LAGOS – The outcome of last Saturday’s governorship election in Bayelsa State has continued to amaze a lot of political observers, who never thought that the All Progressives Congress (APC) could ever break through into that oil-rich state. The Bayelsa victory was unexpected because no one had thought the APC could grab the state from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a development which had increased to 19, the number of states being controlled by the APC. Also, the Bayelsa episode has shown that the era of godfatherism and imposition, especially by outgoing governors, is gradually finding its way out of Nigerian politics. All efforts by Seriake Dickson, the outgoing governor of the state, to impose Duoye Diri, his anointed candidate on the people, failed, thereby giving the APC candidate, David Lyon, a smooth ride. The 2019 general elections also witnessed similar experiences in Imo, Ogun and Oyo States, where Rochas Okorocha, Ibikune Amosun and Abiola Ajimobi, all failed in their bids to install their preferred candidates, Uche Nwosu, Adekunle Akinlade and Adebayo Adelabu, respectively. Before the 2019 general elections, former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, in his bid to impose Kolapo Olusola, forced the state’s electorate to re-elect Kayode Fayemi and the attempt by Olusegun Mimiko to impose Eyitayo Jegede also failed as the people went for Rotimi Akeredolu. Senator Bukola Saraki and former governor of Kwara State, AbdulFatah Ahmed, also failed in their bids to impose Rasaq Atunwa on the people of the state. Godfatherism has been an attribute in Nigerian politics since the return of democracy in 1999. It has been the new style for political imposition. The imposition of candidates has taken so much time and political space in Nigeria, and this has continued to bedevil the country from progressing beyond the godfathers’ allowed capacity. From the late Lamidi Adedibu in Oyo State, to the Igbinedions in Edo, these states were once under the influence of godafatherism. However, some politicians have attempted and successfully dislodged godfathers in their respective domain. But, whether they are not a new set of godfathers is a question for another day. Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), was the first major politician to dismantle the monstrous cat called godfatherism in Edo State. Though, he didn’t do it mainly because he is strong, agile and mentally positioned to fight the Igbinedions who were then controlling the state. He did it because the entire state was tired of being contrived to a single position continually, with their faith of growth and development unknown. Oshiomhole was able to succeed in demolishing the godfather’s stronghold in Edo State because the people needed urgent change in their political destiny. They needed to inhale fresh air of relieve, economic growth and political freedom. Hence, Oshiomhole enjoyed that maximum support and was able to dethrone the godfather, Gabriel Igbinedion, from his exalted high place during those years. In Kano State, which has the second-biggest number of registered voters in the country, it was believed that Rabiu Kwankwaso, a former governor, has built a loyal and dedicated followership, to the extent that the people were so certain that any candidate that gets his blessing is guaranteed to win any election. He even has his own political fan club, known as the Kwankwasiyya movement, whose members are easily recognisable in their uniform of red caps and white gowns. In the 2019 election, Kwankwaso, who dumped the APC for the PDP, backed Abba Kabiru Yusuf, after falling out with the state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, his former ally whom he personally made governor in 2015. But since Ganduje became governor, he got locked in a bitter dispute with Kwankwaso, a feud that got so rancorous that for some time, Kwankwaso avoided the city of Kano. The case is not so different in Lagos State, as the two past governors, Babatunde Fashola and Akinwunmi Ambode, who ruled after Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, tried at one point or the other to dethrone their godfather who was believed to have imposed them against the wish of the generality. Unlike Oshiomhole, both Fashola and Ambode couldn’t succeed in deposing Tinubu because of their little knowledge of politics. However, the governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, sometime in May this year, claimed that he defeated and retired four political godfathers in Kaduna State, saying the feat could be replicated anywhere, including Lagos State. El-Rufai argued that godfathers existed only on paper or in the minds of the people, adding that the key to defeating them was in going directly to the people. He, however, admitted that defeating godfathers required time and hard work. The governor spoke in Ikoyi, Lagos, at an event organised by the Bridge Club tagged, “An evening with His Excellency Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, Governor of Kaduna State.” In his main speech, El-Rufai had encouraged the club members, who are businessmen, not to shy away from politics, saying it was more important than making money as bad politics could mess up their businesses. El-Rufai said Nigeria had permanently remained a country of potential because good and competent people had distanced themselves from politics. However, during the question and answer session, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and three-time commissioner in Lagos State, Muiz Banire, while noting that godfatherism was one of the drawbacks for professionals and businessmen who might want to go into politics, asked El-Rufai how godfathersim could be dealt with. Responding, El-Rufai said, “Godfatherism. This is Lagos. Let me tell you something sir; you know, Kaduna State used to be like that. There were three or four politicians in Kaduna that you could not become anything unless you had them on your side. Those were the godfathers of Kaduna politics and you had to carry them along and you know, the three words, ‘carry them along’ mean paying them regularly. “But we chose a different path and the long and short of it now is that after this election in 2019, we have retired all of them; we had to.” El-Rufai added that the fact that only one million out of the six million registered voters in Lagos voted in the last general elections was an opportunity to end godfathership in the state. He said, “Here in Lagos, you have over six million registered voters, only about a million voted (in 2019 general elections); five million did not vote. If I want to run for governor of Lagos, I will start now. I will commission a study to know why those five million registered voters did not vote; where do they go on election day? “Then I will start visiting them for the next four years. I will try and get just two million of them to come and vote for me; I will defeat any godfather. The key is to go to the people. The card reader and the biometric register have given us the tools to connect directly with the people. I assure you if you do that for the next four years, connecting with the people; the tin godfather, you will retire him or her permanently. But it is hard work; it requires three to four years of hard work. So, if you want to run in 2023, you should start now.” On the question of money, El-Rufai said it would require about N2 billion to do the job, which he said the businessmen could provide. “With about N2 billion, if you start, you see these guys with black ties, they will give you the N2 billion. Many of the godfathers are either on paper or in the mind of people in politics. They are defeatable. We retired four of them in Kaduna State within a four-year time and they are gone. One of them boasted that he put me in the government house and he would take me out,” he added. Former national chairman of the APC, John Odigie-Oyegun in an interview, once said, “Let me once again try to make it distinct: those who enthrone themselves, somebody called it ‘mentoring.’ Mentoring is very good, mentoring is very positive, mentoring does not imply that after you have helped somebody and the person learns the ropes, it does not mean that you have a permanent rope tied around his waist. You let him be, let him come for advice. If he doesn’t come for advice, fine. Let him make his mistakes and learn from them. “But, godfatherism, the unfortunate bane of our politics, is the one that seeks to govern from the outside. Before decisions are made, you must be consulted. Before appointments are made, you must be asked for your list. Before the person you have ‘god-fathered’ turns right or left, he must ask you which the correct road to take is; otherwise, there are consequences. My state today, is a good example. Look at the kind of situation it is creating. That is godfatherism and it’s very different from mentoring, which is absolutely beautiful. It is not the same thing as godfatherism.” Speaking on how the menace could be dealt with, the Oyegun added, “Well, I think the only thing is that, everybody believes he is a champion, until it is proven that they are not that much. It is inevitability. It has proven itself repeatedly. You can count everywhere where this (godfatherism) has happened. There has never been one; I can’t think of a state where it has gone very, very well. So, maybe experience will be the only teacher that they need so they will understand that being accepted because of being respected is much more enduring than being accepted out of fear. Some stakeholders in Bayelsa have continued to pour out their minds on why they worked assiduously to end the reign of the PDP in the state. The family of late former governor of Bayelsa State, Chief Diepreye Alameisegha, said it was because the incumbent state governor disappointed the people of the state. Speaking under the auspices of Alamcoism Movement (AM), the family alleged that the Dickson insulted the late Alameisegha and disrespected Ijaw elders in most of his dealings and utterances. Director-General of the Movement, Ziriworiten Alameisegha, who spoke in Yenagoa, the state capital, lamented that the PDP abandoned the template of development and empowerment laid down by the late governor. “The PDP government disappointed Alameisegha’s family. The Alamcoism endorsed Seriake Dickson, but at the end of the day what did he do? He disappointed the family, insulted Alamcoism. So, we decided that since he failed to respect elders, we should teach him a lesson,” he said. He called on Dickson and the PDP to shelve the idea of going to court to challenge the victory of Lyon saying instead of wasting the state money on litigation, they should channel the resources to infrastructural development. In the same vein, Ebilade, the second son of the late Alameisegha, commended the people for rejecting all the offers made to them by the PDP and opted to vote Lyon as the right candidate. He said, “I told the PDP that their money can’t counter the Alamcoism. We are around the eight local government areas and they saw the result in the eight local government areas. We won six local government areas but in Sagbama, Dickson’s local government area, there was no election. “In my mother’s village at Ogoibiri, there was no material. It was hijacked by the Sagbama PDP government. So, Douye Diri only won one local government area and even in that council, we divided the votes. “People should know that Bayelsans are behind David Lyon and even the court will do nothing when everybody is on the same page. The court is not bigger than Bayelsa State. The whole state has decided and has chosen a candidate. “We want to advise all the PDP people to reserve that money that they want to use for case and come and build one industry to employ more citizens because we need more development in this state. They should forget about that court.” Dickson, on his part, described Saturday’s election in the state as a military coup. He claimed that the election was a charade and a carefully orchestrated plan to forcefully take over Bayelsa state towards entrenching a one-party system. He further alleged that former President Goodluck Jonathan was used by the APC against the PDP in the election, maintaining that the endorsement of Lyon, the governor-elect, by Jonathan was regrettable and a part of the ploy by the APC to strategically take over the state. While addressing a world press conference in Yenagoa on Tuesday, Dickson stated that PDP would challenge the result of November 16 Bayelsa governorship election in court. According to him, the PDP did not lose the election as it was characterised by violence and widespread malpractices, which were carefully documented. “Our candidate, Sen. Douye Diri and the party chairman have been speaking about the charade called election that took place in Bayelsa on Saturday, and the invasion of our state by security forces. “The dehumanisation of our people and how the majority of the areas and in places, where our people were denied the right to vote for the candidate of their choice. The story is all out there that what took place in the state on Nov. 16 was not a democratic election. “So, today, I’m here to add my voice to all that has been said already, and it was so brazen, it has never been like this in this state before,” he said. Dickson added: “I know that in 2015, we went through a very though time, there was display of federal might, but at least, it was not as bad as this.” He said that the perception that he alienated PDP stakeholders including the former president was unfounded adding that the primary election that produced the PDP candidate was credible. “Jonathan remains my Oga (boss) and I respect him, but there are lots of efforts by certain interest to create a rift between us, there is no politician that has been there for the former president than me. “He has also helped me but it is unfortunate that I am being misconstrued in this matter of the election, I tried to meet Jonathan for 16 times and he opted to support a candidate that does not wish me well. “I will soon write my memoirs and people will have a fair view of what happened, the visit of some APC governors to Jonathan who congratulated the APC candidate without congratulating the candidate of his party. It is strategic for APC leaders to use Jonathan to legitimise the illegitimacy that happened on Saturday,” Dickson said. Some political analysts, who spoke on the issue, believe that the country is indeed moving away from politics of imposition but maintained that godfatherism is not something that can ever be detached from Nigerian political space. A former member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Ipoola Omisore, said, “Godfatherism still lives, what seems to be suffering or failing is imposition by outgoing governors. And the reason why most of these governors are always trying to impose their choice of candidates is just to cover their tracks. They always forget that the big masquerades that created them are still waiting at the wings. So, for me, nothing too serious has happened to godfatherism.” Dr. Jide Johnson, Deputy Provost, Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), Ogba, Lagos, was of the opinion that each state has its own dynamics when it comes to the issue of godfatherism. “We can’t come to that conclusion that godfatherism is fading away even though the people are rejecting imposition. “Looking at how the incumbent of governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, he was backed by some godfathers even though he was not supported by Amosun. Even the governor-elect of Bayelsa, Lyon, is a product of a certain godfather. What happened in Bayelsa was that a godfather fought another godfather out of the party and that was why the PDP lost the state to the APC. “How did Yahaya Bello get elected in an election he did not participate in 2015? It was through some godfathers. But in all, there are lessons that have been learnt, you don’t impose a candidate against the people’s consensus,” Johnson added.