AWKA – Mrs. Chiazor Chia g h a n a , wife of Emeka Chiaghana, an Engineer and staff of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, has raised the alarm over the whereabouts of her husband 17 days after his abduction. Mr. Chiaghana who hails from Nibo in Awka South Council area was allegedly whisked away from his Nibo residence on October 25, 2019 by unknown persons. His wife’s anxiety arose from the fact that since her husband was abducted; his abductors are yet to contact the family. In an interview with journalists, Chiazor said she had been emotionally and physically devastated since the ugly incident took place. She said she was further worried over the silence of the suspected abductors since then, and called on public spirited individuals with useful information to her husband’s whereabouts to avail such to the family. Narrating how the incident happened, she said, “My husband had dropped my kids and I from the hospital around 9.15 p.m. and told me he needed to go drop his friend off. “He came back around 10.45 p.m. and was about to open the gate when my mother-in-law who was upstairs saw two men jump out of the nearby farm and abducted him. “He was immediately driven away by the abductors to an unknown destination and that was the last time we saw him.” Chiazor said she quickly reported the matter officially to the Police and local vigilante operatives in the community the following day. Visibly devastated Chiazor described the husband as a simple and honest man and expressed optimism of his safe return. He added, “My husband’s absence since over three weeks has been devastating. He has been the pillar of the family and knows his responsibility as the head. “We have three kids; the first is just seven years. We’ve not even started training them. But I have absolute faith in God that he’s still alive and believe in the prayers of the brethren.” Nephew to the victim, Sunday Meniru also an engineer, said several efforts have been made by the family, friends and associates of Chiaghana towards the rescue, but regretted that none of the efforts had yielded desired results. He alleged that some of the efforts were being scuttled. Also reacting to the incident, a friend of the victim, Tobenna Obiano, described the victim as homely and friendly who was never known for trouble. “The most disturbing part is that his captors are yet to communicate anyone, either to state about why they took him away, or even make any demand. “While I commend the men of the Nigerian Police Force, particularly the Anambra State command on their efforts thus far, I respectfully implore them to please intensify efforts and help the now troubled family, league of friends, his colleagues, Nibo Community and Anambra State to rescue Emeka,” he pleaded. When contacted, the acting Public Relations Officer of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Mrs. Ene Chika, confirmed the incident, describing it as worrisome.She said the institution had been liaising with security agencies in the state towards ensuring his immediate and safe release. Ene said, “The university is aware of the incident. We are deeply worried and concerned about it. We are in daily contact with the security agencies on the matter.”