Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), in this interview, speaks on why his committee is canvassing a fresh term for Ibrahim Magu, Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Bullion vans petition and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: Why is your commission passionate about another term for Ibrahim Magu, Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)? We are passionate about excellence; we are passionate about good performance; we are passionate about merit, we are passionate about productivity, we are passionate about courage and we are passionate about excellence. That is what Magu represents and we know the danger of going to look for something elsewhere. As the Yorubas will say ‘what is the point in you going to Sokoto (state) to look for something that is already in your sokoto (trouser pocket)? We don’t want any mistake to be made about this issue so that we may not suffer any setback in the fight against corruption. Given your closeness to President Muhammadu Buhari, don’t you think those who are already lobbying to replace Magu will not be happy with your open declaration of support for him? Those lobbying are usually unworthy people. These are people who want to cash in on other people’s achievements and they will get there and mess up, bring down the organisation, compromise themselves and bow to all sorts of moneybags who have a lot of skeletons in their cupboards and huge amounts of money to dispense and then sell the whole country, sell the man who is supposed to straighten up things. These are the people who are lobbying. Let me tell you this; anybody who is good will not lobby for a position. It is the unworthy who lobbies for positions because they know they don’t deserve it and they have no conscience. They think they have to be there at any cost so as to run down the organisations and the institutions. These are the people lobbying to become the EFCC chairman. If there is any honesty or integrity among Nigerians, no one should think of replacing Magu until he completes his second term. No one should think of it. Anybody doing that is doing it in bad faith; he is doing it against the interest of this country and for his personal aggrandizement at the expense of all of us. Given his experience in the eighth senate, do you think the current senate will confirm Magu if he is presented again by President Muhammadu Buhari? The present senate leadership is a very totally different one compared to what we had in the eighth senate. This current one is made up of very decent and highly principled people; people who want to serve this country, who believe in good governance, people who are ready to sacrifice for this nation and are objective in judging human performance. I can assure you that this present Senate will be glad to confirm Magu if he is re-presented by the President. One of the reasons the eighth senate gave for not confirming Magu was the Department of State Services (DSS) report. Don’t you think the DSS can still present the same report to scuttle his confirmation? That report by the DSS is a disreputable report. It is nonsensical because the last time they did that report, they wrote two reports at the same time; one recommending him for confirmation and the other report running him down. It just shows you that it is an ill-motivated report and there is something behind it somewhere. I don’t see the DSS under the new leadership repeating that type of terrible action, which is inimical to the progress of our nation. I don’t see them doing that again if Magu is put forward for confirmation. Some critics have alleged that investigation by the EFCC under Magu is one-sided. They claimed he has been going after the opposition but has failed to act on the petition written against the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu over the two bullion vans sighted in his residence during the conduct of 2015 general elections. What is your take on this? If there is no credence in the petitions, what is there to investigate? You know Nigerians are very adept at writing petitions. They like frivolous petitions just as they like litigations. If you know how many petitions are thrown out at the NJC, you will be amazed. The Nigerian minds tend to be very vicious in terms of these things. They don’t like Tinubu, so they must write a petition against him, a stupid baseless petition. When that petition is not acted upon by reasonable men, then they allege there is bias. My view is that there is no basis for those petitions. There is no merit in those petitions and that is why the EFCC is not acting on them. They said they sighted bullion vans in front of his house. Is that an offence? It makes no sense to me. If a bullion van comes to my house now to deliver anything, does that make me a criminal? Even if it is money and it is my money, what is wrong in that? So, I don’t see anything in those petitions. They are just written in bad faith and hatred and they can’t expect the EFCC to join them in this baseless hatred of other people and pursue a vicious campaign of persecution and calumny just because they live in a state of permanent hatred of people who are working hard for the transformation of this country towards development and progress. Tinubu was already very rich before he became governor. He is not a man who became rich after he joined the government. He worked in the petroleum sector. I recalled that during the course of his fight with Abacha, he had to escape for his life in order to join so many other people like Anthony Enahoro, Wole Soyinka, and many other pro-democracy activists. Tinubu was the one funding quite a lot of the organisations and those staying abroad. So, he has always been a man of means. It will be ridiculous that having come back to the country, won’t he invest his money in various ventures? So, no one should be surprised that he is a rich man. All I know is that he is rich from his own hard work, investments and, therefore, he should be given the benefit of the doubt instead of being subjected to the persecution, which some people want him to be subjected to.