The Lagos State Government has sealed Multipak Nigeria Limited, a plastic producing factory, for violation of safety rules and regulations, poor house-keeping and lack of signage, which led to the death of a worker. Mr. Lanre Mojola, Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC), made this known to newsmen on Sunday. The company is located at Plot F8, Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun, Lagos, saying that signage is a graphic design, symbols, emblems or words, used especially for identification or as a means of giving directions or warning. Mojola said the factory was sealed following the Lagos State Government’s declaration of zero tolerance for factories and private organisations that violate safety rules and regulations. “LASG seals off Multipak factory for violation of safety rules and regulations as well as poor house-keeping and lack of signage. “The poor house-keeping led to the untimely death of Mr. Femi Olatunde, a factory worker, who got his head stuck while operating one of the machines. “Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration is passionate about safety of lives and property of the citizenry. “On no account should any factory operate without putting in place safety equipment, quality house-keeping, signage, good wiring system and a clean environment devoid of hazards to the lives of workers and visitors, ’’ Mojola said. He, however, urged organisations and individuals to embrace best practices and international safety operations to prevent fatal incidents that endangered lives. The LSSC boss said that safety of lives and property was a collective responsibility and warned that factories that violated safety rules would be severely sanctioned. A statement issued by the Lagos State Police Command signed by the police image-maker, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Bala Elkana, made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT said the deceased died after allegedly falling inside a melting hot pot. He said a 50-year-old staff of Landcraft Industry Nigeria  Limited located at Odogunyan Industrial Estate, Ikorodu, simply identified as Sunday Usenobong,  has been reported dead after falling inside a melting hot pot. It was gathered that the incident occurred while he was operating the company’s machine consequently, the victim died on the spot. Elkana said, the Homicide detectives of the command have visited the scene and the corpse of the deceased had since been evacuated and deposited at the public morgue for autopsy while investigation is ongoing. In another development, a 35-year-old man Olatunde Femi, was trapped while operating a molding machine. Elkana who also confirmed the story said the incident occurred on November 19, while the deceased was operating a molding machine at Multipak Nigeria Limited located at Plot F28, Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun, area of Lagos. Elkana said he was trapped while operating the machine and died on the spot. He said the Homicide detectives visited the scene and the corpses of the victim was evacuated and deposited at a public morgue for autopsy adding that investigation is ongoing.