ABUJA – Federal Government has urged the private sector to be involved in the commmercialisation of research results by converting them into products and services for the market place. Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology, disclosed this in a presentation he made at the summit on ‘’ Leveraging the Digital Economy for trade investment’ in Abuja at the weekend. He, therefore, appealed to the organised private sector to key in by playing an important role in the commercialisation of research results. He said the Federal Government would utilise technology incubation through incubation centres spread across the country to train and empower new entrepreneurs through technological start-up. According to Onu, there is encouraging result on this effort as some of these start-ups have continued to grow into large enterprises over the years. He said: “We have laid the foundation to help us get a new generation of entrepreneurs and business men and women that will use technologies developed in Nigeria, to compete favourably within the comity of the nations.” While saying that Nigeria lost out in the last three industrial revolutions, Onu stressed the need for the country to participate fully in the fourth industrial revolution. “We are employing science, technology and innovation to accelerate economic growth, in a way to achieve increased productivity, competiveness, job and wealth creation, poverty reduction in an effort to achieve the happiness of Nigerians ‘’ he added. The ministry, he added, had in the past four years developed five policies to enable Nigeria attained new development models induced by the new digital economy and remain competitive. The policies he said included  science, technology and innovation roadmap 2017-2030, the National Strategies for Competiveness in raw materials and products development in Nigeria, the Executive Order 5, Nigerian policy on leather and leather products and the recent national policy on the use of methanol value chain in Nigeria. “The roadmap is a compass showing the way for ministries, departments and agencies of government should do to help transform the economy from depending mainly on commodities to dependence on knowledge that is innovation driven. “We are vigorously pursuing commercialisation of research results so that they can be converted into products and services that would be available in the market place,” he added. With the largest population in Africa and one of the largest in the world coupled with the largest market and economy in Africa, Onu stressed the need for Nigeria to grow her economy so as to feed, clothe, house, secure and enhance the standard of living of the people.