ASABA – Nigerians have witnessed seasons of massive fear and agony over security threats, especially through kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism, arms proliferation, child theft, attacks by herdsmen and sea piracy over a lingering period of time. While this menace has consequently sent several innocent souls to early grave, today, thousands are battling with debilitating health and all forms of disabilities. However, in order to cushion this effect and bring sanity to the system, the governor of Delta State, in collaboration with his counterparts in the South-South region, endorsed the proposal by the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) for community policing as panacea for the persisting security challenges in the country. At a one-day conference held at Asaba on Tuesday November 26, titled ‘Strategic Partnership for Effective Community Policing in the South-South Zone,’ the South-South Nigeria Police Regional Security Summit was described by critics as a welcome development. Though, it was gathered that all the governors of the South-South region declared their support for grassroots policing after due consideration, only the host, Governor Okowa and Godwin Obaseki, Edo State governor, were physically present at the epoch making event. However, others from Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom, Rivers and Cross River were duly represented. Other institutions that graced the occasion included the traditional rulers, top government functionaries, organised labour, federal and state legislators, local government council chairmen, vigilante groups, religious leaders, Nigeria Union of Journalists, among others, in the region. In a communiqué at the end of the summit, participants, including the governors, Inspector-General of Police, Mr Abubakar Adamu, said that the motive of community policing which hinged on integrating the grassroots into security management across the country was commendable. They said that the summit represented a significant redefining policing and security arrangements across the country, adding that current challenges were and should be the concern of not just government, but every citizen. Also in the communiqué signed by the IGP and representatives of the governments of Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo and Rivers, and read by Gov. Okowa, the participants urged the IGP to design training pattern for vigilantes and neighbourhood watchers to bridge the personnel gap in the Police Force. According to them, the ad-hoc security operatives should be suitably equipped and funded and their operations should be subject to direct supervision and control by the Police. “Moreover, the IGP should take further proactive steps to facilitate an appropriate legal framework to enhance the operations of the vigilante groups and similar bodies,’’ the communiqué added. They also urged state governments in the zone to “pursue job and wealth creation as a high priority as unemployment among youths is one of the disposing factors to criminality.” Adamu, before the communiqué had highlighted measures by the force to strengthen security, particularly in the South-South region, soliciting the support of the governors and other stakeholders in the region in efforts at strengthening internal and communal security. He hinted that the ‘Safer Highway’ Motorised Patrol Scheme and ‘Safer City’ would soon be re-launched. He said the force has acquired additional fleet of vehicles equipped with Police Smart Surveillance (CCTV Camera-on-the-move) for the surveillance and security of oil pipelines in the region. According to Adamu, “I can assure you of our determination to continue to maximally deploy all our resources and unique capabilities toward mitigating crimes band addressing fear of crime across the country in general and in the South-South zone, in particular. “This is because the South-South geo-political zone, as the economic nerve centre of the country, is strategic to our national security as well as global security. Hence the sustenance of peace and security in the region is a critical national security objective.” The host governor, Senator Okowa, in his welcome address, said although militancy in the Niger Delta has abated, the zone now faces emerging security threats that require fresh approaches. Okowa said trust is a critical component for constructing a strategic and effective partnership for community policing, adding that relationship between the police and the average citizen is marred “by distrust, suspicion and even outright resentment.” He urged for cooperation between security agencies, adding that sharing intelligence and joint operations are necessary. Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, representatives of governors Emmanuel Udom of Akwa-Ibom State and Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, in their separate remarks, were unanimous about the prevalence of herdsmen menace, human trafficking, drug abuse, cultism, child theft, illegal migration,  thuggery, among others, as prevailing crimes in the region. The governors advocated for the need to address unemployment, create wealth, boost agriculture, revive technical education as well as adopt community policing as some of the measures to adequately reduce crimes in the zone. Three traditional rulers including the chairman of the Delta Traditional Rulers Council, Obi Emmanuel Efeizomor, his Bayelsa and Rivers States counterparts, King Alfred Diete-Spiff and King Douglas (Jaja of Opobo) respectively, also made submissions at the summit. The zonal security summit was the fourth in the series with earlier ones held in Katsina for North-West, Ibadan for the South-West, and Maiduguri for the North-East.