LAGOS – Who is the leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara state? This is one question that has pitched supporters of Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture and the state governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq against one another, a situation many believe may not augur well for the party as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is already waiting in the wings to benefit from the crisis. Though the gladiators have been trying to keep the issue from public glare, some party members who believed the situation may affect the party’s chances and governance in the state have been speaking out, calling for the intervention of the national leadership of the party. Prior to the 2019 general election, Lai Mohammed, by virtue of his position as Minister was regarded as the undisputed leader of the APC in Kwara state. He was also given the recognition based on the fact that he had been a member of the APC since the days of the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD), under whose platform he contested the 2003 governorship election in Kwara state. He lost the election to Bukola Saraki who ran under the PDP platform. AD later became the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), one of the parties that coalesced to form APC. Stakeholders who are queuing behind Lai Mohammed also argued that he has been the sole financier of the party in the state and stood against the then ruling party in the state and its leader. He also spearheaded the ‘Otoge’ movement which ended the Saraki dynasty in the state. Under his leadership, aside winning the governorship election, candidates of the APC in Kwara won all the three Senatorial seats, all six House of Representatives seats in the state and cleared all 24 House of assembly seats. However, shortly after he was sworn-in, our correspondent gathered that Governor Abdulrazak decided to assume the leadership position of the state, claiming he is the new leader of the party in the state based on his position as the governor. It was also gathered that since his emergence, AbdulRazaq has sidelined party executive, carrying out policies without recourse to the party that brought him to power. Our correspondent gathered that aside sidelining party executives in the state of funds, the governor did not consult the party in the compilation of the list of his commissioner-nominees sent to the state House of Assembly for confirmation. In order to take full control of the party leadership, the governor was also alleged to have done everything possible to block Lai Mohammed’s return as Minster as well as plotting the removal of Bashir Bolarinwa, the APC chairman in the state and replace him with one of his loyalists. Speaking with our correspondent, one of the excos who asked not to be named said the governor is merely dreaming and deceiving himself if he thinks he is the leader of the party in the state. According to him, there is nowhere in the party’s constitution that says you are automatically the party leader once you assume the position of governor. “Let the governor continue to delude himself that he is the party leader in the state. Can Governor Aminu Masari come out today and say he is the party leader in Katsina where President Muhammadu Buhari comes from? Can Dapo Abiodun claim he is the party leader in Ogun state where we have people like Aremo Segun Osoba? Can Babajide Sanwo- Olu claim that because he is the governor of Lagos state, he is the party leader in the state?”. “The people in Kwara APC know who their leaders are. I don’t want to describe the governor as an ingrate but that is what he is. We have only one leader in Kwara state and that is the current Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who is recognised both in Kwara APC and at the national level”. “Nobody can deny the role he (Lai Mohammed) played in making APC the ruling party in the state today especially in the build up to the Otoge movement that made Governor AbdulRazaq what he is today”. “Governor AbdulRazaq only contributed 10 percent to the structures that brought him in. How many supporters can he bring out in Kwara APC before now? So, if the governor thinks he can just become the party leader in the state by fiat, I think he is just deceiving himself. The earlier he realises that, the better for him” However, responding to the claim, one of the governor’s loyalists who spoke on condition of anonymity said Governor Abdulrazak is the leader of the party in Kwara state based on the position of the party’s constitution. According to him, any other person laying claim to the position of party leader is nothing but an interloper. “The constitution of the party, APC is very clear. In a presidential system, where a party produces the president, the president automatically becomes the leader of the party. In a state election, where a party has produced the governor, the governor is the leader of the party not any other person”. “We have some situation in some other states where another person is the leader of the party where they have a sitting governor, but it does not necessarily make it the position of the party’s constitution. So, to that extent, any other person who claims to be the leader of the party when that person is not the governor is just an interloper, and that is according to the constitution of the party”. “So, there is nothing bad if the governor not just want to govern but also wants to have a political clout to govern smoothly, then it necessary for him to take full control of the party machinery. No governor will want to bee distracted by the same party that brought it to power”. Another loyalist of the governor also accused the minister of sponsoring smear campaign against the governor. “The minister has been sponsoring media attacks against the governor. They have been sponsoring news item on negative things such as garbage on the streets while closing their eyes to the positive things he has been doing. We will soon see where all this ends” The crisis deepened last week when the state Deputy Governor, Kayode Alabi, received the newly constituted executive of the party in the Ifelodun Local Government Area of the state which had been disowned by the state Chairman of the party, Bashir Bolarinwa. The Ifelodun LGA of the APC few days ago at a special congress, removed the council Chairman, Shillo Awobimpe, and his deputy, Mallam Baba Malik, over alleged misappropriation of funds and replaced them with Abdulateef Quadri and Mallam Nasiru Bello, as chairman and vice chairman, respectively. But the state chairman, in a signed statement on Wednesday, denounced any factional executive of the party in council and affirmed the leadership of Awobimpe. He also emphasised that all the local government party officers who took the oath of office on September 15, 2018, remained the authentic officers of the party at their respective local governments. However, the deputy governor received the new executive of the party from the area of the state led by its new chairman, Abdulateef Quadri, on Thursday in his office during a courtesy call and charged members of the party to be loyal to the party and the government of Governor Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq. But Bolarinwa, in a statement, said, “In the absence of a notice to that effect, all subsisting structures of the party from the ward to the local and state levels remain in place and sacrosanct.” He also called on party members in the state to “refrain from any action or activity capable of breaching the peace of the state.” He also said security operatives had been duly informed of the activities of those bent on destroying the party because of personal interests.