ABUJA – The chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Air Force, Hon. Shehu Koko (APC. Kebbi), has charged recently promoted senior officers of the Nigerian Air Force to prove themselves to Nigerians in the defence of the country’s territorial integrity. Besides, he congratulated the management of the Air Force for carrying out the promotion exercise, describing it as a morale booster that will encourage more commitment and dedication to duties. Recall the Air Force Council had on November 9, 2019 approved the promotion of 99 senior officers to higher ranks. According to a release by the Air Force on its official portal, the affected senior officers comprise 13 Air Commodores promoted to the ranks of Air Vice Marshal (AVM), 35 Group Captains (Gp. Capts) elevated to the ranks of Air Commodores, while 51 Wing Commanders were promoted to the ranks of Group Captains. The House Committee chairman in a statement issued by his office on Sunday, therefore, congratulated the recipients of the promotion, urging them to see same as a call to higher service of their fatherland. “I want to on behalf of members of the House Committee on Air Force, join the Chief of Air Staff and the entire management and staff of the Nigerian Air Force to congratulate all the officers who have been affected by this promotion exercise. “It is a thing of joy to see officers and men of our security outfits being appreciated by their superiors who deem them worthy of elevation to the next level of their careers. “The committee also wish to note here that to whom much is given, much is equally expected, which is why they must see their promotions as a call to higher service of their fatherland. “They must use these new offices and ranks to advance the course of our national security like never before. Nigerians look up to them to keep them safe, and those of us in the House will do our bid in ensuring that necessary provisions are made to enhance their operations,” Hon Shehu said. According to a post on the Nigerian Air Force official portal, the ceremony to decorate the beneficiaries with their new ranks would be announced at a later date.