Senator Douye Diri, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has noted with dismay the brutal killing of no fewer than eight members of the party by alleged thugs of the All Progressives Congress (APC) during a botched rally in Nembe Ogbolomabiri on Wednesday. Senator Diri, in an interview with newsmen in Yenagoa, described the killings as barbaric and demonic, and prayed for the repose of the souls of those that were murdered. Among the dead was the driver of the OB Van of Radio Bayelsa, Simon Onu, who was gunned down beside his vehicle. The late Onu from Otuasega community in Ogbia Local Government Area was a serving Committee Development Committee vice chairman in the community. Senator Diri stated that members of the party were ambushed by a militant group. He said there was an unprovoked gruesome attack on party members which resulted in the death of some members, while others who sustained injuries were receiving medical attention at Government House Hospital, Federal Medical Centre, Yenagoa, and Government Hospital in Nembe. Senator Diri recalled that similar event occurred in the area during the last National Assembly election. He stated that many people in the area were still in IDP camps while perpetrators of the dastardly act then were still walking freely on the streets of Yenagoa. The governorship candidate, therefore, called on the security operatives to ensure that the perpetrators were brought to book. Giving further account of the incident, the governorship candidate said: “When we arrived at Nembe, we saw our billboards on the floor and that was the signal that all was not well. “We proceeded to Nembe, Nembe was our second port of call, our first port of call was Oluasiri; we got to the waterfront and kept most of our party members behind since Oluasiri was a riverine journey. “And so we kept them behind with the hope that once we are through with Oluasiri, we will return to Nembe for our final rally. “We arrived Oluasiri only to receive a distress call that our party members were under attack. “Some had been gunned down, lives were lost, our vehicles vandalized, and so we couldn’t hold our rally at Oluasiri; we had to return immediately to Nembe. “This team was led by the state party chairman, Moses Cleopas, and my humble self, the candidate of the party. And we felt we could not leave without knowing what had happened to our party members at Nembe. “So, we drove into Nembe, from the waterside we got the signal, the soldiers were there and they advised that the shooting was still going on, killings were still going on, the nailings were still going on, for innocent party members who went to Nembe to canvass for votes. “We were advised to drive slowly and the few security escorts that went with us to Oluasiri also came down with their arms and they were moving while we were advised to be inside the vehicle and in that movement, we succeeded slowing in moving out of Nembe, we left Nembe and knowing what has happened, we came straight to the hospital. “We’ve gone to the hospital, we’ve seen our party faithful gasping for breath, suffering from gunshots, not one, not two, but an uncountable number. “As we speak, most of our party members are missing, we cannot account for them. “We condemn it. It is sad, a thing we never thought would happen, we have been raising the alarm long before today. “We call on the security agencies, in particular, the commissioner of police, the director of state security to immediately swing into action and arrest these hoodlums, these killers. “We also call for justice, and that Nembe, as we have raised alarm before today, is a hot spot, and without an immediate action, election in Nembe cannot hold. “Nembe should be seen as the red flag zone where the security agents must immediately move in to ensure that these killers are arrested, where we have it on good authority that about four of those who allegedly killed were arrested by the soldiers at Nembe. “It is at the juncture that we want to also commend and appreciate the soldiers who swung into action and saved the lives of many of our party faithful.”