 All residents within four miles of the conflagration at the TPC Group chemical plant in Port Neches, which erupted early on Wednesday, were told to evacuate in an order from Jefferson County Judge Jeff Branick.   @MakensieTVNews Here’s the moment another explosion happened at the TPC plant in Port Neches. @12NewsNow   886 Communities affected by the mandatory evacuation order include Port Neches, Nederland, Groves, Beauxart Gardens, Central Gardens as well as portions of Port Arthur.  WTF!!! A third explosion has just rocked the TPC Group Plant in #PortNeches #Texas #USA …and the black smoke rises to the sky…   5 At least one powerful secondary explosion rocked the plant on Wednesday afternoon amid ongoing efforts to extinguish the fire, which has been burning for over 12 hours already. Collapsing flaring stacks at the facility pose risk of additional explosions, according to Jefferson County Emergency Management Coordinator Michael White.   @KBTXRusty EVACUATIONS EXTENDED: There is now a mandatory evacuation of Port Neches, Groves, Nederland, Central Gardens, Beauxart Gardens and the northeast part of Port Arthur. (Video courtesy: @abc13houston )   61 Two employees and one contractor were injured in the initial blast, but all three have been released from hospital after treatment. There were up to 27 workers on site at the time of the incident, according to local officials.  Evacuations now for Port Neches, Groves, and Nederland @12NewsNow   7 A column of black smoke could be seen from 50 miles away by the late afternoon. Residents were advised to avoid black soot emanating from the fire that could be seen floating in the air in areas around the plant.  This is the sky over Port Neches, Texas right now.  28 “The black stuff floating, don’t touch it,” said Troy Monk, who is the director of health safety and security for the TPC Group, in the hours after the initial explosion. Local officials said they would continue to monitor the air quality in the area, and have set up a shelter.