ABUJA – House of Representatives Committee on Air Force has described as unfortunate the crash of Air Force training helicopter in Enugu on Thursday. The Committee Chairman, Koko Shehu, in a statement, thanked God that no life was lost, assuring of the House determination to investigate the remote causes of the incident to avoid future reoccurrence. “The House Committee on Air Force upon hearing the sad incident that occurred on November 14  involving a training Nigeria Air Force Helicopter in Enugu State, wishes to thank God that no life was lost,” Koko Shehu said. According to series of official posts on the NAF Twitter handle, “A training helicopter belonging to the Nigerian Air Force had crashed in Enugu State after returning from a routine exercise. “The report stated that the crash occurred on Thursday with no casualties, even as the cause of the incident is still unknown. The tweet reads, “NAF helicopter suffers mishap upon landing in Enugu”. “The helicopter crashed on landing in Enugu after a routine flight today. Fortunately, there were no fatalities or injuries to any crew member or persons on the ground. “@CAS_AMSadique has directed that a board of inquiry be constituted to determine the cause of the accident. “@NigAirForce continues to solicit the understanding and support of the general public as it daily strives to ensure the security of Nigeria and Nigerians.” However, the committee chairman said, “As members of parliament, particularly the House of Representatives Fommittee on Air Force, we’re disturbed that such incident occurred at a time when the Air Force had assured the parliament and the nation that it was fully prepared to take on insecurity head-on and bring an end to it in collaboration with other sister agencies. “The committee, which has pledged its full support under the leadership of the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, is deeply saddened about this unfortunate situation. “We therefore invite the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, to brief the committee on the immediate and remote causes of the crash.”