Ahead of Saturday’s governorship election in Kogi State, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has vowed to “overrun” the state Governor, Yahaya Bello. PDP said no threats of violence will deter it from ‘overrunning’ Bello and his party, the All Progressives Congress, APC, in all the senatorial zones of the state on Saturday. In a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP also condemned the violent attack on the state secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) by thugs. The statement reads: “As a party, we have on a good authority how Governor Bello and his agents have been threatening the lives of PDP leaders in Kogi Central, all in their failed bid to instill fear on the people and frustrate our campaigns in the area. “However, the PDP cautions Yahaya Bello and his party to note that nothing will stop our party and the peoples’ candidate, Engr. Musa Wada, from campaigning and consolidating our support in Kogi Central and across the state. “The people of Kogi state are on the move with the PDP in their readiness to confront and dismantle the machinations of Yahaya Bello and no amount of violence and death threat can change this resolve. READ ALSO: Kogi Guber: Accept Defeat, APC Tells  PDP, Wada “The PDP calls on the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the military hierarchy to note how Gov Bello is turning Kogi state into a theatre of war and making life unsafe in the state. “Our party draws the attention of security agencies to reports that APC and agents of Governor Yahaya Bello have a training ground for thugs in Kogi Central District, who would be later armed with dangerous weapons to perpetrate violence during the election. “There are also reports that the APC and agents of Yahaya Bello are sewing fake military, police and Civil Defence uniforms to be used by their thugs to cause mayhem during the election. “The PDP, therefore, charges the Inspector General of Police and the military hierarchy to immediately call Yahaya Bello and the APC to order as well as take urgent steps to ensure adequate security to safeguard lives and property in the electioneering time frame of the November 16 election in the state.”