The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has said that the criminal charge against a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke, and other persons indicted for money laundering is ongoing. Wilson Uwujaren, Head, Media and Publicity of the agency, said in a statement made available to Daily Independent Wednesday debunked the story stating that the attention of the commission has been drawn to reports currently circulating in the social media, purporting that the commission had dropped the criminal charge against the former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke, and other persons indicted for money laundering. Uwujaren, said the commission enjoined members of the public to disregard the report which he described as false and misleading. He said, “At no time did the commission withdraw the charge, which is still before Justice Muslim Hassan of the Federal High Court, Lagos. “The only development was that the commission took a prosecutorial decision to split the initial 14-count charge to enable separate arraignment of the defendants following spate of adjournments that prevented the arraignment of the defendants more than one year after the case was listed. “The charges were first filed on November 28, 2018. Since then, every attempt to arraign the defendants had been frustrated by one excuse or the other. In more than four times that the matter was called for arraignment, it was either that Lanre Adesanya was sick and bedridden in a London Hospital or  Stanley Lawson had had a domestic accident and could not appear in court,” he said. The statement further explained further that it was clear that these recurring excuses were ploys to frustrate the arraignment. “To get around this, the commission took a deliberate decision, which was disclosed in open court, to separately prosecute the defendants in different courts. “This explains why the four-count amended charges brought against Dauda Lawal, a former executive director of First Bank, did not include other defendants, except the two who are at large (Diezani Alison-Madueke and Ben Otti). And the ingredient of the offence stated therein only pertains to Lawal’s involvement in the alleged crime, which is the receipt of $25 million from the $153 million 2015 Peoples Democratic Party presidential election slush fund. “The non-inclusion of other defendants in the original charge in the amended four-count charge does not mean that they have been exonerated by the commission of any criminal allegation.