The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has said its operatives have intercepted a truck loaded with 292 50kg bags of imported rice concealed under a load of sugarcane in order to beat the the security operatives. Lomba Benjamin, Public Relations Officer, Niger/Kogi Area Command of the NCS, who disclosed this in a statement Thursday made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the Iveco 14-tyre truck with two different registration plate numbers XD 146 LSD (in front) and XD 146 SLD behind, was intercepted along Dikko-Suleja-Abuja Road of Niger State by one of the patrol teams led by ASC I Mohammed Bature based on intelligence report received in the early hours of Wednesday, November 6, 2019. He said the duty paid value of the rice is N4,964,000. Benjamin said the interception was the results of the command’s re-invigorated anti-smuggling operations. “It has been a harvest of seizures for the command, justifying our committed resolve to bring down to the barest minimum the incidence of smuggling within the command’s area of operation. “It is unfortunate that despite the considerable quantity of rice and vehicular seizures in this command in the past, some saboteurs have continued to engage in the unpatriotic act of smuggling. “You may recall that barely two weeks ago the command intercepted a diesel truck loaded with 197(50kg) bags of imported rice with duty paid value of N3,349,000. “We have continued to record victory over these recalcitrant saboteurs. Last month (October) the command’s re-sharpened intelligence network led to five seizures. “They include,1,481 (50kg) bags of imported foreign rice with DPV of N25,177,000; five vehicles with DPV of N14,337,000; nine bales of decond hand clothing with DPV of N720,000,” he added. He said the seizures were made at different locations within the command, namely,   Wawa, Babanna, New Bussa axis in Borgu Local Government Area; Tungankawo, Tunganwawa axis in Kontagora Local Government Area, Mokwa, Kudu, Kpaki axis in Mokwa Local Government Area and Bagama, Dikko junction axis in Suleja Local Government of Niger State. Benjamin said, “The seizures are estimated at over N40 million which represents a huge loss on the part of these elements despite the fact of a jail term that awaits any of them who would be arrested as a result of our long drawn investigative net. “We shall continue to blaze the trail in anti-smuggling activities through the deployment of intelligence gathering and collaboration/synergy with other critical stakeholders for the actualisation of our statutory mandate. “These deliberate and concerted efforts will guide us in contributing our quota toward realising remarkable results in line with the Vision and Mission of the Comptroller General of Customs and his management team.”