LAGOS – Human Rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN), has said that the National Assembly is not constitutionally empowered to pass the proposed ‘Hate Speech’ Bill before it. Falana, who described the bill as a mere attempt to encroach on the legislative autonomy of the state governments, insisted that hate speech was not covered by the legislative list of powers given to the National Assembly by the constitution. The legal icon explained that by virtue of Section 4 of the Constitution, the power of the National Assembly to make laws is limited to matters in the Exclusive Legislative and Concurrent Legislative Lists. He said: “To the extent that hate speech is not covered by both Legislative Lists, the National Assembly cannot pass any hate speech bill. “Since we are operating a federal system of government, the Supreme Court of Nigeria had declared in a number of cases that the National Assembly lacks the constitutional powers to make laws outside its legislative competence, which are by implication residual matters meant for the Houses of Assembly of the states. “Certainly, the hate speech bill is an attempt to encroach on the legislative autonomy of the state governments. “However, it is pertinent to point out that the Penal Code and Criminal Code applicable in the northern and southern states respectively have made provisions for hate speech because it is a state offence. “Hence, the House of Assembly of each of the state has enacted laws against incitement, false accusation, sedition, and criminal defamation. “However, sedition and seditious publications have been declared illegal and unconstitutional in the case of Arthor Nwanko v The State (1985) 6 NCLR 228. In that case Olatawura JCA (as he then was) held: “We are no longer the illiterates or the mob society our colonial masters had mind when the law was promulgated…To retain S. 51 of the Criminal Code, in its present form, that is even if not inconsistent with the freedom of expression guaranteed by our Constitution will be a deadly weapon to be used at will by a corrupt government or a tyrant. “Let us not diminish from the freedom gained from our colonial masters by resorting to laws enacted by them to suit their purpose.” He further explained that the decision of the founding fathers of the present constitution, which guarantees freedom of speech, which must include freedom to criticize, should be praised and any attempt to derogate from it except as provided in the Constitution, must be resisted. “Those in public office should not be intolerant of criticism. Where a writer exceeds the bounds, there should be a resort to the law of libel where the plaintiff must of necessity put his character and reputation in issue,” he added.