Bureau Chief Benin – Chief Lucky Igbinedion, Deputy Chancellor of Igbinedion Universty, Okada, on Friday raised the moral of the staff and students of the nation’s premier private University as he promised to reward handsomely any of them who break ground in the areas of research. The former governor of Edo State, who spoke on behalf of his father, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, the founder and Chancellor of the University at 17th convocation ceremony said the University will continue to encourage and reward handsomely any staff or students who make any breakthrough in research. Chief Igbinedion disclosed that the National Universities Commission has approved 10 additional post graduate programmes for the University. He said the programmes cut across Engineering, Natural and Applied Sciences, Pharmacy, Arts and Social Sciences, Law, Business and Management Studies. He therefore enjoined all Students to avail themselves of the opportunities presented by these programmes to enroll for further studies. Prof. Lawrence Ikechukwu Ezemonye, Vice Chancellor, Igbinedion Universty in his speech charged graduating Students of the University to explore and exploit all enterprising avenues to set themselves up in profitable ventures rather than looking for employments that are now difficult to come by in the country. Prof Ezemonye said he was proud and honoured that the students were not just graduating with so much academic stuff in them but have also been entrepreneurially well-equipped with Digital Literacy for the rigours of life outside the university. According to the VC, “My call has become crucially important in view of the unemployment situation that is currently challenging in our country. “Therefore, I am admonishing you to go for profitable enterprises in which you have comparative advantage. You are going out, not to be part of the unemployment problem ravaging the country but as employers of labour yourselves. You cannot fail, you will not fail because God is your refuge and your strength,” he added. Prof. Ezemonye also pointed out that the University has so far produced a total of 10,032 graduates, 645 post graduates since its inception in 1999.