The Nigerian Army Council has approved the promotion of 34 Brigadier Generals to the rank of Major-Generals and 47 Colonels to the rank of Brigadier Generals. The new promotion was announced in a statement by the Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, on Sunday in Abuja. Those promoted to the rank of Major General, according to Musa are: Brigadier Generals S Idris, Defence Headquarters; D.C Onyemulu, Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre, Oshodi, and B.O Sawyer, Army Headquarters Department of Policy and Plans. Others are: G.S Abdullahi, Defence Headquarters; I.M Obot, Nigerian Army Resource Centre; A.L Lawal, Nigerian High Commission, Cairo, Egypt, and L.A Adegboye, Headquarters 82 Division Enugu. Also on the list are: A.B Ibrahim, Department of Training and Operations; P.B Fakroga, Headquarters Nigerian Army Women Corps; C.K Nwosu, Nigerian Army Special Forces School, Buni Yadi, and H.I Bature, Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command, Minna. The other new Brigadier Generals are: A.L Dusu, Defence Headquarters; M.A Masanawa, Ammunition Central Depot Agunu, Kachia; J.A Ataguba, Land Forces Simulation Centre, Abuja; A.E Attu, National Defence College, Abuja; B.A Isandu, Nigerian Army Intelligence School, Lagos; S.S Araoye, Command Engineering Depot Kaduna, and M.S Ahmed, SI List Nigerian Embassy, Riyadh. They also include GAT Ochigbano, Army Headquarters Department of Military Secretary; T.A Lagbaja, Headquarters 2 Brigade Abak Uyo; L.A Fejokwu, Army Headquarters Department of Administration; P.E Eromosele, National Defence College; A.M Alabi, Headquarters Theatre Command Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Maiduguri. Musa further disclosed that Brigadier Generals G.O Adesina, Department of Policy and Plans; M.M Bunza, Nigerian Military School, Zaria; A.A Adesope, Directorate of Audit and Financial Management Office of the Chief of Army Staff and K.I Muktar, Department of Administration ‘Army’, were also promoted. He added that O.O Olatunde, Headquarters 35 Brigade, was posthumously promoted while E.A Ndagi, Office of the National Security Adviser; K.O Aligbe, Defence Headquarters; U.A Yusuf, African Standby Force ECOWAS Headquarters, Abuja, were on the list of the newly promoted Major Generals. According to him, O.C Ajunwa, Nigerian Embassy Brasilia; F.O Omoigui, Department of Training and Operations (Army), and O.A Akinyemi, Administrative Staff College of Nigeria, Badagry, Lagos, were also promoted. “Those promoted to Brigadier Generals are Colonels B.Y.D Sakaba, Defence Headquarters Abuja; A.Y Bwala, 302 Artillery Regiment, Onitsha; A.A Adekoya, Defence Intelligence Agency; NJ Edet, Headquarters 81 Division, Lagos, and E.C Obi-Osang, Headquarters Nigerian Army Special Forces Command, Buni Yadi. “They also include A.O Arogbofa, Headquarters 102 Division Equipment Support; S Nicodemus, Headquarters 6 Division Port Harcourt; W.B Idris, 17 Brigade, Katsina; I.O Olatunji, Headquarters 8 Division, Sokoto, and S.T Audu, Headquarters 21 Brigade, Yola. “Others are, U.T Opuene, Headquarters Infantry Corps Centre, Jaji; M.D Abumawashi, Headquarters Op LAFIA DOLE, Maiduguri; L.G Lepdung, Headquarters Infantry Corps, Jaji, Kaduna, A.O.D Okoro, Department Administration (Army); A.S.M Wase, Department of Training and Operations (Army) and A.L Okpodu, Nigerian Army Aviation. “They also include, S. Nuhu, Department of Training and Operations (Army); E.O Ojo, Special Task Force, Operation SAFE HAVEN; J.R Lar, 31 Artillery Brigade Garrison, Minna, and S.J.A Ilori, Department of Army Transformation and Innovation. “Also elevated to Brigadier Generals are N.B Ebulue, Defence Intelligence Agency; K.O Ukandu Army Headquarters Department of Administration, A.G Laka, Army War College, Abuja; E.I. Etuk, Multinational Joint Task Force N’Djamena; M.E Onoja, 1 Military Intelligence Brigade, Kaduna and E.I Okoro, Nigerian Army War College. “M.B Wabili, Nigerian Army Super Camp Benisheik, K.E Chigbu Army Headquarters Department of Training and Operations, S.O Nwafor, 303 Artillery Regiment General Support and I Otu Headquarters 7 Division Maiduguri are also on the list,” he said. Others, according to Musa, are S.O Adejimi, Headquarters 6 Division Supply and Transport; S.D Makolo, Headquarters Department of Transformation and Innovation; V.D Beryo, Headquarters Ordnance Corps; M.O Erebulu, 2 Provost Group, Ibadan and A Idris, Directorate of Army Reserve Recruitment and Resettlement Rear. “They also include C.A Ataki, Department of Policy and Plans (Army); F.O Omata, Special Task Force Operation SAFE HAVEN; C.C Ogbu, Institute of Army Education; A.E Owiriwa, 82 Division Ordnance Services; R.O.O Cole, Nigerian Army Ordnance Tailoring Factory Yaba, Lagos, and T.I Gusau, Nigerian Army Resource Centre Abuja. “Among those promoted to the rank of Brigadier General are G.C Nkenke, 8 Division Supply and Transport; M Galadima, Headquarters Nigerian Army Finance Corps, Apapa, Lagos and M Auta, Nigerian Army University Biu,” he added. Musa disclosed that the Acting Director of Defence Information, Onyema Nwachukwu, had also been promoted to the rank of Brigadier General. “Other are I Ahmed, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna; S Nuhu, Army Headquarters Department of Administration, and A.A.W Hassan, Armed Forces Command and Staff College. “The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, congratulates the beneficiaries and charged them to redouble their efforts in the discharge of their responsibilities,” he said. NAF Council Approves Promotion Of 13 AVMs, 86 Others Similarly, the Air Force Council (AFC) has approved the promotion of 99 senior officers to the next higher ranks in the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, made this known in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. “The affected senior officers comprise 13 Air Commodores, who were promoted to the rank of Air Vice Marshals (AVMs), 35 Group Captains who were promoted to the rank of Air Commodores and 51 Wing Commanders promoted to the rank of Group Captains,” he said. Daramola said those promoted to the rank of AVM include Air Commodore Ayoola Jolasinmi, Hassan Abubakar, Jackson Yusuf, Austine Imafidor, Pius Oahimire, Dalhat Ladan, Cosmas Ozougwu, Isah Muhammad, Sunday Makinde, Abubakar Yusuf, Abubakar Adamu, Ado Inuwa and Ademola Durotoye. “Among those promoted from the rank of Group Captain to Air Cdre are: Ahmed Idris, Olasunkanmi Abidoye, Olusola Akinboyewa, Isaac Subi, Japhet Ekwuribe, Solomon Lazarus, Ahmed Dari, Emeka Ashiegbu and Abdullahi Bello. “Others promoted to the rank of Air Commodore include Yuhana Katabiya, Gambo Adamu, Alheri Dakwat, Olayinka Oyesola, Adedoyin Oyenusi, Edward Gapkwet, Friday Ekpah, Luther Kamat, Joktan Chidama, Felix Uwakara, Mikail Abdulraheem and Ernest Owai. “Also, Glenn Nkanang, Chidiebere Obiabaka, Raphael Ojo, Mohammed Isah, Ibitoye Ajiboye, Shani Bukar, Wapkerem Maigida, Atang Sambo, Daniel Akpan, Olanrewaju Oyename, Boniface Ifeobu, Godwin Udoh, Ayodele Hanidu and Azubuike Chukwuka were also promoted to the rank of Air Cdr. “The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, on behalf of officers, airmen, airwomen and civilian staff of the NAF, heartily congratulates the newly promoted senior officers. “He urges them to see the elevation as motivation to re-dedicate themselves towards more effective and efficient service delivery,” he said. Daramola said the newly promoted senior officers would be decorated with their new ranks at a later date. Navy Board Approves Promotion Of 140 Naval Officers Correspondingly, the Navy board has approved the promotion of 140 naval officers to the next ranks. Navy Director of Information, Commodore Suleman Dahun, made this known in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. A breakdown of the promotion released showed that 65 Lieutenant Commanders (Lt.-Cdrs.) were promoted to the rank of Commanders, while 26 Commanders were promoted to Captains (Capt.) Thirty-two Captains were promoted to Commodores and 17 Commodores were promoted to the rank of Rear Admirals (Rear Adm.). Dahun listed the newly promoted Rear Admirals as Dickson Olisemenogor, Elkanah Jaiyeola, Baribuma Kole, Othaniel Filafa, Akinga Ayafa, Danjuma Moses, Vincent Okeke and Yakubu Wambai. Others, according to him are: Emmanuel Beckley, Perry Onwuzulike, Nuhu Bala, Chukwu Okafor, Tanko Pani, Ibrahim Dewu, Monday Unurhiere, Joseph Akpan and Olumuyiwa Olotu. Dahun said those promoted to Commodores include Kabir Mohammed, Shehu Gombe, Ibrahim Mohammed, Musa Katagum, Gideon Kachim, Semiu Adepegba, Pakiribo Anabraba, Bob-Manuel Effiong, Suleiman Ibrahim, Danjuma Ndanusa, Haruna Zego Ayoand Adedotun-Vaughan. Others, he said, were Victor Choji, Mohammed Dahiru, Nnamdi Ekwom, Stephen Ibrahim, Desmond Igbo, Mohammed Muye, Kunle Oguntuga, Aniefiok Uko, Olufemi Adeleke, Etop Ebe, Usman Faruk, Paul Efe-Oghene, Michael Igwe, Ikenna Ubani, Musliu Yussuff, Samuel Ngatuwa, Omotola Olukoya, Dolapo Shittu, Abiodun Alade and Emmanuel Anakwe. “The Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Adm. Ibok-Ete Ibas on behalf of officers, ratings and civilian staff of the Nigerian Navy, rejoices with these newly promoted officers and their families. “He urges them to rededicate themselves to their responsibilities and remain loyal to the nation and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR,” Dahun said.