The Mexican police officer involved in the arrest of the son of reputed drug lord Joaquin ‘El Chapo’ Guzman has been assassinated in a parking lot. Closed-circuit television cameras (CCTV) captured the horrifying moment on Wednesday morning when at least two armed men with semiautomatic rifles climbed out of a red car and opened fire at a white Nissan four-door sedan, The Daily Mail reports. The ambush took less than 30 seconds as the gunmen fired at least 150 bullets into the white vehicle and can be seen in a video uploaded by Keegan Hamilton on Twitter. The red car had followed the white car into the parking lot of a shopping center in Culiacán, the capital of Sinaloa state, Infobae.com reported. The authorities identified the dead officer as Eduardo ‘N,’ 32.  At least two men armed with semiautomatic rifles fired 155 bullets into a white Nissan parked near a shopping center in the Sinaloa city of Culiacan Closed-circuit television images captured the scene in which the armed men drove up to the white Nissan in a red car The armed men are seen getting out of the red vehicle and opening fire almost immediately at the white Nissan  The ambush on Wednesday morning took less than 30 seconds The victim was a high-level officer with Sinalo’s State Preventive Police. Local media reports indicate that the officer was involved in the October 17 arrest of Ovidio Guzmán López, the son of Sinaloa cartel boss Joaquín ‘El Chapo’ Guzmán. Mexican security forces had Guzman Lopez outside a house on his knees against a wall before they were forced to back off and let him go as his cartel’s gunmen shot up the Culiacan. Defense Secretary Luis Cresencio Sandoval last week showed video and presented a timeline of the failed operation to arrest Guzmán López – an incident that embarrassed the administration of President Andrés Manuel López Obrador. The video shot by soldiers shows Guzmán exit the house with his hands up. Soldiers order him to call off the attacks around the city as gunfire is heard in the background. Guzmán called his brother Archivaldo Iván Guzmán Salazar on his cellphone and told him to stop the chaos.