Benin – The Executive Director, Environmental Rights Action/ Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN), Dr. Godwin Uyi Ojo, yesterday declared that ERA and its partners will in the next three years (2022) empower no fewer than 10,000 Nigerian youths with basic skills for energy transition to alternative energy in solar systems development. Dr. Uyi Ojo, who disclosed this while briefing the press on Era and its partners’ empowerment programmes to promote youth creativity and innovation, said for the past five years they have engaged 5000 young people to develop entrepreneurial skills as a response to environmental degradation, climate change and young people unemployment problem in Nigeria. He said the initiative tagged “from Extraction to Education” is aimed at building a broad based knowledge on climate change and a switch from fossil fuel dependence to renewable energy sources. “Our empowering young persons has currently reached a target of about 5,000 youths with the target to reach out to over 10,000 youths in the next three years by 2022. “We empowering them with the basic skills for energy transition to alternative energy in solar systems development and social marketing to address carbon emission reduction provide access to lighting and create green jobs. “We are engaging the youths systematically to advance young people’s participation in their economic empowerment, amongst others thereby providing support and space for young innovators to flourish as alternative to oil and gas sector dependence and become job creators in the renewable energy sector to address the issues of environmental degradation and poverty” he said. Uyi Ojo, however, disclosed that two youths who are currently young secondary school leavers, Daniel and Japheth have developed a practical and functional household multifunctional renewable energy gadget called DanJAP. According to him, DanJAP is a Power Bank with triple phone charging outlets and luminous light which will reduce the dependence on kerosene, candles as well as reducing the rate of deforestation. “Although the product is at its initial stage, they are faced with routine challenges of young innovators and entrepreneurs with scarce resources. “They have contributed in their own special way to reducing carbon emissions from fossil based conventional light system to address the problem of darkness due to frequent power outage in Nigeria. “Similarly, his partner Dan also stated that the “product in multiple colours will roll out in first quarter of January and we are appealing to well-meaning Nigerians, philanthropists and entrepreneurs to come to our aid”.