SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE/VICTORIA OJUGBANA, LAGOS – Disturbed by fraud recorded in the recent elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, as well as in previous polls in Nigeria, stakeholders have called for a special court for electoral offenders and stiffer penalties meted out to electoral lawbreakers. Lanre Arogundade, Director, International Press Centre (IPC), speaking during the public presentation/media stakeholders’ roundtable, themed: “Trends in reportage of post-2019 election issues” (Scorecard for July – September 2019) at the International Press Centre (IPC) in Lagos on Tuesday, noted that the country is lagging behind in the area of sanctioning election offenders. He said: “We haven’t done anything at all in this area because if they are being punished, they won’t have the audacity to do what they are doing. Maybe we need a special court to try offenders.” Saying that the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) cannot do this because it is busy conducting the elections and does not have its own separate police, the IPC director recommended a revisit to some of the recommendations of Mohammed Uwais panel on electoral reforms that talks about a commission for a special tribunal for electoral offences. “If someone violates your right as a voter or attacks you, you know that you can make a case against the person before this particular tribunal. If we fail to do this, electoral offences will likely be repeated in subsequent elections.” Calling for voter education of young people, Arogundade said that “We need to catch them young and make them understand why they shouldn’t allow themselves to be used by politicians for thuggery and ballot-box snatching. “We need to begin to tell our young ones in Nigeria that no politician is worth their lives. Because when you die, after the election, the politicians will continue. Even after the elections, they can change political parties. The person you die for now may decide to join the same political party over which you have lost your life tomorrow. If feel that we need to put the slogan that no politician is worth your life.” Rotimi Oyekanmi, Chief Press Secretary to the Independent National Election (INEC), commended the National Assembly for moves to establish the election malpractices tribunal for electoral offenders. “The thing has reached an advanced stage and am sure that within a short time, the National Assembly would come up with it. Some senators are leading the effort to take care of all those who engage in electoral offences.”