Comrade Austin Ozobo, a top Niger Delta rights activist, is the National President, Ijaw People’s Development Initiative (IPDI). Ozobo, the Burutu North State Constituency candidate for the Delta State House of Assembly election under the platform of the Nigeria People’s Congress (NPC) in the last election, spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the politics of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the massive fraud in the agency and why the forensic audit of the commission ordered recently by President Muhammadu Buhari must succeed. Excerpts: The NDDC operations are said to be adversely affected by high level corruption. How do you see the institution of a probe of the agency by President Muhammadu Buhari? I support the forensic audit. It is overdue. It has been long we have been anticipating or calling on relevant authorities to launch a mother-of-all probes because the commission has been turned into a trade centre. But, our fear is about the persons concerned, who are leading the said audit. It is a common saying that he that comes to equity must come with clean hands. How do you see the situation where the President forwarded list of the new NDDC Board to the Senate for clearance and the Minister of the Niger Delta appointed an Interim Management Committee of the same agency few hours after? President Buhari is being misled by Senators Ovie Omo-Agege and Godswill Akpabio. The two boards are faulty. They were instituted in aberration of the NDDC Establishment Act 2000. Godswill Akpabio appointing a three-man Interim Management Committee at a time names of substantive board members were undergoing confirmation screening in the Senate could be described as an act of insubordination. If the three-man committee was duly approved by President Buhari after sending list of substantive board members to the Senate, it means that Buhari was confused and a sign that Nigeria is in the wrong hands. The three-man committee is a duplication of functions or power. Whatever the three-man committee will do, the substantive board members can do it better. Besides, the three-man interim committee does not have the backing of the law and is politically motivated to serve some personal interests. It will slow down the smooth running of the commission. Akpabio, who was having some running battles with the EFCC before running to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for solace, does not qualify to supervisee NDDC forensic audit. Above all, the substantive board too is faulty. It is politically motivated and not based by the tenets of law. It is not the turn of Edo State to produce the Chairman of the commission. It is also not the turn of Delta State to produce the Managing Director of the commission. I make bold to state that it is the turn of Delta State to produce the current NDDC Chairman and not Edo State. The appointment of Dr. Pius Odubu from Edo State as the current Chairman of the NDDC board contravenes the laws of the commission. The Act explicitly made it clear that the position of the Chairman should be rotated among NDDC member states in alphabetic order. The first Board of the NDDC (2001-2004) had Godwin Omene and Emmanuel Agwariavwodo, both from Delta State; Chief Timi Alaibe, from Bayelsa; as well as Udoh Mboso and Ukot, both from Akwa Ibom State. Second board (2005-2009) had Chief Timi Alaibe from Bayelsa as the MD; Chief P.Z Aginigha from Delta as the EDFA; and Beniah Ojurn from Rivers as the EDP. The third board (2009-2011) had Mr. Uguwoha from Rivers as MD; Chief P.Z. Aginigha from Delta as the EDFA; and Etteh from Akwa-Ibom as the EDP. Still, the third board (2011-2013) had Dr Christian Oboh from Rivers as the MD; Mr. Lambert Konboye from Delta as the EDFA; while Edikan Eshiet Eshiet from Akwa Ibom was the EDP. And according to the alphabetic order in the NDDC Act, which had been the guiding principles from the creation of the commission, now, it should be the turn of alphabetic D, and alphabet D stands for Delta State and not Edo State. Obviously, by the analysis above, it is clear that the appointment of an Edo man as the current NDDC Chairman is illegal as it violates the Act of the Commission of Year 2000, Volume 4. Again, the Managing Director of the commission is to be rotated by production quantum and currently Bayelsa, is the highest producer of crude oil and not Delta. It is also expected that the Managing Director position be zoned to Bayelsa State, and the Chairman’s position returned to Delta State. You can now see how President Buhari was misled by powerful politicians. It is our earnest demand that the current two illegal boards, both alleged substantive and the three-man Interim Management Committee be dissolved and a fresh board constituted in line with the NDDC Establishment Act. Besides, we see no necessity to set up an Interim Management Committee to pilot the forensic audit. It is a deliberate clog on the wheel of development in the region and to distract smooth running of the commission.  We are aware that during President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, there was a forensic audit in NNPC. It did not lead to shutdown of activities or dissolution and setting up of an Interim Management Committee to oversee the audit. We do not support the two boards as they are illegal. It must not be an interim committee to lead forensic audit. Similar thing happened in Oando Plc. A forensic audit was carried out by Deloitte and Touche, which indicted the oil firm of various scandals and infractions that led to its suspension by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This was carried out without a shutdown of activities in Oando and was not done by an Interim Management Committee. Besides, audit is not carried out by interim committee, but is normally carried out by government or private internal and external auditors. The Akpabio’s interim committee is set up with ulterior motives as it is an unnecessary burden to the government. A simple question to ask is: If Akpabio does not have confidence in the substantive NDDC board to supervise the forensic audit, what makes him to believe that Joy Gbeneh Nunieh, who is a Rivers State representative in the faulty substantive NDDC board, will not compromise, being appointed as chairman of the Interim Management Committee? It is a fact that the NDDC substantive Board too is faulty. With the zoning of the chairmanship to Edo state, which is a violation or contravention of the NDDC Establishment Act, we want it to be corrected as well, but if the authorities concerned fail to correct it, we believe it will be corrected through various legal actions pending in the law courts. Similarly, we want the Presidency to take over the supervision of  NDDC from the Niger Delta Ministry led by Godswill Akpabio, as we do not trust him in this matter. We have lost confidence in him. We do not even believe that he has the capacity to function as Niger Delta Minister, looking at the political diversity and ethnic complexity of the region. It is glaring that NDDC will die a natural death under him and the government’s aim to create the agency will be defeated if Akpabio is allowed to continue as the Niger Delta Minister. With the recent killing and clash involving Ogbe-Ejoh and Aladja communities in Delta State, what has been done to ensure that peace is returned to the troubled area? We are not impressed on how security agencies and the government of Delta State are handling the matter. They seem to be taking sides. The issue is a gruesome killing of a former member of my group, Hon. Taylor Agofugha from Ogbe-Ijoh community. The Aladja youths were fingered in the killing. The security agencies told us it was four Aladja youths that perpetrated the crime. We are asking the suspects to be handed over to us, or security agents. But, nothing has been done about it. The general assumption is that Aladja, after signing a peace pact in the previous week, reinforced and invaded the peaceful Ogbe-Ijoh community. Some of us did not want to create the impression that the act was a renewed communal war. We downplayed it so as not to endanger other innocent lives. But, our simple request is that the perpetrators be brought to book, if the government really is interested in the peace of the affected area in the state. The SSA to Governor Okowa on Security, Comrade Ezekiel Daniel, recently called on multinationals to help empower Niger Delta youths. To what extent would you agree with him? Do you think the multinationals have not been doing enough in terms of their corporate social responsibilities to their host communities? I agree with his call for oil multinational companies to empower youths of the region. They have not been doing enough. Oil companies prefer dealing with few individuals than carrying out all-round development in our oil communities. If you visit these oil bearing communities, you will lament how they have been marginalised. Apart from that, Niger Delta produces the national cake. There is nothing to show for it. Apart from oil companies, part of the problem is from the governments of the day. The 13 percent derivation does not positively affect lives of the oil communities directly. The NDDC and other commissions that oversee the plight of oil communities do not impact on the oil communities. Core members of the oil producing communities are not appointed into these commissions. It is disgusting. Being oil producing communities, we ought to have benefits more than what we are getting. But our privileged political and community leaders are trading with our destinies. They blindfold us and go behind and negotiate millions and billions of monies for themselves to the detriment of our people. These are monies that could be used to develop our communities. But, a single man or group of persons would be embezzling it to the detriment of the entire communities. This hinders oil companies from developing our communities. Oil companies see that divide and rule policy will benefit them than dealing with the entire community. Until we identify these bad leaders and deal with them decisively, we will achieve nothing in the nearest future in terms of development and inclusive politics. Would you say the Niger Delta states are doing enough to empower youths in the region? The answer is capital no. Niger Delta governors and interventionist agencies such as NDDC in the region have failed the youths in terms of employment, empowerment and appointments. No inclusiveness of the youths in governance. Despite the 13 percent derivation to the region, the youths are not considered for major empowerments. Criminal activities in Niger Delta may have not escalated to this level if there had been youth inclusiveness in governance, as empowerment, employment and political appointments are tools to check and fight crime in a society. To what extent is Governor Ifeanyi Okowa succeeding in the implementation of his SMART Agenda? Governor Ifeanyi Okowa  did well with his SMART Agenda in his first term. A lot of young entrepreneurs were empowered through farming and skill acquisition. But, I frown at the selection process of the beneficiaries. It was politicised. It was not transparent. Slots were shared by politicians among their aides. You must be recommended by one political office holder for you to be short-listed. The online registration was for formality. Hardly few persons who registered online were considered. It was largely benefited by the same privilege people. The poor masses that ought to have benefited were relegated. I have not heard much of the SMART Agenda in his second term, though he is just starting his second term. I cannot write him off now. It will be too early for me to do that. All I want is that he should get it right this time around. Let it not circulate only around privileged people. The poor masses should be made to benefit from it. That is just my concern. The forms should not be distributed through politicians, but should be shared among various communities in the state.