Traffic accidents in Nigeria represent a serious problem, where its occurrence is being recorded by each passing day; and the country in the process losing a substantial percentage of its Gross Domestic Products (GDP). In this report JUSTUS ADEJUMOH, ISAAC ASABOR and OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA, examine the negative impact road accidents are leaving on the economy with particular emphasis on human capital. One of the negative externalities of heavy reliance on road transportation as a means of movement of people and goods is road traffic accident (RTA). It is not an exaggeration to say that RTAs place an enormous financial burden, not only on families of victims, but also on society at large and the governments. It is from the foregoing perspective that inferences can be drawn to conclude that road traffic accidents affect economic growth in any given country such as Nigeria. It is no doubt that against the foregoing background that World Bank in a study in 2018, finds that reducing road traffic deaths and injuries could result in substantial long-term income gains for low- and middle-income countries. The report, “The High Toll of Traffic Injuries: Unacceptable and Preventable,” introduces a new global methodology to calculate the economic impact of road safety and analyses the cases of China, India, the Philippines, Tanzania and Thailand. While there is general recognition of road traffic injuries and fatalities, little is known about the link between road traffic injuries and economic growth. The report quantifies how investments in road safety are also an investment in human capital. The study finds that countries that do not invest in road safety could miss out on anywhere between 7 and 22% in potential per capita GDP growth over a 24-year period, saying that such requires policymakers to prioritise proven investments in road safety. The cost of inaction is more than 1.25 million deaths a year globally, diminished productivity and reduced growth prospects. The report goes on to disclose that road traffic fatalities disproportionately affect low- and middle-income countries, where 90% of global road deaths occur, and that rising incomes in many developing countries have led to rapid motorisation, while road safety management and regulations have not kept pace. The report stated that it is statistically documented that death rates from road traffic injuries are high in LMICs, reaching 34 per 100,000 in the countries studied. By contrast, the average across the 35 countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in the same year was 8 deaths per 100,000. The greatest share of mortality and long-term disability from road traffic crashes happen amongst the working-age population (between 15 and 64 years old). According to the report, deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes affect medium- and long-term growth prospects by removing prime age adults from the work force, and reducing productivity due to the burden of injuries. Using detailed data on deaths and economic indicators from 135 countries, the study estimates that, on average, a 10% reduction in road traffic deaths raises per capita real GDP by 3.6% over a 24-year horizon. Over the period 2014-38, halving deaths and injuries due to road traffic could potentially add 22% to GDP per capita in Thailand, 15% in China, 14% in India, 7% in the Philippines and 7% in Tanzania. In addition to the GDP gains from preventing death and injury, road safety interventions improve welfare benefits to the society. The World Bank study has quantified these gains for the five countries using a range of income and risk reduction scenarios. Measured in 2005 US dollars, the welfare gains range between $5,000 to $80,000 in Tanzania, and between $850,000 to $1.8 million in Thailand. To achieve these welfare gains the report lists interventions that include reducing and enforcing speed limits, reducing driving under the influence of alcohol, increasing seat-belt use through enforcement and public awareness campaigns, and integrating road safety in all phases of planning, design, and operation of road infrastructure. “Traffic crashes kill more than 1.25 million people around the world each year and they also take a huge economic toll, with so much human potential being lost. Investments in road safety pay for themselves many times over, and hopefully this new report will spur governments to take actions that save lives,” said Michael R. Bloomberg, philanthropist, three-term Mayor of New York City and entrepreneur. Though the statistics of road crashes in the country is quite alarming, it will also suffice to say that loses accrued to the nation cannot be calculated based on economic terms alone, especially when it is considered that the enormous emotional and psychological hurts associated with each road crash, leaves many shattered and disillusioned for many years. In the African setting for instance, and particularly in Nigeria, men are generally regarded as bread winners of their families and naturally expected to provide for their needs which explains the frenetic disposition in the pursuit of a means of livelihood by most of them. The death of any man therefore, especially through avoidable road crashes, is a great loss not only to the country’s workforce and aggregate productivity, but particularly to dependants, who could be adversely affected by such loss. It is even more painful to note that road accidents don’t just happen, they are caused. In other words, every road crash is not just a mere occurrence but orchestrated by one factor or the other, especially due to non-compliance to basic traffic regulations and laws. The death of an entrepreneur could signify the end of his business and the loss of jobs for many of his employees with resonating negative impact on the chain of dependants. In an attempt to evaluate, and give figures to losses arising from accidents, it is imperative to identify those specific areas of losses where empirical assessments can be made to determine cost implications and its overall effect on the economy. In a paper delivered by Agbasi and Buga at the annual conference of the Nigeria Building and Road Research Institute in 2018, which was titled, ‘Road Accidents in Nigeria, Causes, consequences and Remedies’, the speakers posited that the consequences of road accidents do not only exert economic losses on the nation indirectly but directly on the victims. They went ahead to breakdown the losses as follows; Many lives were lost following a multiple auto crash at Ile Zik bus stop, Agege, Lagos; Three teachers were crushed to death by a car driver at Alapako, Ogun State; Four persons including a 200 level student of University of Port Harcourt identified as Emem Peace Udoma, died following a fatal road accident in Port Harcourt; A Biochemistry final year student of the University of Port Harcourt; Blessing Igoni, died when the power bike she was riding on crashed near Bori Camp in Rumukpakolosi, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. A middle-aged woman lost her life while six others sustained varying degrees of injuries in a fatal accident along the Enugu-Onitsha expressway, Anambra State; Four persons died in two road accidents at different locations in Ogun State; A twin, Taiwo and Kehinde Animashaun and their motor bike rider died when motor bike crashed into a stationary truck parked by the roadside in Sango area of Ogun State; Four persons died in two accidents at different locations in Ogun State. The first accident occurred at Iju-Atan road and second at Odeda. Three persons died and four others sustained injuries in an accident involving a Toyota Corolla car and a taxi at Baagba area on old-Abeokuta-Ibadan Expressway; One person died in an accident involving the motorcade of the Youths and Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung in Gombe; Three persons died in auto crash involving a commercial vehicle and a tractor along Gumel Hadejia road in Jigawa State; Two persons illegally hanging on a train were crushed when a train averted a collision with an abandoned commercial bus at Pen Cinema, Agege, Lagos; A final year female undergraduate of Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto, Fadila Muazu, died in a fatal accident one week to her wedding. Eleven persons were killed in an accident in Niger State; A Magistrate’s son, relation and driver died in an accident at Ekpoma, Edo State; A man lost his life after an articulated truck lost control and crushed 14 vehicles along the Abuja-Keffi highway about 100 metres after the Karu Bridge; supporters in the entourage of the newly sworn-in Caretaker Committee Transition Committee of Batsari LGA, of Katsina State, Alhaji Mannir Ruma, died in an accident along Batsari-Katsina Road. They were returning from the swearing-in ceremony at the Government House, Katsina. Analysed from the foregoing perspective, it is therefore, not surprising that the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has not hidden its concern on the negative impact which road accidents have been exerting on the economy. For instance, in the last quarter of 2018, FRSC disclosed that economic loss worth N9.8 billion was lost in 196 traffic crashes recorded so far across the country in 2018. The Corps Marshal, Boboye Oyeyemi, made the disclosure at the 2018 National Safety Training Programme for Petroleum Tanker Drivers (PTD) in Lagos. The training was organised by Lagos State branch of National Union of Petroleum and National Gas Workers (NUPENG). Mr. Oyeyemi said that the loss involved the cost of other vehicles, lives and damage to the environment and roads, and said that there was a slight reduction in the number of crashes recorded during the period, compared to previous years. A public affairs analyst, Bayo Adetunji, told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the frequency of road accidents in the country robs on the economy as well as investment in infrastructure to stem the vices. “The numbers of lives that are daily lost in road accidents are no doubt severe human and economic losses to Nigeria’s that is still gasping for breath in sustainable capital development. Besides, the volume of investment which ought to be a fulcrum for economic growth is also affected due to the frequency of avoidable accidents on our roads. More worrisome is the last year report on road traffic accident released in the month of August which discloses that a total of 12,797 Nigerians were killed in road traffic crashes in 30 months. The data from the bureau showed that in 2016, a total of 5,053 Nigerians died in road accidents while in 2017, a total of 5,121 Nigerians died in road accidents. The data further showed that in the first six months of this year, 2,623 Nigerians have perished on road traffic accidents across Nigeria. The second quarter 2018 road transport data released by the NBS reflected that road traffic accidents killed a total of 1,331 Nigerians in the second quarter of 2018, up from the 1,292 Nigerians killed in the second quarter of the year. The NBS had before its latest release , reported that a total of 1,306 Nigerians were killed by road traffic crashes in the final quarter of 2017. The report showed that 2,608 road crashes occurred within the second quarter of 2018. Speed violation is reported as the major cause of road crashes in the second quarter of 2018 and it accounted for 50.65 per cent of the total road crashes reported. Tyre burst and dangerous driving followed closely as they both accounted for 8.59 per cent and 8.40 per cent of the total road crashes recorded. The report also showed that a total of 8,437 Nigerians got injured in the road traffic crashes recorded, out of which, 7,946, representing 94 per cent, were adults while the remaining 491 Nigerians, representing 6 per cent were children. Further breakdown showed that 6,415 male Nigerians, representing 76 per cent, got injured in road crashes in the second quarter of 2018 while 2,022 female Nigerians, representing 24 per cent got injured. In the same vein, the newly adopted 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development has set an ambitious target of mitigating the global number of deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes by 2020, positing that without sustained action, road traffic crashes are predicted to become the seventh leading cause of death by 2030. It added that road traffic crashes cost most countries 3% of their gross domestic product, adding that nearly half of those dying on the world’s roads are “vulnerable road users”: pedestrians, cyclists, and motorcyclists. 90% of the world’s fatalities on the roads occur in low- and middle-income countries, even though these countries have approximately 54% of the world’s vehicles. It also posited that road traffic injuries are the leading cause of death among people aged between 15 and 29 years. More than 1.25 million people die each year as a result of road traffic crashes. Mr. Monday Iyasere, a senior staff of Great Nigeria Insurance Company, in his opinion on the burden which road accident is exerting on the economy, said: “traffic crashes kill many people who are no doubt productive around the country each year, and that they also take a huge economic toll, with so much human potential being lost.” He advised that investments in road safety should be encouraged as they pay for themselves many times over. As widely known, accidents happen in a fraction of a second but their consequences may last for a lifetime. A large number of road users involved in traffic crashes recover from their injuries, but some of them never recover fully and suffer from some kind of permanent disability. It would be recalled that permanent disabilities have a negative effect on the economy, particularly when viewed from the fact that those who survived a road crash must be treated in hospitals as in-patients. While those that are civil servants or work in public sector of the economy  are forced to take sick leave from work of between one and three months; depending  on the gravity of injuries sustained, but in some cases accident victims can be out of work  for more than three months. In addition to loss of life or reduced quality of life, road accidents carry many other consequences to the survivors such as legal implications, economic burden, home and vehicle adaptations as well as psychological consequences. There are, however, reasons to believe that an increasing number of people live with lasting impairments as a result of traffic injury. The burden of accidents is borne not only by those directly involved in traffic accidents. The burdens are also borne by their families, and by extension negatively affect the level of their productivity to the economy.