Zinedine Zidane believes Karim Benzema deserves to be ranked alongside Cristiano Ronaldo in Real Madrid’s pantheon of greats after he reached 50 UEFA Champions League goals for the club on Wednesday. The Frenchman netted twice in Real’s 6-0 drubbing of Galatasaray at the Santiago Bernabeu to join an elite group of players: Squawka Football

@Squawka
Karim Benzema becomes the fourth player in #UCL history to score 50 goals in the competition for a single club: Lionel Messi (113)
 Cristiano Ronaldo (105)
 Raul (66)
 Karim Benzema (50) Three out of four for Real Madrid. View image on Twitter
886
10:41 PM – Nov 6, 2019
Twitter Ads info and privacy
262 people are talking about this B/R Football

@brfootball
Ronaldo. Raul. Benzema. Karim Benzema becomes the third player to score 50 Champions League goals for Real Madrid View image on Twitter
6,559
10:42 PM – Nov 6, 2019
Twitter Ads info and privacy
1,297 people are talking about this
Benzema surpassed the legendary Alfredo Di Stefano, who netted 49 European Cup goals for Real: UEFA Champions League

@ChampionsLeague
 All-time #UCL top scorers for Real Madrid: Cristiano Ronaldo
 Raúl González
 Karim Benzema
 Alfredo Di Stéfano View image on Twitter
4,961
10:49 PM – Nov 6, 2019
Twitter Ads info and privacy
948 people are talking about this
After the victory, which put Real on the brink of qualifying for the knockout rounds, Zidane was full of praise for the striker, per Marca: “His numbers speak for themselves. Those that like football know he’s a quality player. He’s important for the team, for attacking… he does it very well. The only thing that’s changed since Cristiano Ronaldo [left for Juventus] is that Karim is more mature. He’s a father and well… many things have happened lately which are reflected on the pitch. “I’m very happy for Karim. It’s true that he’s overtaken a legend of this club like Alfredo di Stefano. He’s now like Cristiano Ronaldo in the history of this club. He’s doing something amazing and we simply have to enjoy it and make the most of it.” Benzema’s goals against Galatasaray were his first this season in the Champions League. In La Liga, though, he has been typically prolific, netting seven goals in 10 appearances and also providing three assists. Only Villarreal’s Gerard Moreno has more goals than the 31-year-old in the Spanish top flight this term, and he is at least five clear of every other Real player. When Ronaldo was at Los Blancos, Benzema’s invaluable contributions often went under the radar, but his consistency during his decade-plus at the club has been remarkable. Real are firmly in the La Liga title race despite having not regularly found their best form this term, and Benzema has been their key man: LaLiga

@LaLigaEN
It’s crowded at the top in #LaLigaSantander! @FCBarcelona
 @realmadriden
 @RealSociedadEN
 @atletienglish
 @SevillaFC_ENG
 @GranadaCdeF View image on Twitter
636
11:19 PM – Nov 3, 2019
Twitter Ads info and privacy
132 people are talking about this
As well as being a significant night for Benzema, Wednesday also marked the arrival on the European stage of the 18-year-old Rodrygo, who netted a hat-trick: B/R Football

@brfootball
18 years, 301 days. Youngest player ever to score a perfect UCL hat-trick. All in a day’s work. View image on Twitter
13.6K
12:14 AM – Nov 7, 2019
Twitter Ads info and privacy
2,561 people are talking about this
Real are back in La Liga action on Saturday, when they travel to Eibar.