Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Do you know that the main reason why people are suffering today is as a result of laziness? Do you know that laziness has rendered so many families and even nation poor? Do you know that an unbeliever is better than a lazy person? Do you know that the number of lazy people in the world is far more than the number of those who are hardworking? Do you know that laziness is a disease? Do you even know that so many people have lost their lives to this disease called laziness? Yes, Laziness is the worst disease on earth! It is the most infectious disease on earth. So, many people has been afflicted with this disease. Unfortunately, this disease is spreading wider than any other disease on earth. Laziness is the major cause of poverty. The major problems we are facing in our world today, such as economic crisis, economic meltdown, the problem of refugees and migrants, and even the shortage of food, are all caused by laziness. The author of the book of Proverbs 6:9-11 describes Laziness as the major cause of poverty: “How long will you slumber, O sluggard? When will you rise from your sleep? 10 A little sleep, a little slumber, A little folding of the hands to sleep— 11 So shall your poverty come on you like a prowler, And your need like an armed man.” The Lazy ones have little or nothing to contribute. When you offer a lazy man an egg, he will want you to peel it for him. Sam Veda describes laziness as the worst thing that can happen to anybody:  “Laziness erodes a person of his enthusiasm and energy. As a result the person loses all opportunities and finally becomes dejected and frustrated. The worst thing is that he stops believing in himself.” A person who does not believe in himself can never believe in anybody. Charity begins at home! No one can give what he or she does not have. A lazy person is a hopeless person. An idle mind is devil’s workshop. The Devil, according to Benjamin Whichcote often finds work for them who find none for themselves. Marcus Porcius Cato declares, “In doing nothing men learn to do evil.” An evil doer is the product of laziness. A lazy man has nothing to offer except evil thought and evil actions. A poor nation is a nation that is predominantly made up of lazy people. In his Second letter to the Thessalonians St. Paul wrote, “For you yourselves know how you ought to follow us, for we were not disorderly among you; 8 nor did we eat anyone’s bread free of charge, but worked with labor and toil night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, 9 not because we do not have authority, but to make ourselves an example of how you should follow us.” The early apostles lived an exemplary life.  They were not just hardworking, God used them to empower as many people as possible. An idle Man of God is a burden to the people of God. Men of God are not suppose to be idle or burdensome to the people. Unfortunately, we have so many men of God that rely totally on their members for their upkeep and their entire wellbeing. Some men of God have even impoverish their members  in the name of Seed Sowing. St. Paul boldly declares that he was not a burden on the Thessalonians. Even as a Man of God or a minister of the gospel he worked hard day and night in order not to be a burden for his members. We, the present day men of God need to learn from St. Paul. We are called to empower people and not to impoverish them. St. Paul further condemns all forms of laziness not just amongst Men of God but also among the entire children of God. In the same letter to the Thessalonians he reminded his followers, “10 For even when we were with you, we commanded you this: If anyone will not work, neither shall he eat. 11 For we hear that there are some who walk among you in a disorderly manner, not working at all, but are busybodies. 12 Now those who are such we command and exhort through our Lord Jesus Christ that they work in quietness and eat their own bread.” There is no food for a lazy man or woman. For St. Paul an unbeliever is far more better than a lazy person. In his first Letter to Timothy 5:8 St. Paul declares, “If anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. When God created man, the first thing He did was to commit man. He did everything possible to ensure that man does not live a lazy life. In the book of Genesis 2:15 the LORD God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to tend and keep it. At first He even blessed them, and said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply; fill the earth and subdue it; have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth.” (Genesis 1:28) Man was created to be fruitful. There was no room for laziness. Our Lord Jesus Christ went as far as telling his disciples that a lazy person cannot be his disciple: “ By this My Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit; so you will be My disciples” (John 15:8). God is glorified not through our laziness but through hard work and fruitfulness. You cannot be a disciple of Jesus Christ unless you are fruitful and hard working. The worst thing Laziness does is that it leads one into hellfire. In the parable of the Talent the lazy one who received the one talent buried his own talent out of laziness. As others were presenting their talents to their master the lazy servant said to his master, ‘Lord, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you have not sown, and gathering where you have not scattered seed. 25 And I was afraid, and went and hid your talent in the ground. Look, there you have what is yours.’ 26 “But his lord answered and said to him, ‘You wicked and lazy servant, you knew that I reap where I have not sown, and gather where I have not scattered seed. 27 So you ought to have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I would have received back my own with interest. 28 So take the talent from him, and give it to him who has ten talents. 29 ‘For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have abundance; but from him who does not have, even what he has will be taken away. 30 And cast the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’ Imagine, the only crime this servant committed that led him into hell fire was laziness. Laziness is not just a sin, it is an act of wickedness. It is a direct ticket to hellfire. Hard work on the other hand, is profitable. The author of the book of Proverbs 14:23-24 declares, “All hard work brings a profit, but mere talk leads only to poverty. The wealth of the wise is their crown, but the folly of fools yields folly.” Hard work is not just  profitable it is the most rewarding and most fruitful act of humanity. In his second letter to Timothy 2:6 St. Paul wrote, “The hardworking farmer must be first to partake of the crops.” Child of God, as long as you are hardworking you will never labour in vain. You will live to reap the fruit of your labour. And it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!