ABUJA – The Federal Government through the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development is committed to lift about 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years through the diversification of the economy from crude oil to solid minerals exploration and exportation. Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite, made this known when he inaugurated the Ministerial Committee on the Optimisation of Revenue from Mineral Resources Sector. According to him, there are over 44 mineral resources in the country, stressing that if all the revenue generated from them were properly harnessed, they would increase the revenue base of the country. Adegbite tasked the committee to ensure that revenue generated from artisanal miners’ activities were recorded, even as he urged them to work out ways to block leakages from illegal mining accruals. He added that blockage of mineral revenue leakages and proper recording would boost the economy and encourage more people to go into mining which would lift the masses out of poverty. The Committee has the Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Dr Uchechukwu Sampson Ogah, as Chairman. Other members are: Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Mines and Steel Development Dr. Abdulkadir Mu’azu ; Engr. O.S. Nkom-DG, MCO; Representative of Nigerian Society of Mining Engineers; Representative of Nigerian Society of Engineers; Representative of Nigerian Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative; Engr. J.O Adeyemo-Mining Consultant; Representative of Miners Association of Nigeria; Representative of Civil Explosives Dealers Association of Nigeria; Alh. Sani Shehu- Head Mining Group, ACCI; Director, Finance and Accounts MMSD; Director, ASM; Director, IPMT and Director, MI, he said. In his acceptance speech, the Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development and Chairman of the Committee, Ogah thanked the minister for constituting the committee promptly and promised to work assiduously to achieve its mandate of generating revenue and increase the Gross Domestic