LAGOS – Although the Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections have been won and lost, the calls for outright cancellation of the polls have continued to dominate the public space, with some individuals, observer groups, and even the main opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), crying foul over the conduct of the elections. Those who have called for the cancellation of the elections believe that what took place in the two states, cannot be said to be credible, free and fair. One of the major stakeholders in Kogi State, Senator Dino Melaye, on Tuesday, alleged that the governorship and the senatorial district rerun elections that took place in the state were “a civil war and not an election.” Melaye, who claimed that the alleged ‘civil war’ claimed 16 lives, has however, vowed to report the state governor, Yahaya Bello,  the All Progressives Congress (APC) Senatorial candidate, Smart Adeyemi, one Sunday Faleke and others alleged to be connected to the said ‘civil war’ to the international community and then proceed to The Hague. The Senator, who contested for the Senatorial seat for Kogi West District, which was declared inconclusive, in a post on his Twitter handle, wrote, “What we had in Kogi is no election, what we had was a civil war that has claimed 16 lives so far. I will report Bello, Smart Adeyemi, Taofik, Speaker Kolawole and Sunday Faleke to the international community and then proceed to The Hague. This I promise.” He further alleged that the total registered voters for Okene LGA was 118,543 and that the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) collected was 48, 065, stating that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced that APC scored 112, 764 votes, which exceeded PVCs collected with 64,543 votes. “Registered voters of Okene LGA was 118,543 and PVCs collected was 48,065, INEC announced APC scored 112, 764 vote which exceeded PVC collected with 64, 543,” he tweeted. Also, a non-profit organisation committed to the promotion of democratic governance, human rights and civic engagement, Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement, also known as YIAGA AFRICA, called on INEC to conduct a new election in Kogi following reported cases of violence, vote-buying, and manipulation of voters. YIAGA in a statement explained that the elections in the state did not reflect the preferences of voters because they were not given genuine opportunity to exercise their right to vote. According to the observer group, the most serious of the critical incidents reported include: intimidation and harassment of voters and polling officials by unknown armed men and party agents of some identified political parties. “YIAGA AFRICA also received reports of intimidation of journalists and election observer groups like Inclusive Friends, Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room and Search for Common Ground in the full glare of security agencies who made no effort to forestall or reprimand the political thugs. “Ballot box snatching/stuffing: Election infraction, including snatching and stuffing of ballot boxes and papers were reported and confirmed in: PU 006 Anyigba Ward, Dekina LGA, Asuta Ward, Ayetoro Gbede Unit II High Court PU, 005, Odolu Ajaka Ward 1, 22/08/07/015, Oganaji LGEA Primary School, Anyigba Dekina, PU 008 , Olamaboro Ward 3 Ceremonial Square, PU 003 Ukwo Ward 01 Olubun PU, Asuta Ward, PU 003, Obaji Ward 1, Kogi K. K LGA, PU001, Ejule/Alla Ward, Ofu LGA, PU001, Ogaki Ward 06, PU-002,Aiyetoro Gbede, PU-003,Ilemo Mopamuro, PU-004,Lokoja. “Vote buying/bribery: YIAGA AFRICA received reports on vote suppression manifested in the form of denying voters access to polling units by political thugs. This was prevalent in: Aluaja, Iyano Ward in Ibaji LGA, Lagazi/Fam Center Ward which has about 5 Polling units situated closely, LEA Primary Atsagba and Central Primary School Gboloko, PU 005, Agor, PU 006, Ward 01 Ediya – North, Ajaokuta LGA, PU 010, Ward 01, Ankpa Township Ward, PU001 Ugwoda Ward, Idah LGA, PU007 Itale II, Iyano Ward, Ibaji LGA, PU009, Ward 03 Kogi KK, PU- 01,Odole 1 Mopamuro, Ward 007 Unit 5 In Isanlu, Yagba East, Ward 08, PU 01 Isanlu, Yagba East, Ward- 10 Nadazi Farm Centre PU 003, PU-005 Ward- Lokoja B, “Violence and Attack on Observer Groups. WTV observers were unable to observe election-day processes due to issues of violence in or near the polling units in Dekina, Ankpa, Okene, Lokoja and Ibaji LGAs. The critical incidents reported highlight some of the key challenges associated with the conduct of the Kogi 2019 governorship and senatorial election,” the group said. The Coalition of Civil Society Election Observers Group on its part called on INEC to cancel the results of the governorship poll in Bayelsa State and conduct a fresh election. The Coalition Coordinator, Olufemi Lawson, who made the call at a news conference on Thursday in Ikeja, said the result should not be allowed to stand as it did not reflect the choice of Bayelsans. He said reports by the coalition, comprising civil society groups, which monitored the election and some other local and international observers, indicated that the election was not credible as it was characterised by irregularities. The coordinator said there were many proven cases of violence during the election as well as many cases of ballot snatching and stuffing, just as he alleged that there were widespread incidents of vote-buying during the election. While explaining that many residents were disenfranchised as a result of flooding in some communities, Lawson said security agencies did not perform their expected responsibility to ensure the election was peaceful. “We are miffed at the inability and failure of security agencies to intervene or try to stop hoodlums from perpetrating violence, especially in the snatching of ballot boxes and disruption of collation process at the polling units. “The result of the election cannot be said to represent the aspirations of the genuine voters in the state and we therefore call for the cancellation of the results of the governorship election. “We are sad that till this moment, not a single perpetrator or sponsor of the violence, which characterised the election has been arrested, despite the huge damages, including the loss of lives experienced. “We are also calling on all partners, particularly the international community to consider appropriate sanctions, including visa ban, for the perpetrators of violence in the elections and their sponsors,” he said. Also speaking, Deputy President, Campaign for Democracy (CD), Israel Babatunde, said the conduct of Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections left much to be desired. He said both elections were highly militarised and were marked by malpractices. Babatunde said the governorship election in Bayelsa greatly fell short of democratic standards, adding that the result did not reflect the wish of the people. “We are therefore calling for the cancellation of the election as the result did not reflect the wish of Bayelsans,” he said. He said the conduct of both Kogi and Bayelsa elections should compel the need to reform the country’s electoral system for better polls, adding that, if what happened during both elections was anything to go by, INEC might not deliver credible elections in 2023. Former governor of Niger State, Babangida Aliyu, who also called on INEC to cancel the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states said, “We hereby ask INEC and the government in power to annul the elections in the interest of peace, the growth of democracy and fairness. “(This is) for the soul of Salomi Acheju Abuh and of all those who were slain in Kogi and Bayelsa states in the course of last Saturday’s elections by the agents of the states.” It would be recalled that Salome Abuh, a PDP women leader in Ochadamu Ward under Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi State, was set ablaze in her home on Monday by political thugs suspected to be loyal to the APC. The late Abuh was said to be sleeping in her home when political thugs set the building ablaze. Speaking further, Aliyu condemned the killing of the PDP’s Women Leader saying, “We ask the federal government to not only condemn the wanton killings and destruction of properties but to empanel well-balanced committees to probe the dastardly acts and speedily bring those behind the arsons and fish out their sponsors for proper justice.” “As civilised citizens, we note with serious concern that the general conducts of the governorship elections in the two states, where innocent citizens were subjected to crude, brutal and naked use of force, have rubbished the essence of the elections. Therefore we reject the outcomes of the two elections in their entirety. “The conducts and outcomes of the elections in the two states are therefore not the reflections of free choice by the electorate in the two states nor are they in tandem with democratic traditions hence we reject the results posted by INEC in all their ramifications,” he added. On Tuesday, a coalition of over 400 civil rights organisations under the aegis of Transition Monitoring Group, said it would write the International Criminal Court in The Hague, Netherlands and other organs of the United Nations to complain about the violence and killings, which trailed the elections in Kogi State. While calling for a thorough investigation into the conduct of the elections held in Kogi State, the TMG stressed the need for an urgent national conversation and “a public hearing of a sort where Nigerians can voice their minds on the way forward on our elections in Nigeria.” “There is urgent need for election offences commission while asking that all fingered in the attacks be brought to book”, TMG said. The organisation said its overall preliminary assessment shows that several of the old challenges that featured in previous elections were again extant in the governorship and Senatorial rerun elections held in Bayelsa and Kogi states. The chairperson of TMG, Abiola Afolabi, in its preliminary statement on the November 16 governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi States, said the processes were and marred by irregularities including unaccredited voters, snatching and destruction of election materials. She said: “The situation during the elections in Kogi was worrisome, given the attendant frustration and fear unleashed on various citizens who were faced with electoral intimidation, violence and killings as the case may be in the state. “The entire process was a sham and could be best described as elections programmed to fail in the sense that it fell below the standard of a credible election. TMG will not hesitate to officially write International Criminal Count (ICC) and other relevant organs of United Nations to weigh into the matter.” In the view of the foregoing, TMG calls for a thorough investigation into the conduct of the elections held in Kogi state. “The TMG calls for accountability for perpetrators of the violence and conspirators, particularly the security forces who stood by when violence was being unleashed and who also participated in the mayhem on election day, particularly in Kogi State. “The lapses observed were not consistent with the dictates of the constitution and other extant laws that guide the conduct of elections in Nigeria.  As such, we call for immediate and outright cancellation of the election in Kogi State. “Rather, members of the political class are seen to be more concerned about electoral victory but not the conduct of the elections, the neutrality of the security operatives was also in doubt which further put the sanctity of the process in Kogi into contestation. “As a group, we recall with nostalgia the experience in Kenya where several people were maimed, killed and rendered hopeless as a result of the post-election violence aftermath the outcome of the elections.” On Thursday, the PDP caucus in the House of Representatives at a press conference in Abuja said what happened in both states was not an election but outright rape of democracy and suppression of the people’s will through coercion. Chairman of the PDP Caucus in the House, Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers), who addressed newsmen, also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to take actions that will stop the slide of the country into anarchy as there is the growing sense of insecurity and injustice which will definitely give birth to the lawlessness that Nigeria has witnessed in the Kogi and Bayelsa polls. He urged the President to forward an executive bill to the National Assembly, on electoral reforms, which must include the compulsory use of card readers in all polling units as a way of addressing electoral offences worsened under his leadership. Speaking further on the despicable conduct of the elections, Chinda said: “We are therefore joining our voice to the clarion call across the land and even internationally, for the cancellation, in its entirety of the Kogi state elections conducted on November 16, 2019. “The novel and indeed, criminal conduct of “community voting” in Bayelsa State, a situation where political entrepreneurs with the active connivance of security agencies force people to vote for preferred candidates offends the fundamental human rights of people to choice as well as the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which all security agents, President Muhammadu Buhari and INEC officials swore to protect. This by any stretch of the imagination, cannot be regarded, as an election. There is, therefore, no reason to allow the Bayelsa elections to stand. These elections make Nigeria a laughing stock,” he added. Sunny Onuesoke, a public affairs analyst and a former governorship aspirant, said the elections in both states were a sham. “It is an unfortunate turn of event of our democratic experience. The elections were marred by violence, ballot snatching and killings in both states and a total disregard for due process by INEC in connivance with the military. On a scale of one to ten, my assessment would be two over ten.” Onuesoke, who is also a chieftain of the PDP in Delta State, alleged that both elections were characterised by massive rigging, “and calling of fictitious results, in what can only be described as a broad daylight robbery by the ruthless rigging machinery of the APC-led federal government. “Unfortunately, such elections were supervised and conducted by learned university professors who without hesitation and every sense of pleasure penalise student for malpractice in exams and test papers. Yet, same lecturers are the ones supervising over the biggest fraud and malpractices of a nation,” he added. The PDP, on Thursday, joined  in the call for the outright cancellation of the elections in Bayelsa and Kogi States, noting that they are products of bloodshed and do not reflect the true wishes and aspiration of the people of the states. Uche Secondus, the National Chairman of the party, at a press conference in Abuja, also demanded the immediate cancellation of the Kogi West Senatorial election, describing it as the biggest fraud of the century. Secondus said the PDP holds that INEC and the Police high command must be made to answer charges of electoral fraud and crime against humanity at the appropriate quarters. He said: “As the world witnessed, the official conspiracies, bloodletting and mindless killing of innocent citizens by agents of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration in connivance with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to aid the forceful seizure of power in the November 16 Kogi and Bayelsa State governorship elections, clearly show that our democracy is under severe attack. “In an apparent organised attack, government-controlled Police and military, working for the APC, deployed dangerous assault weapons, including helicopters to coordinate the violent invasion of polling units with maximum force; shooting, killing and maiming unarmed civilians, who were called out by government to perform their civic responsibilities at the elections. “The world watched with horror as killer security agents brutalized voters and carted away ballot boxes to government facilities where results were written in favour of the APC and handed to a heavily compromised INEC, which has become part of the crime, to announce.” The party, however, called on the international community as well as international organisations including, the United Nations (UN), the European Union (EU), Commonwealth of Nations, the African Union (AU), ECOWAS to immediately impose sanctions, including travel bans, on the INEC and the Police high commands for abusing their offices and allegedly aiding or allowing acts that led to electoral fraud and violence in the elections. According to Secondus, the primary duty of INEC and the Police is to ensure free, fair and credible election. “This they observed in the breach as even reported by agents, voters, stakeholders and independent observers in the elections. They must therefore be made to face the consequences to serve as deterrent to others. “The leadership of the PDP once more commends the people of Kogi and Bayelsa states for their resilience and resistance against oppressive forces during the election. Such patriotism will never be in vain. “Our leadership also condoles with the families of compatriots who were murdered by the APC. Indeed, their death can never be in vain as the mandate for which they were killed will be surely retrieved. “Moreover, somebody someday will bear the full sentence of guilt at the appropriate quarters, be it within the ambit of our domestic laws or those of the international laws. “In the meantime, we urge all members of the PDP to remain strong and undeterred as we collective exert ourselves in the defence of our nation’s democracy,” he added. The PDP has vowed to file legal actions in court against officials of INEC and police for their various roles in the just concluded governorship elections in the two states. The party said it would also file legitimate actions against identified INEC and security officials who allegedly aided the APC in the violent rigging of the election. Specifically, PDP said: “Our party has been made aware of the roles played by the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, as well as the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, in the governorship elections.” The National Working Committee of the party, in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, maintained that there was no way the PDP would fold its hands and watch the mandates clearly given to its candidates, Musa Wada in Kogi state and Senator Douye Diri in Bayelsa State, “left in the hands of repressive usurpers, manipulators and murderers.”