If you compared Manchester United’s Premier League-winning sides of 2011 and 2013 to the current squad, it shows the journey the club have gone on in the last decade. At the end of 2012/13, Sir Alex Ferguson had just led the club back to the top of the Premier League, and fans were looking forward to seeing how the next generation could replace the likes of Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes, Nemanja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand – as well as Ferguson himself. Since Ferguson’s retirement, however, things haven’t gone to plan under David Moyes, Louis Van Gaal, Jose Mourinho and now Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. So when we look back on the top ten players to play for the club over the last decade, the list is understandably focused towards the first three years when United were winning Premier Leagues and reaching Champions League finals. But that is not to say it’s all been doom and gloom in the six years since Ferguson left. The club has won the League Cup, FA Cup, and Europa League – and who can forget the individual moments like that famous night in Paris last season. Some world-class players have graced the Old Trafford dressing room, too. So which players make the list of the top ten players of the last decade? 10. Marcus Rashford There are players of better ability than Rashford to miss out on this list, but he makes the top ten for the influence he has had on the club since his debut in 2016. By the end of the decade he will have played close to 200 times for the club, having a direct hand in nearly 100 goals. His rise from the academy continues the fine tradition at Old Trafford of young players becoming first team regulars, and at only 22 Rashford has a bright future ahead. No academy graduate has had such an impact on the first team since the famous Class of 92, and his nerveless penalty at PSG will go down in United history. He should get even better in the next ten years. 9. Paul Pogba Another player who divides opinion, and again there are players left out of this list who have had more of an impact on the team over the last ten years. However, his club-record signing in 2016 is probably the most important addition the club have made in the post-Ferguson era – on and off the field. On his day, Pogba is easily United’s best player of the current squad. His World Cup winner’s medal is testament to the influence he can have on a team. Of course, he can be accused of inconsistency, but a Paul Pogba in full-flow is key to any success United have. His role in the 2017 Europa League triumph, the club’s best moment since Ferguson retired, shouldn’t be underestimated. Now, he must try to re-find the form he displayed when he first re-joined. 8 and 7. Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic
Former Manchester United team-mates Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic
Most of Ferdinand and Vidic’s time at Old Trafford came before this decade, but that doesn’t diminish their contributions since 2010. Two impressive Premier League title wins in 2011 and 2013 were helped in large parts by the unstoppable partnership of these two defensive rocks. Both players improved with age, and United’s defensive issues since they left only highlight their contribution. Just as when they were paired on the pitch, they were far more effective together. So it would be wrong to pick one over the other here as they take equal standing in the top ten. 6. Ryan Giggs Giggs retired in 2014, but only after he’d helped United to their 20th League title. The club legend broke the United appearance record in 2011, going on to make 672 in total. His experience in the 2011 and 2013 title wins were vital, and he even took charge of three games as interim player-manager after David Moyes’ sacking. Giggs may have been in the twilights of his career from 2010-onwards, but his quality never dipped, and what United would give for someone of his experience now. 5. Zlatan Ibrahimovic Even well into his 30s, Ibrahimovic provided a touch of class during his short spell at United, giving a much-needed spark to a frustrating period for the club. A winner on his debut in the Community Shield was followed by a winning brace in the EFL Cup final. He also added FA Cup and Europa League medals to his collection, despite being injured for both finals. An impressive record of 29 goals and 10 assists for the club in just 53 appearances show how prolific he was, and United have arguably lacked a big game player of his type since he left for LA Galaxy in March 2018. 4. Michael Carrick Carrick dances with the Cup
Not many players get the unanimously-glowing tributes Carrick received after he retired in 2018. Yet that was the measure of United’s ever-present in midfield since 2006. For a player who had to compete with arguably England’s most talented generation of midfielders at international level throughout his career – plus the likes of Paul Scholes at Old Trafford – it is only right Carrick got the recognition his talent deserved towards the end of his time at Old Trafford. For Carrick to compete with those illustrious teammates and hold down a place in midfield, before becoming indispensable after they retired shows just how important he was to the club. 3. Robin van Persie His title-winning goals against Aston Villa would be enough to get on this list on their own – especially that perfect volley – but Van Persie offered United so much more than his incredible hat-trick at the end of the season. Signed from Arsenal to win the Premier League back from the other side of Manchester, Van Persie proved the difference for the United side that were denied the title on the final day the season before. It’s a squad that probably shouldn’t have won the Premier League, but Sir Alex Ferguson’s genius and Van Persie’s fresh impetus were crucial. 2. Wayne Rooney The bicycle kick against City. The penalty at Blackburn to secure the 2010/11 title. The ball for Van Persie against Villa in 2013. The half-way line goal at West Ham. Captaining United to his first FA Cup title. The free kick at Stoke to become the club’s outright top scorer. Considering everything Rooney did for United since 2010, it’s amazing he’s not first in the list… 1. David de Gea De Gea has been first choice between the sticks since he joined United in 2011, and he’s not disappointed since. Four Sir Matt Busby Player of the Year awards, three Players’ Player of the Year awards, one Premier League Golden Glove, and five PFA Team of the Year inclusions are just the highlights of his time at the club. With 131 clean sheets in 375 appearances to complete the picture of how influential De Gea has been, nobody else really comes close for the top Manchester United player of the decade.