Vitalis Ugoh Calabar – Ntufam Hilliard Eta, national vice chairman (South-South) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has described as null and void the purported suspension of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, the deputy governor, Philip Shaibu, and others. Eta’s position contradicts the position of the APC national secretariat as announced on Wednesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who said the party had ratified the suspension. Going by the above explanation, it means that the leadership of the party was divided on the issue. Eta was speaking with newsmen in Calabar concerning the current crisis rocking the ruling party in Edo State. Eta said the South-South zone of the party would soon convene an emergency meeting to ensure that the crisis bedevilling the party in Edo State was resolved. He said: “I am quite shy about commenting on the crisis in Edo State. I had wanted time to do what is needful in terms of reconciling the crisis, address some grey areas in the crisis that has engulfed Edo State. “You may want to know that apart from the National Executive Committee, it is the Zonal Executive Committee that sees to this kind of issue. “We intend to convene an emergency zonal executive committee meeting to look into the whole matter.” He added: “I am not in a position to take sides in the matter in Edo State, but let me say I have read and seen on TV and newspapers, as well as in the social media the various sanctions and suspensions, starting from the national chairman, who was said to have been suspended, to the governor, his deputy, the secretary to government, the chairman and even the state secretary of the party. “My take on this is that none of those processes lived to the expectations of the constitution of the party. So, as for me as an individual, they are all null and void.” Eta said there were constitutional provisions and processes that must be followed for any member, more so an elected member, of the party to be suspended. According to him, “The truth of the matter is that political parties are made up of human beings. There are constitutional processes and steps that you take before you can sanction people. “Like I said, one of the greatest ingredients in the process is that every person that is accused must be given an opportunity to react. “I have not seen or read where people were given the opportunity to come and defend themselves in this process. “You make dictatorial tyrannical? The whole process is undemocratic, null and void. “It requires the constitution to give anyone that has been suspended seven days within which to defend the allegations after the committee returns its report to the relevant national committee which will then take a decision whether to sanction or not to sanction the individual so petitioned. “The moment that is done and the one who was petitioned was not satisfied with the process, he or she has the right to appeal to the next superior executive committee. “For instance, if a petition comes from the ward level, it can go up to the National Executive Committee (NEC) by appeals. So, what I see on TV or read in the papers, none of them had followed the party’s constitution.” Eta who declined comments concerning the alleged suspension of the top politicians in the state by the National Working Committee (NWC), said he was not abreast with what transpired during the meeting. Eta said he would gather enough facts about the meeting in order to make informed comments about it. While suing for peace in the state chapter of the APC, the zonal chairman said, “What we need to do now is that we really need not wash our dirty linen in public. “What we rather should do is to find ways and means of reconciling our people so that the only state that we have in the South-South will not be lost to the opposition, so that after the Bayelsa election we will now have two states controlled by the APC in the South-South. This is my take on these matters.”