Harry Redknapp thinks the Premier League’s top four is already set, with Manchester United, Arsenal and Tottenham all set to miss out on a Champions League spot this season. The top four of Liverpool, Leicester, Chelsea and Manchester City have already made a notable breakaway from the rest of the division.
City, currently in fourth, are eight points clear of surprise package Sheffield United who are in fifth, level on points with Arsenal and one ahead of Manchester United. Spurs, who have managed a top four finish in each of the last four seasons, are 14th in the table after just three wins from 12 games so far this season and 11 points off the Champions League places. However, Redknapp is more optimistic about Tottenham’s chances of a recovery than either United’s or Arsenal’s given their recent performances. ‘Tottenham have it all on now to get in the top four this year,’ Redknapp wrote for the Sun. ‘The only thing now in their favour is that Arsenal look so poor. Chelsea are doing great, they’re going to be challenging. Leicester are going to be bang in there. ‘But you’re looking at Arsenal, and Manchester United, and wondering if they are going to make it this year. ‘I can see both of those two not making the top four unless there is a big improvement. ‘It’s been a disappointing season so far for Spurs, I really thought they would be close to Manchester City and Liverpool and challenging. ‘It’s difficult. The players haven’t hit the form they did last year. I’m a big fan of the manager and hopefully they can turn it around.’ With Manchester City hosting Chelsea on Saturday, the chasing pack will see this weekend as a chance to gain ground on the current top four. Spurs go to West Ham in the early kick-off on Saturday, while Arsenal host Southampton that afternoon and Manchester United go to Sheffield United on Sunday in a big to overtake the Blades. The bookmakers agree with Redknapp’s assessment that the current top four are likely to remain in the Champions League spots, with Chelsea and Leicester both odds-on with Betfair for a top four finish. Arsenal and Tottenham are btoh 4/1 to crash the party, with Man Utd just behind at 5/1, while Sheffield United’s chances have been dismissed at 200/1.