Emir of Kano,Alhaji Lamido Sanusi Lamido,has emphasized the need for the north to give serious attention to girl-child education,saying its progress is religiously tied to how best to educate the female child from the cradle. He spoke in Lagos at the 10anniversary of Adesola Solarin Majekodunmi Foundation,where he also said there was need for clear political will and determination on the parts of the leaders to build consensus among traditional rulers,elite and business class with a view to driving home the growth of the north through girl-child. He urged  northern governors to consider increased budgetary allocation for girl-child education,while private sector and relevant agencies should also support the initiative with investment. The monarch,who played down tradition as factor responsible for  low girl-child education in the north,said there could be massive investment in the construction of girls schools and training of female teachers to cushion the effect of same. He commended the Kaduna state government for earmarking 40 percent of its budget on education,saying such gesture would encourage girl-child education. He also implored other northern governors to borrow a leaf from the initiative of the Kaduna state governor,adding that the north must be prepared for its future through increased premium on girl-child education. Also speaking,Dr.Christopher Kolade,former Nigeria’s high commissioner to United Kingdom,said female child is not an extension of male child. He counsel female child to be ambitious and determined to  succeed in their studies with a view to securing enviable future for herself. He commended the foundation for its support for girl-child education,saying such salutary action will significantly boost the nation’s education section. In her remarks,the founder of the foundation,Mrs.Adesola Solarin Majekodunmi,said the foundation had done well in impacting the lives of the girl-child through education and enlightenment. She disclosed that in the last 10years,the foundation had offered scholarships  to  17 girl-child in the country,adding that it would not rest on its oars to increase this number as well as add value to the lives of young female folks in Nigeria. She urged more Nigerians to assist the foundation with funds in order to give increased assistance to girl-child in the country.