Manchester United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer might be forced to welcome outcast defender Chris Smalling to Old Trafford next summer. Smalling was sent out on a season-long loan to Roma over the summer, as Solskjaer did not plan to give him first-team football at United this season. And while the 29-year-old has impressed the club during his appearances in Serie A there have been no offers from the Italian side to make the move permanent. There had been reports in Italy that the Giallorossi were looking to open talks with United about turning the loan deal into a permanent move, but according to Sky Sports, the Red Devils have received no bids for Smalling from Roma. The Italian side needed a centre-back in the summer after they decided to sell Greece defender, Konstantinos Manolas, to Napoli for £32million. Smalling was seen as an ideal choice and it is understood Roma paid United €3m (£2.7m) to loan the player for the season. And while it has taken him time to establish himself in the Italian capital the player has quickly won over fans with his performances for the club. Smalling suffered a muscle problem in training before being able to make his debut, but since his recovery he has gone on to become an important player for Roma boss Paulo Fonseca. However, the defender, who has 31 caps for England, has fallen considerably far down the pecking order at United under Solskjaer. Solskjaer currently has several centre-backs at his disposal and has no use for Smalling, who was deemed surplus to requirements in the summer. The Norwegian is looking to establish a centre-back pairing of Harry Maguire and Victor Lindelof. And he also sees youngster Axel Tuanzebe, Phil Jones, Eric Bailly and Marus Rojo ahead of Smalling. United only managed to add three players to his squad this summer and the club are expected to be active in the next two windows as Solskjaer continues trying to build his side. The sale of Smalling would provide extra funds to help with this rebuild, and any cash could be added to the £74m the club received from the sale of Romelu Lukaku, which United chief Ed Woodward has already allowed to be reinvested into the squad. And while Roma have not begun talks about sealing a permanent move to Italy, Solskjaer will no doubt be hoping Smalling’s continued performances in Serie A could see other sides take notice too. Roma currently sit third in the table and have only conceded two goals in the league in their last four games.