Lagos – There is a looming policy summersault in the nation’s troubled power sector over ongoing Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme initiated by the Federal Government recently. Daily Independent learnt that the Federal Government is displeased with the running of the scheme and is on the verge of reviewing it any moment from now. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) issued permits to Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) on April 5, 2019 that requires all electricity distribution licensees to engage MAPs that would assist, as investors, in closing the metering gap and thus eliminating the practice of estimated billing in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry. The causes of the government’s displeasure are certain infractions, especially the snail speed which has characterised the supply of meters under the scheme thus confining more Nigerians to estimated electricity billing. A source told Daily Independent that the Minister of Power, Engineer Sale Mamman, would soon set up a committee to review the MAP scheme with a view to giving it a new lease of life. The source said: “Parts of the mandate of the committee would be to beam the light on some of the non-performing contractors of MAP and replace them with vibrant ones who would fast-track the distribution of meters to electricity consumers in the country. “The minister is very passionate about incremental energy and supply of electricity proportionately through the MAP scheme which would discourage estimated billing in the country.” The ongoing MAP scheme, which was meant to put an end to the metering challenges faced by customers in the country kicked off on May 1, 2019. Babatunde Fashola, former minister of power, said 121 companies submitted bids for the MAP, for which 60 were shortlisted and 14 approved. The obligation to ensure that all electricity consumers are metered remains with the electricity distribution companies. The regulation is expected to fast track a closure of the metering gap and encourage the development of independent and competitive meter services in the electricity industry. As assets with a technically useful life of 10-15 years, the regulation provides for the third-party financing of meters under a permit issued by NERC, and amortisation over a period of 10 years. The electricity distribution companies, in line with their licensing terms and conditions, are obliged to achieve their metering targets as set by the commission under the new regulation. It is to be noted that there are no free meters even under the current tariff regime as all customers, including those on estimated billing, currently pay for a return on the investment made by electricity distribution companies on meters in their networks. Under the new MAP regulation, customer classes shall be amended to ensure that customers only pay for meters when a meter is physically installed in their premises. The electricity bill of customers provided with a meter under the new regulatory framework shall comprise of two parts – energy charge and metering service charge. The payment of metering service charge will be removed from the customer electricity bill upon the full amortisation of the meter asset over its useful life. All faulty meters are expected to be repaired or replaced free of charge within two working days, except in instances where it is established that the customer is responsible for the damage. In pursuit of promoting local content, the new MAP regulation mandates the investors to acquire a minimum of 30 percent of their metering volume from indigenous meter manufacturers. This local content threshold may be adjusted by the commission from time to time in line with the verified manufacturing volume of local manufacturers. The eleven electricity distribution companies are expected to, within 120 days from the effective date of the regulation, engage the services of MAPs towards the achievement of their three-year metering targets prescribed by the commission. About six million meters have been projected that would be provided under the Meter Asset Provider scheme between the year 2019 to 2020. There have been cases of estimated billing and complaints about consumers not getting their meters on time, even after completing all the necessary procedures. Power distribution companies in the country installed 26,000 meters under the Meter Asset Provider scheme hitherto, though over 250,000 applications were received from customers. There were concerns that MAPs were not comfortable with the approved pricing for the meter specification to be supplied on the strength that prices of the facility were uniformly fixed. They also expressed fears that the recent increase in the tariff for imported meters from 10 percent to 45 percent may affect their ability to meet the supply. Engineer Ettu Mohammed, executive director, Consistent Energy Limited, told Daily Independent that the MAP scheme was nothing but fraud aimed at covering the gaps of the distribution licensee and the Federal Government. He said: “I foresee a problem when Nigerians start asking questions on how they will recoup their investment in procuring meters. “Why did I say that? Before now, precisely in 2014, there was Credit Advance Payment Metering Initiative where DisCos’ customers procured meters and the cash was returned with an interest of 12% in terms of energy excluding the cost of installation and materials which will be deducted. “This new one means Nigerians would invest N40,000 or N70,000 to procure meter which would be the property of the DisCos and the Federal Government because the Federal Government still retains 40% of the power outfits. “It means citizens are being forced to invest in business from which they would never get to recoup their cash.” Comrade Chris Okonkwo, president of Senior Staff of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSEAC), described the Meter Asset Providers (MAP) scheme as an interloping, interfering policy in the power privatisation process, on the ground that the power distribution companies are to provide meters in line with the contract they signed with the Federal Government. He said: “For you now to bring another contract in between by bringing in a third party outside the DisCos and the government, where was it featured in the original contract? “Where has it taken into account that there is a running contract that should have other stakeholders around it? “DisCos, customers, Nigerians and, of course, the regulators, including the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), are those who should be interested in it. “By the way, if you change the terms of contract, it means that you are indirectly vitiating it. If you are removing a part of your responsibilities and warehousing it somewhere else, what is the impact of that on the original contract? “The person enunciating that particular policy should explain the legal technicalities of same which they have not done. “They are riding on the back that customers want meters and they can throw anything out to get them meters. It will keep customers’ meters and complicate matters.” On his part, Kola Balogun, chairman/CEO, MOMAS Electricity Meter Manufacturing Company (MEMMCOL), said meters imported into the country under the MAP was a total contravention of the Local Content Act. He said: “I am confirming to you that none of the MAP licensee has approached me to buy meter of 30 percent provided by regulation despite signing a Memorandum of Understanding. “So, the 35 percent levy by the Federal Government is a welcome development to increase local capability, it is a serious issue which is a contravention of local content for them to even import meter without fulfilling the 30 percent initial order from the local factory. “I’m telling you that indigenous meters have passed all the tests required, validated and confirmed for consumption by all agencies responsible for the testing.”