ABUJA – Civil Servants in the country have called on the government to ensure that contributions of employees under the Contributory Pension Schemes (CPS) are promptly remitted to the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) in compliance with the 2014 Pension Reform Act. This formed part of the recommendations of the communiqué issued at the end of the 41st National Council on Establishment (NCE) meeting held in Asaba, Delta State recently. The meeting was presided over by the Acting Head of the Civil Service of the Federation and Chairman of Council, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, and attended by Heads of Service from 32 States in the Federation including representatives of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The Chairman of Federal Civil Service Commission, National Salaries and Wages Commission, Corp Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps(FRSC) and other Federal and State delegates also participated in the meeting. A communiqué issued yesterday in Abuja by the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, urged governments at both Federal and State levels to provide opportunities for public and civil servants to develop and improve on their skills or capabilities through regular training and re-training. The communiqué also appealed to the government to pay salaries regularly as a way of motivating workers for optimum performance. As part of the recommendations, government is urged to set up a Committee to examine issues of review of entry point, internship programme and any other related matters in the civil service. “The Committee shall also assess the appropriateness/ relevance of regulatory and professional certificate in the Schemes of Service for determining entry, advancement / promotion and general career progression in the Civil / Public Service. “Government should consider establishing regulatory bodies for relevant professions for the delivery of quality Service with a view to ensuring that those employed in the Service perform efficiently; placement of officers on salary grade levels on entry is based on job content after thorough job evaluation,” according to the communiqué. The communiqué enjoined officers to improve on their skills as a way of advancing in their career and not through membership of associations/ professional bodies. The communiqué further revealed that NCE would set up a Monitoring Committee on Establishment Matters to ensure that the Services comply strictly with its approval, as it advised the National Assembly not to pass bills that boarder on establishment matters, as such issues require cursory examination of each subject at the NCE, where they are deliberated upon before appropriate decisions are taken to avoid conflict with extant Rules and Regulations in the Servic