ADO-EKITI – There is uneasy calm in Ekiti State University over an alleged plan by management to review the appointment of some workers. Daily Independent learnt that among the staff were those employed during the immediate past administration of  Prof Samuel Oye Bandele as Vice Chancellor. The recruitment had generated controversy at that time as the then governor Ayo Fayose ordered the suspension of the processes. Although much was not known about how the matter was resolved. It was also learnt the decision was allegedly to among other things pave way for implementation of the much talked about hazard allowance by the staff. The Academics Staff Union of Universities, EKSU chapter, had recently expressed concern over inability of the management to pay their salaries and other benefits. The union also threatened to resort the industrial action if the management failed to accede to their demand. The ASUU chairman, Dr Kayode Arogundade, disclosed that the monthly wage bill of the university had increased from N380 million to over N502 million, while the monthly subvention from government stood at N260 million, leaving the university to grapple to make up for the N262m shortfall internally. But the EKSU’s Public Relations Officer, Bode Olofinmuagun, in his reaction, dismissed the allegation, stressing that the management has no plan to sack or demote any worker. “There is no tension on campus over sack issue, I am on campus as I speak with you. The university is peaceful and I am not aware of any such plan,”, he said. The source, who was employed as an academic staff said: “yes, it was true, the management will soon issued out sack letters to over 500 staff because of complains that the university was overstaffed. “We have been notified and anytime from now, the letters of disengagement will be distributed and this has been creating panic and tension in the university “, he said. It was also gathered that some lecturers, who circumvented academic process to earn their professorial titles and other positions, will be demoted.