ABUJA – As part of effort to provide stable and steady electricity for smooth operations, the European Union in collaboration with the Kaduna State government on Thursday commissioned a 47.5 Kilowatts Solar system for Doka rural hospital, Kachia Local Government Area of the state. Speaking at the occasion, Engr.  Mamman Saleh, Minister of Power, said the success of the project is a result of policies and regulatory instruments put in place by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, which allow for close collaboration with development partners and private sector. According to the minister, the current efforts have provided solid foundation for the growth of electricity industry, stressing that the nation’s grid power generation capacity currently stood at over 7500MW, while the transmission capacity has also improved to 7000MW. He said the project, tagged Kaduna Solar for Health, is conceived under a technical assistance programme, through the Nigerian Solar Programme, which is a bilateral cooperation programme that is funded by the European Union and implemented by the Department for International Department (DFID). The minister also said the project was implemented under a framework, which provide sustainable, reliable and affordable energy supply consistent with Nigeria’s commitment to achieve United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goal 7. “The projects demonstrate how partnership and collaboration among stakeholders can lead to concrete results. In this case the Department For international Department partnered with Kaduna State government to develop this project, providing reliable electricity supply, which will improve the lives of people through improved; healthcare, education, water and jobs creation. “It is therefore not a coincidence that we are gathered here to commission this 45.7Kw solar energy system at Doka rural hospital. Our being here today reflect a deliberate demonstration of the importance both the state federal government attached to provision of electricity in remote and underserved rural communities all over Nigeria using distributed power generation with locally available resource such as solar. It also demonstrates our appreciation for the support received by the projects from our partners. “It is important to note the roles being played by the federal and state governments by providing the enabling environment in the form of policy and regulatory frameworks, and basic infrastructural support such as land allocation and provision of access road.” Ketil Karlsen, Ambassador, Head of Delegation, European Union delegation to Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States, (ECOWAS), said the EU has always been a strong supporter of innovative initiatives aimed at accelerating the development and improving the lives of Nigerian people. He described the project as killing two birds with one stone as it combines access to renewable energy and access to basic healthcare. “Access to affordable energy is a key driver of development and access to effective health service delivery is a cornerstone of any society,” he said. Also speaking, Mallam Nasir El-Rufa’i, the Kaduna State governor, noted that the success of the project would not have been possible without the funding provided by the UK Department for International Development. The governor, who was represented by Hadiza Balarabe, the Deputy Governor of Kaduna State, said the collaboration between DFID and KDSG has proven to be a huge success as hospitals have recorded a considerable increase in their quality of service and patient patronage. “With access to reliable power supply, these 34 Public Healthcare (PHCs) have touched the lives of over 155,000 residents of Kaduna State” he added. El-Rufa’i declared that with the additional grant of 10 million Euros from the European Union delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS and the state government’s commitment of $8 million, the Kaduna Solar for Health will be extended to all state owned rural and isolated general hospitals as well as an additional 221 PHCs across the state, bringing the total solar capacity to 3.96MW.