LAGOS – With speculations that there will be threat to peace in the November 16 gubernatorial election in Kogi State, an observer group, Challenge Parenthood Initiative (CPI), has allayed such fear among the people.
Eunice Abimbola Abogun, Executive Director, CPI and vice chairperson of Kogi Network of Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), told DAILY INDEPENDENT on Wednesday that enough security arrangements had been put in place, while flashpoints had been identified and report made to the police and other security agencies to beef up security in those areas to avert possible breakdown of law and order during the period.
Abogun, whose organisation had partnered National Democratic Institute on ‘Stop Violence Against Women In Politics’, stressed that her group and other coalitions had made advocacies and campaigns to stakeholders to avoid violence during the coming election.
She maintained that they had been able to meet with religious leaders and traditional rulers as well as other stakeholders, seeking their cooperation in the fight against violence during the election.
“The stakeholders have assured us of the security of lives and property of Kogi people, especially the women. We have also in the course of our advocacy identified areas that are flashpoints, which include, Ayingba, Kaba, Okene and some parts of Lokoja, the State capital. We have informed the security agencies like the police to bring in enough enforcement to curtail any possible violence or breakdown of law and order.
“Police has assured us of their cooperation and I can assure you that they are on top of their job and would do everything within their power to ensure that Kogi election would be violent free.
“The observe groups are ready for the election and I am sure that Kogi people, the electorate, political parties and all other stakeholders are ready.
“My group is also part of Nigeria Civil Situation Room, a coalition of other civil society groups, deployed to Kogi State for this election and in few days from now, the situation room would be opened for the election. I must say that everyone should be rest assured because there would be no violence come November 16 and even after the election,” she said.