The winless streak that Arsenal are on at the moment is doing no favor whatsoever for Unai Emery. Nevertheless, the hosts should feel confident of returning to winning ways this week as they will be locking horns with a far from convincing Eintracht Frankfurt side. Their only recent encounter was the reverse fixture of this clash which Arsenal won 3-0. Arsenal came back from behind to salvage no more than a point in their most recent matchup with Southampton, after the scores read 2-2 at the last blast of the whistle. To be frank, despite enjoying home advantage, the Gunners were on the back foot throughout that game. They would have been deprived of all three points as well, had it not been for a late equalizer from Alexander Lacazette. The hosts are now without a win in their last six games in all competitions. Be that as it may, Unai Emery’s men are yet to taste defeat in their Europa campaign and are sporting a four-point cushion at the top as of now. It is also worth mentioning that Arsenal are yet to feature at the losing end at the Emirates Stadium this season. On the other hand, Eintracht Frankfurt are currently third in Group F, level on points with Standard Liege who are second. The away side, however, will be making the trip to North London on the back of a disappointing 2-0 defeat at the hands of Wolfsburg in their most recent matchup. That too, at home. Furthermore, Adi Hutter’s men are on dismal form at the moment. They have not had a taste of success in their previous three games on the trot, and have just two wins to boast of from their past six as well. The German outfit did not fare well in their previous meeting either. As such count on Arsenal to make no mistake in securing the bragging rights in this one. In addition, the hosts have been drawing the ire of their supporters for being frail in the defensive third. The Gunners have conceded as many as they have scored in their last three games here. They have not kept a clean sheet in their past two European matchups here as well.