Abuja – As Nigerians continue to react to the Hate Speech Bill before the upper chamber of the National Assembly, the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, who sponsored the bill, on Sunday said the death penalty proposed for anyone found culpable of hate speech would be amended by the Senate when the bill receives legislative input. Abdullahi, who made this known in a statement in Abuja, explained that the bill would undergo some fine-tuning to ensure that its provisions to be passed into law reflected the views of Nigerians. He added that the Senate welcomed contributions and inputs by critics and supporters of the bill as these would go a long way towards giving Nigerians the much awaited law to address the disturbing trend of hate speech. He noted that hate speech had led to the death of many and was also the major factor behind depression and suicide in the country. “We have followed closely arguments for and against the Hate Speech Bill, and seen the reason why some kicked against it. “Given the high respect which we have for Nigerians, we will make amendment to the death penalty aspect that most Nigerians objected to, so that a bill that meets their expectations is passed into law. “Clearly, from the conversations, Nigerians agree that we have a problem in the society today as a result of hate speech which has fuelled so many killings and violence, and is responsible for cases of depression and suicides,” Abdullahi stated in the statement. Citing a World Health Organisation report, Abdullahi disclosed that Nigeria, which is the seventh-largest country in the world, “has Africa’s highest rate of depression and ranks fifth in the world frequency of suicide”. He further explained that the proposed Independent National Commission for the Prohibition of Hate Speech, when established, would guard against every act of discrimination against Nigerians by way of victimisation. The lawmaker said: “The overall concern is to curb violence and unnecessary loss of lives and livelihoods of Nigerians due to hate-induced violence.”