Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, a former minister for works spoke with JOY ANIGBOGU on the state of the nation, the need to fund the judiciary, restructure at least three sectors of the economy and other important issues. Excerpts: The South-East region thinks has been saying that for the sake of equity and justice, presidency should be zoned to the area in 2023. What is your view about this? Each zone of the country should be able to tell Nigerians what it can offer, differently from what we see now, and then Nigeria will take a decision. It is not going to be a regional matter but personality matter. We have had enough of zonal representation, what we need now is personality. Each zone should look for personality that can change the future of this country, which is what really matters, it’s possible and achievable but we need someone who is competent and knowledgeable on what to do. It doesn’t matter which zone that person comes from, let each zone bring out its best and let Nigerians access them. Some Nigerians are of the view that Buhari should have handed over to the vice president before proceeding on his trip abroad, more so when some documents had to taken to him abroad for assent. What is your take on this issue? It is not unusual, wherever the president is, that is where Nigeria is. It is the symbol of Nigeria as a nation, even if it is in his aircraft, that is where Nigeria government is. Even if he signs in Nigeria house in London, that is where Nigeria is. We should focus on the problem we have in the country and leave mundane issues. We should think less of things that have no benefits and focus on the over 100 million poor Nigerians; focus on how to develop the nation and leave personality issues. There is nothing like office of the vice president in the constitution. I read in the newspaper that they sacked 34 aides of the vice president. There is no aide to the vice president, every member of staff that is working in Aso Rock, is a staff of the presidency. There is no office of the vice president in the Nigerian Constitution. It was also made clear during Obasanjo’s period that, every staff working in Aso Rock belonged to the presidency, they were just on posting. There is indeed no office of the vice president in the constitution. He is there at the pleasure of the president. I appeal to Prof. Osinbajo, he is knowledgeable in Nigeria history. He should not listen to people who would want to push him to fight his boss, he should not listen to them, because he is going to lose out. He should ignore them and do whatever the president asks him to do, which is why he is there. He should not to dictate what to do or to determine what to do. It is at the pleasure of Mr. President that he survives. Whatever the man wants him to do, that is what he would do. They are home breakers. They did it to Moshood Abiola, and at the end of the day, look at what befell him. They are noise makers. He should not let them deceive him into thinking that he is so important, he cannot afford to confront the president. He is his boss and would remain his boss and the only person to listen to and nobody else. There is also the worry that the 9th Assembly has become an appendage of the executive arm of government because the 8th Assembly made sure the president handed over to the vice president when he was proceeding on leave. What is your view? They are not part of the presidency. They are representing their various constituencies. They have no control over them. It is the constituencies that have control over the members of National Assembly and not the presidency. They are the people that they owe allegiance to and would listen to, not Mr. President. Lawmakers have mandate from their constituencies. They have responsibility to their constituencies and not the President. They would not take decisions at the detriment of the constituency because in another four years, they would go back to their constituencies. It is better for them to listen to their constituencies rather than the President. What can you say to the latest story that Mr. President is working on his tenure elongation? It is not possible. Do not believe that lie because it would never work. It is not possible and whoever tries it would be wasting his time. We are not a Banana Republic. It would be aborted and would not work. America, United Kingdom would resist it because they cannot afford any kind of crisis in Nigeria that would lead to war or civil disturbances. We can occupy the entire West Africa as a nation, America and other European countries would gang up and stop that. Nobody would dare to disrupt democracy in Nigeria. Can you assess the state of the security in the country? We are the architects of our own destruction. If we continue in this way, we can never grow as a country. Our albatross, no matter the person that is in command, is the constitution. As long as we retain this constitution, there is nothing that Nigeria can get right. It is a feudalistic constitution that has imposed some constraints on national development. How can you have a unified police and you say that you are running a federal system? How can you post a policeman to a community where he doesn’t understand the language? Let us restructure and it is easy. Restructure only three things, and we would move forward. Remove electricity from the constitution, there is no country in this world where electricity is part of their constitution, it is an albatross thing, it can never work. Let every state generate, transmit and distribute its electricity. How can smaller countries like Ghana, Sierra Leone, Botswana, have electricity? Ghana is about 95 per cent compliant because she doesn’t restrict anybody. Why should federal government control electricity? They can have their own but for domestic use like in the local government, they should be pulled out of federal government coverage. People are benefiting from it, prominent Nigerians have been fighting for it but because they are part of the government now, they are keeping quiet. Look at the exclusive legislative list, item 14b of concurrent, areas covered by national grid system within the state, it should be removed so that every state should generate and distribute its electricity. All parts of the country cannot have 100 per cent electricity in the same day; there are some comparative advantages. Some can go for solar, others for thermal, some for coal and then wind, depending on comparative advantage. This overbearing of Nigerian State on 200 million people cannot work. Nigeria must return to state policing. Some people said that the governors would be the issue, but they would not be there forever. The police force is an authority; they are professionals by the way of the constitution and that is the way to go. Nigeria is the only country that is running the federal system the way we are running it. The potentials are there, but the way we are running it is inimical to our progress. Local government administration is the third item that must be restructured. Poverty is at the local government and why are you now controlling their funds. They created NFFIU, but the governors do not want to obey, it is all on paper. They are not giving the money directly to the local government and that is the responsibility of the Accountant General of the Federation. Instead of the minister of finance to ask each local government to give its account, they asked the Accountant Generals of the states to do that, and they gave them one account number. Does that make sense? The president is not aware. It is the responsibility of the minister of finance during allocation to ask every local government for its account number; credit the account, it is only then that they can monitor the account. Unless the local government works properly, poverty alleviation would not be effective. School feeding is a good programme that is managed wrongly, it is the local government chairman that should manage the school feeding. The local government chairman does not know the market woman that you are giving the money to. It is the local government who should register the children in school, not federal government. How can government be talking about the number of primary school children in a local government and the local government chairman is not aware? I have not heard that the local government is part of the school feeding. They want to control it from the top. It is the chairman of the local government that should prepare the list. There are peculiarities of food in each locality. Some locality want rice instead of yam, others beans instead of eggs, if you don’t involve the local government, you would get it wrong. We know the right thing but we never do the right thing. Adams Oshiomhole, National chairman of the All Progessives Congress (APC) is of the view that we should talk less about restructuring but talk about attitudinal and value change. What do you say to that? If he is not comfortable with the word, let him say we should have autonomy of local government. Don’t use the word restructuring. We want each state to generate, transmit and distribute electricity. States have comparative advantage; some have water, coal, and some have sun. Why should I wait for transmission line from Egbe Thermal Station to go to Sokoto and you waste so much money on transmission? There can be zonal and state transmission. A state like Lagos should have uninterrupted electricity because we have water surrounding us, and people have capacity to pay. There should be comparative analysis. All the people there were talking of restructuring, true federalism, government at the centre being too powerful, they are saying something else now but in their hearts they know the truth, one day they would say the truth. Do you think that INEC can deliver in Kogi and Bayelsa elections? It is not INEC’s problem, it is a Nigerian problem, we know what to do but we are very selfish. We keep multiplying our mistakes and incapacities rather than do what is good. It is the same issue from Uwais report. It said that everybody should go for national identity card. We don’t need to be registering because it is during registration of voters that they change everything and have ghost voters. Let us transmit electronically. If you go to the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and transact, in less than one minute, you get an alert. We don’t want to do that with our election because we want to rig. The card reader is not part of our law, it is not in our constitution and so, it is illegal and the Supreme Court has said so that this card reader is not part of our law. How can we have free and fair elections in Kogi and Bayelsa? We are the architects of our problem. They are going to fight and kill themselves in Kogi and Bayelsa. We must put checks and balances to make it work and if we fail to do so, we would not get the result. It is the might of the big man in the community that wins the election. They have to mobilise and fight it out with guns. You have to brutalise people and carry the ballot boxes. Don’t let anybody dictate to you, it is the order of the day. We know the answers and we never address them and we want results. We are wasting time. Constitutional lawyer, Prof. Ben Nwabueze faulted the Supreme Court Judgment that affirmed President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory. Do you think he is right to have faulted the judgment? It is unfortunate that we do not understand the position of the Supreme Court, Appeal Court or the Tribunal. Elections can only be faulted on four grounds. Why are you talking about card reader? Why are you talking about server, you know it doesn’t exist in law and the Supreme Court has said so and the man (Buhari) cleverly did not sign the amended electoral bill into law. Do you think that the man was ignorant? He knew why he did not sign it. I must say that immediately he did not sign, I knew the result already. The bill was presented to him four times, he did not sign and Nigerians did not complain then. What can the Supreme Court do? It is what is in the law that it will work with. What we should fight now is the signing of the amendment. No matter what you say, you don’t have the basis to criticise the government in that election because it was free for all, there was no guideline to rely on. If you use the card reader, it is not recognised and if you use transmission into the server, it is not recognised. There is no way to even know the voters. On the day of election some people will vote 10 times and there is no way to know. It happened during Yar’Adua’s time and they set up Uwais Commission. His report said all Nigerians should register so that the identity of voters could be captured. We behave as if we are not living in a modern world, a world of technology. If we mean it, all Nigerians can have national identity card within one year, and when you slot it into the machine, all information about you would appear. Every politician is comfortable with what is happening now because it is not the best candidate that wins an election, it is the candidate that can rig that wins election. If we want a transparent election, we must have the national identity card, that is what is obtained all over the world. If you have the card, you can vote anywhere in the world. Those American citizens who vote during elections, do they travel to America to vote? They voted in Nigeria because every American has an identity and you cannot duplicate yourself. All the figures that you see in election results are fake; they are manipulated and politicians are aware. The more you can manipulate, the better chances for you to win but if you are docile, they would outwit you. What is the percentage of voters that come out to vote? Probably it is just 17 per cent. They are not voting because they know the result would be manipulated. If you cannot manipulate, you cannot win election in Nigeria. Bayelsa and Kogi elections would be for the fittest. You must confront them force for force to win. Some Nigerians say they no longer have confidence in the judiciary, citing the example of Sowore’s stringent bail condition. What can you say about that? The problem is not with the judiciary but with Nigerian system. This thing that is happening in Nigeria happens all over the world. It is the comfort of an individual that determines his attitude. What is the salary of an average Judge? What comfort is available to him or her? What is available in the court room where he works? You need to see modern equipment in the courts abroad. A Nigerian Judge still writes manually. How many things can he remember? How many staff do they have as lawyers taking notes in court? It is an important part of our democracy. We must invest in it, if we do not, they would take bribe to survive. I know of judges that cannot pay their children’s school fees. I pity anybody who is making noise about the Judges because in his heart, he knows that the Judge is a shortchanged person. He is a deprived person and at the end of the day after leaving service, he cannot practice. How do you want them to survive? You must plan for their future. Let him know that if he gives a particular judgment, nothing would happen to him or that he would survive outside the system. We must address it and if we don’t, they must take bribe to survive. My take home every month as a retired permanent secretary is N45, 000. How would I have survived if I did not plan my life? That is the predicament of everyone working for government. If you don’t prepare well, you will suffer.