Two suspected armed robbers, said to be members of Aiye and Eiye Confraternities, were on Friday night arrested by the operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) after a failed attempt to rob two occupants of a vehicle in Iyana Ipaja area of Lagos State. The suspects, Abbey Kolawole, 40, Ikenna Eze  30 and Femi (now at large) had accosted two occupants of a vehicle, who were having private discussions. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Bala Elkana, Police Image Maker, Lagos State, said the occupants were reported to have locked up their vehicle before the suspects got there. According to Eze, the leader of the gang, Femi,  in the process was brandishing his gun and, ordered the occupants to alight from the car but they refused. “He shot into the air, and threatened to shoot the occupants. In his attempt to fire the second shot the locally made double barrel gun hooked and by this time, the residents of the area had emerged to check what was happening. “The robbers fled in different directions and abandoned their gun. “The leader of the gang escaped, both Kolawole and Eze were unlucky as they were apprehended by residents while attempting to scale through their fences and they were handed over to the officers of the RRS following a distress call. Police investigations revealed that Femi invited the gang out to the house of a resident of Shagari Estate, Iyana – Ipaja with the intent of killing him. He had stated in his statement to police that one of the occupants of the vehicle, had threatened to kill Femi. Eze further stated that the man they attacked had earlier besieged Femi’s residence in Agege Abattoir in company of many cult members and threatened to kill him. But Femi in retaliation wanted to maim the man first. He added that their “plan was to shoot the man on the leg but after firing the first shot into the air, the gun hooked and before he could reload it, residence had converged and were moving towards them. It was gathered that Femi was the one who is familiar with the terrain, so he escaped easily while others who were strangers in that community were arrested. The two suspects has confirmed being members of Aiye and Eiye confraternities. Recovered from the suspects were a locally made double barrel cut to size shot gun, three live cartridges and one expended cartridge. Commenting on the development, the Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, thanked the members of Shagari Estate, Ipaja for cooperating with the police in the arrest of the robbers. He urged communities in the state to partner with the police in crime-fighting while the  suspects had been transferred to Gowon Estate Police Station, Ipaja for further investigations.