ABEOKUTA – The National Association of Nigeria Students (NANS) has rejected the social media and hate speech bills currently undergoing consideration before the Senate. NANS, in a press statement addresses by its National Publicity Relations Officer, Azeez Adeyemi, described the bills as targeted at silencing youths and journalists to pave way for impunity. The association also threatened Kabiru Ismail of Kano State House of Assembly and Jemili Akingbade of Ogun State House of Assembly for harassing students and youths in their constituencies. Ismail was said to have used the police to pick up one Yahuza Tijjani, who is currently in prison since September 30, 2019, while Akingbade was accused of arresting one Muideen Adeogun of his constituency. Tijjani was said to have been picked by security agents after posting on his Facebook wall what Is’mail, representing Modibo State Constituency, Kano, deemed uncomplimentary. But NANS on Tuesday gave the state lawmaker 72 hours’ ultimatum to release Tijjani from Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS) facility or risk being classified as an “enemy of the Nigerian students.” The NANS condemned the series of attempts to gag free speech in the country by both members of the Executive and the legislative arms of the government. Azeez also called Akingbade, representing Imeko State Constituency, to desist from the alleged harassment of critics with security agents and hounding them to detention at Eleweran, headquarters of the Ogun State Police Command. He urged the African Democratic Congress (ADC) lawmaker, who also doubles as the Deputy Minority Leader, to effect the release of other detainees within 24 hours or risk the wrath of the Nigerian students. “Our attention has been drawn to an attempt by the Federal Government of Nigeria in connivance with a Senator representing Niger-East, Muhammad Sani Musa, to silence the Nigerian populace, especially the youth, of which the students constitute its largest percentage, through a social media bill.”