LAGOS – Memories of Tuesday, November 5, 2019 will linger on in the minds of chieftains of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) in particular and football stakeholders in the country in general. That was the day NFF President Amaju Pinnick, Seyi Akinwunmi (1st Vice President), Shehu Dikko (2nd Vice President), Mohammed Sanusi (General Secretary) and Ahmed Yusuf (Executive Committee member) were discharged and acquitted on alleged $8.4million, N4billion corruption charges brought by the defunct Special Presidential Investigation Panel (SPIP). The panel, headed by Okon Obono-Obla who is now on the run to avoid prosecution by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Related Offences Commission (ICPC) had filed a 16 –count charge against the NFF chieftains with wild claims of alleged corruption against the men, and even subjected them to extensive media trial at home and abroad. Among the charges were misappropriation of the sums of $8.4million and N4billion, conflict of interest and non-declaration of assets. At a point, now –fleeing Obono-Obla wrote to the Confederation of African Football (CAF) twisting all the facts with regards to Nigeria’s participation in the CAF Congress of 2015. However, on Tuesday, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu dismissed the entire case with all 16 charges, and acquitted the NFF chieftains in consideration of the submission of the defence and the prosecution and in line with the rules of administration of criminal justice. “The clean bill is a confirmation of the position of the NFF on all swirling allegations of corruption against its officials. “Nigeria’s supreme football –governing body has always insisted that its leaders were being victimized by persons who lost elections through the ballot and were seeking other means to upturn things at Glass House, or disgruntled individuals simply on a mission of vendetta,” said NFF spokesman, Ademola Olajire. Only last month, a motion by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to remove the names of Pinnick and Sanusi from the witnesses’ category and add them to the list of accused persons in a case at the FCT High Court over the same $8.4million FIFA Grant was put on hold after the Office of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) submitted that it was taking over the case with a view to ascertaining its validity, seeing that same persons were being charged spuriously in different courts and/or investigated by several agencies over the same allegations hewed out of petitions by the same individuals. At the court on Tuesday, a counsel from the Office of the AGF, which had taken over the case, said it could not proceed with the matter as the proof of evidence could not sustain the charges. NFF’s counsel adduced reasons why the charges could not be sustained: 1. The SPIP Investigation Report dated April 30, 2019 filed in the Honourable Court as Exhibit 7 in the Proof of Evidence and its Findings as contained in page 13 to 21 cleared the NFF officials of all allegations, based on the petition investigated by the Panel. 2. A review of the certified true copy of the NFF Bank account with the Central Bank of Nigeria found that there was no transaction of N4Billion or any amount whatsoever on November 3, 2018 as alleged in the charges filed by SPIP. It was also found that the total inflow into the said NFF account for the whole of 2018 is far less than N1billion, confirming that the alleged N4billion never existed anywhere in the first instance. In the circumstances, the Defence Counsel applied to the court to dismiss the charges and also discharge and acquit the NFF chieftains, since the proof of evidence could not sustain the charges. The AGF office counsel did not have any objection to this submission by the defence. The judge then ruled that in view of these facts, she had no option than to discharge and acquit the defendants on all counts, wondering why the case was brought to the court in the first place. Defence Counsel, Barrister Sani Katu, put the issues in perspective: “The matter was adjourned till today to allow time for investigation as to whether the defendants should be arraigned or not by the Office of the Attorney General which had taken over the matter. “The Office of the Attorney General went and investigated the matter and discovered that the proof of evidence could not sustain the charges. “On that basis, the Office of the AGF applied to withdraw the charges and the consequence is that the defendants should be discharged and acquitted from all 16 charges, to which the court agreed.” It will be recalled that in May this year, Pinnick said he and the four others are being victimized. His comments to BBC Sport after the officials were ordered to appear in court on July 1 to face charges over the alleged misappropriation of funds. “The motive for this media trial is purely destructive, it’s a deep-seated emotional, obsessional and delusional hatred,” Pinnick insisted. “This is not the first time; we believe all the false allegations are aimed at destroying our credibility and what we’ve built,” said Pinnick. Pinnick is adamant that the problems away from the pitch will not affect Nigeria’s participations in all the lined down programmes. “We don’t want to lose focus. Their plan is to get us distracted and get us destroyed but we are resilient. “We are not telling you we are saints, we are humans and we can make mistakes. But the good news about us is that our mistakes we turn to learning process. “It’s human to be intelligent to learn from mistakes and be resurgent enough to bounce back. That’s what we’ll do,” said Pinnick. Akinwunmi in his view said the clean bill has further proved that the leadership of the NFF is all out for the growth and development of our football against the thinking of the people trying to pull them down. “We are focused. We have a mission and target and that is to help develop the game of football in the country. That we will ensure we carry out irrespective of the negative things about us. “We are determined not to lose focus and the latest development has further helped to show that there is no iota of truth in all the allegations against us and against football loving Nigerians. “We want to appreciate all those that stood with us during the trying period and those that have trust in us. I want to assure that we will not deter in our resolute to develop the game of football in the country,” said Akinwunmi. Ex-international, Taiwo Oloyede in his comment said the good aspect of the judgment is that the leadership can now have time to continue its good work. “It would have been another thing entirely if the reverse was the case. What that will mean is that we might have to start all over again. “I mean fresh elections of members into the board of the NFF and others. That would have been a big setback for the country, but thank God that they have been discharged,” said Oloyede. A football lover, Jaiye Coker while stressing that the development is a good one for the country in general, urged the discharged NFF chieftains to, apart from being prudent, also operate open door policy for all and sundry to see what they are doing. “Carrying people along in all they are doing is very important especially at this point in time. This will also help to disabuse the minds of those that have negatives impressions about what they are doing. “Apart from that, they should also be prudent noting that they are public figures and people are taking watch of what of they are doing,” said Coker. According to my colleague, Desmond Ekwueme in one of his write-ups, he called on the leadership of the NFF to adjust, forget the past and move forward. In moving forward, he said the board must be very fast having lost grounds given the circumstances and situation we found our football and ourselves in the last few months. In moving fast, they must look at the bad press and ugly image this case has cast on our football which has scared away potential sponsors from investing in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), fund programs of the national teams at all levels and adequately prepared these teams for assignments at hand. The country failed to qualify for a couple of championships. Yes, our clubs in the continent are not finding their feet among top clubs in apex competitions but we can make up by ensuring that the few representing the country get full support and attention. In the same vein, they should ensure that the U-23 Eagles currently in Egypt for the CAF U-23 AFCON fly highest and grab the ticket to Japan for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics Games. The domestic league should also be made attractive again. It is also time to rebuild or correct the mistakes of the past as no one is perfect. This is not a time to seek vengeance or make more enemies or to over celebrate the legal victory. It is rather a time for sober reflection, a time for critical examination and a time for self screening. Find a way of reducing the hangers on and sycophants around the board members for there are betrayals among them. Most of them are the ones inviting trouble for the board. However, there are also things they must tidy up especially when it comes to transparency and disbursements or usage of funds. As public servants, they must be humble and accessible with ears for and to all. It is believed that the drama of the past 12 months or so has humbled all involved. No one knows it all. They can only improve and get better. This is another opportunity to right the wrongs and prove critics wrong. If Nigeria football is better, it is for all and sundry hence, we all feel concerned and sad once things go wrong. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT gathered that this is not the first time officials of the NFF will be involved in corruption allegations. It would be recalled that back in 2010, four former officials were arrested amid accusations that some $8m went missing during the World Cup finals in South Africa. It took eight years for the quartet to be acquitted by the anti-graft agency.