Following the successful hosting of Icreate Africa Skills Festival in Kaduna and Enugu regions, Sterling Bank Plc and other sponsors of the project have concluded arrangement to host the grand finale of the second edition in Lagos next month. Addressing a press conference in Lagos at the weekend to announce details of the event, Chief Client Engagement Officer of Sterling Bank, Mr. Moronfolu Fasinro, said the bank is partnering with Icreate Africa because it is committed to solving the unemployment challenge on the African continent. He said the way to resolve the unemployment challenge going forward is through skills acquisition by youths rather than focusing on white-collar jobs, adding that “We know that youth employment is a key part of creating a society that is harmonious and productive.” Fasinro noted that vocational jobs are what move an economy in its day-to-day operations and Icreate was bringing various people together to work on how to change the narrative about the labour market. “We are very happy to partner with Icreate to produce this sort of opportunity so that these people could change the face of employment on the continent in the future,” Fasinro said. Also speaking, the Chief Marketing Officer of Sterling Bank, Mr. Dapo Martins said: “We need to focus on exporting skills instead of concentrating only on the export of crude oil and agricultural products,” remarking that most Nigerian graduates that are travelling overseas with academic knowledge either ends up washing plates in restaurants or doing other menial jobs. He noted that if anyone wants quality architectural work in the country, those skills are usually shipped in from outside the country, adding that the best wood work, furniture were being done by Chinese and that if anyone wants to build a quality housing project, about 80 percent of what he needs would come from China. Martins cited some projects being built by Chinese in the country as Lagos State Goverment’s new rail project, upgrade of local airports and Abuja metro. In his contribution, Mr. Bright Jaja ,Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Icreate Africa Skills Festival, explained that it was clear to him at the beginning of the journey that the idea of the festival was different, unique and would probably not make sense to a lot of people. “But we were consistent because we understood the concept and background, having done a thorough research on the employment situation in Nigeria and we realised that the only solution to the challenge was to rebrand jobs away from the existing perception and notion that if one is not a medical doctor, lawyer or an engineer, he has failed,” he said. Jaja noted that over time a lot of young people had to go through tertiary education under stress and depression even though they knew that was not what they were interested in. The Founder/CEO said the objective of Icreate was to create five million jobs in five years by empowering about one million people who would, in turn, employ at least five people in their businesses. He said the strategy is to rebrand the way society perceives vocational skills and get young people to be interested or attracted to what they have passion for in the overall interest of the economy. Retail Marketing Manager of Bosch Nigeria Limited, Mr. Samson Ajayi said Icreate was pivotal to their company because it addressed a lot of structural issues in the Nigerian economy, adding that as an engineering company that makes mechanical parts, they felt it was a unique opportunity to tap into in a bid to contribute its quota to the economy. Also commenting, President of Universal Learn Direct Academia Limited (ULDA), Engineer Olawumi Gasper said they were very happy to work with Icreate and congratulated Mr. Bright Jaja, the founder of of the company for inspiring young Nigerians develop passion in skills. Malissa Onojo one of the champions of Icreate in the premier edition skills festival said the competition has exposed and helped her to be very confident and proud of her trade as a fashion designer. She called on the Federal Government to certify skills for artisans. Besides this, the press conference was attended by other stakeholders which include Fashion Academy, Trace TV, House of Tara, Lagos State Ministry of Wealth creation & Employment and LASTVEB. The Icreate Skills Competition is a platform that promotes skills excellence, showcases skills standards and careers, demonstrates benchmarks of excellence in teaching and learning and creates interest in public sector agencies and private organisations to invest in skills development. The 10 winners of the first edition represented Nigeria in Russia in 2019. They include Otareh Alvin who won in the cooking category, Nejo Tolulope (graphics), Silas Adedoyin (web design), Patrick Obafemi (app development), Barnabas Kudi (robotics), Afolabi Caleb Kayode (art), Ms. Malissa Onojo (tailoring), Yusuf Abdullahi (barbing), Kingsley Ihejirika (hair dressing), Ms. Faiza Usman Adamu (make-up), Joshua Olalekan (carpentry), Oladoja Peter (tiling), Kumshuan Talgang (plumbing) and Prince Isitua (bricklaying).