Lagos – Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr has revealed that he is being owed $100, 000 by the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) from match bonuses and allowances. While equally revealing why he hired a French lawyer, Jean-Jacques Bertrand to hold discussions with the NFF over his contract extension, payment of his dues and other matters, Rohr said he is keen to get his contract sorted out before it expires in June next year. “I am surprised that the federation is taking their time to conclude a contract. I am also surprised that when I was given a contract extension after qualifying for the 2018 World Cup, it was only extended until July 2020, which is right in the middle of qualifiers for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon. That is not normal and it is only the federation that can explain the reason for this. “While I have had a good time with my players and staff over the last three years, I have to say that relations with the administration have not been very easy; especially when it comes to the payment of my wages and that of the bonuses and allowances of my players and staff. “There needs to be a lot more respect in this regard. I preferred to get Jean-Jacques involved because it got to a stage that I didn’t want to be speaking to the federation about money all the time. “It got tiring. I wanted to take my mind away from money and simply focus on my job and let him deal with the issues off the field,” Rohr told Inside World Football. The Franco-German tactician has seven months left to run on his current contract, but he noted that the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers will begin in March and he would become eligible to discuss any new deal with another country from the beginning of the year. The 66-year-old former handler of Niger Republic, Burkina Faso and Gabon, who has been in charge of the Super Eagles since 2016 stressed that he is working under strange and tough conditions. Meanwhile, the NFF said it has asked Rohr to explain reasons behind several breaches of the contract that he signed with the body, which forbids him to divulge to the media information on some aspects of the contract. Speaking in Abuja on Wednesday, NFF’s Technical Director, Mr. Bitrus Bewarang said Rohr’s new-found love for disclosing information beyond technical matters to the media is highly unprofessional and against the spirit and letter of his contractual relationship with the football –ruling body. “In as much as we appreciate the work that Rohr has been doing with the Super Eagles in the past 40 months, his recent penchant for breaching provisions of the contract he signed with the NFF and the Code of Conduct for coaches is not good for the relationship. “The NFF wishes that Rohr continues in the job because of the team he is building for Nigeria which looks promising and has earned some good results since he took charge, but he cannot continue to nonchalantly cause the NFF as a body, and Nigeria as a nation, reputational damage through his utterances and actions,” Bewarang said. He went further: “As at today, the only money that the NFF is owing Rohr is the differential in his new contract (about $30,000) which our financial advisors have to align and interface with AITEO before payment (as the improved contract came into effect in the last half of the year), and which process was concluded on Friday last week. “He will soon be paid. Rohr has talked about bonus from the 2019 AFCON, which is not contractual but discretionary on the part of the NFF. The present NFF started the policy of paying players a percentage of tournament bonus during the 2018 FIFA World Cup just to motivate them, outside their bonuses and allowances. “We did not pay any bonus for the 2021 AFCON qualifying matches against Benin Republic and Lesotho because we are in the process of negotiating with the players on a new template of bonus payments based on performance after qualification for championships. This is still being discussed. “The NFF is very much alive to its responsibilities but will not tolerate disrespect for the body and the country Nigeria by anyone. NFF can never be happy owing coaches in its employ which is the reason why the present administration took the unprecedented step of putting in place a sponsor specifically to pay coaches’ salaries. “Last week, we paid all the national team coaches and we are putting in place mechanism to ensure we don’t owe them going forward. We commend AITEO for its belief in the NFF and for always making funds available to pay the coaches,” explained Bewarang.