Lagos – It is no longer news that sport in Nigeria at all levels is going through a thorny turf in recent times as every sport administration in the country has always made one attempt or the other to salvage the pathetic epileptic situation. From ball games to athletics; combat to racket; aquatic to extreme sports, the story is the same in their dwindling fortunes in the country even as Nigeria once used to be a threat to other world powers as the Americas, United Kingdom (UK) in sports. Recent sporting competitions, particularly at the international levels justify the fact that all is no “longer at ease” with Nigerian sport: For instance, at the recently concluded IAAF World Athletic Championship in Doha, Qatar, Nigeria posted a very mockery performance with Ese Brume, who revived Nigeria’s image with a consolatory, hard earned bronze. Also in football, the most followed and unifying sport in the country and other parts of the world generally, the story has not been any different – it has been back, back, forth – the Nigerian women football side, the Super Falcons are out of the football event in the forthcoming 2020 Tokyo Olympics in Japan and the U-23 football men are also hanging in the balance. The downward slide of sport in the country is so bad that in the last two Olympics, Nigeria has only won just one medal – a bronze in football men event – at the 2016 Rio Olympics in Brazil, while in 2012 London Olympics in the United Kingdom it was nil even when Nigeria was said to have one of the largest contingent, it had the largest woes. However, the struggle and search for the best ways to salvage this ugly sport situation in the country, is one of the reasons the current Youth and Sports Development Minister, Sunday Dare, is on his toes and not losing sleep – reaching out to every stakeholders home and abroad on the way forward. Interestingly, the Sports Minister just got the International Olympic Committee (IOC) President, Dr. Thomas Bach, on a two-day working visit to the country during the week which lasted between November 13 and 14 – it was indeed a welcome development according to sports commentators, believing it will open a vista of opportunities for Nigeria towards reshaping its sport fortunes. Developing Nigeria sport no doubt is the shared view of every Nigerians even by the Minister of Sports, Dare, who said the visit of the IOC President to Nigeria will boost sports development in the country. “The visit by the IOC President and his team is quite significant as it shows the place of Nigeria in the heart of the International Olympic Movement. It is also a clear sign that Nigeria is highly respected in the sports sector among the committee of African nations,” he said. “The visit of the IOC President is also billed to orchestrate other activities which include a courtesy call to State House, tour of the facilities at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja and meetings with Olympians, Olympic Scholarship holders, Nigeria Olympics Committee (NOC) Partners and visits to NOC Partner Schools. “It is also important to mention here that Nigeria will continue to provide the expected leadership in promoting the ideals of the International Olympic Movement as the opportunity presents itself as we plan to also bid to host a major Olympic event,” Dare said. The IOC President as part of his engagements commissioned the Secretariat of the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA), among others. The minister during the visit of the IOC boss assured that the ministry will ensure early preparations and proper logistics for Team Nigeria for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics slated for July 24-August 9, 2020. This is against the backdrop of the IOC President’s impression saying, “I will be meeting government officials, the NOC and the athletes also to wish them luck in the Olympic qualification and participations in the 2020 Tokyo Olympic.” On the lighter note he said, “It’s a very rich programme for my visit to Nigeria and am looking forward to enjoying the Nigerian hospitality.” Indeed, since the resumption of Dare some few months ago, he has stirred up actions toward stimulating sporting activities and revitalising the decaying sporting facilities in the country – the National Stadium Surulere, Lagos; the MKO Stadium, Abuja; Obafemi Awolowo Stadium, Ibadan among others. All of these are pointers to the fact that the Sports Minister is not only focused, but he is knowledgeable and understands the workings of the game and he is on course to fix the problems. Chief Adegboyega Onigbinde, has time without number said that for Nigeria to get it right again – measuring up with other countries of the world in sport, technocrats must take charge of sports management. “You don’t give what you don’t have; it is certain that at the moment Nigeria is not developing sport, because it is not being administered in line with the rules of the game. But to achieve the dream of genuinely developing sport, those who know the game will have to be in charge; at least, those who have selfless interest towards developing sport,” he said. This invariably implies having somebody with sound administrative knowledge and flare, passion in sports; somebody that could be a good public relation manager that can reconnect the country with the world view of the sporting industry. Yes indeed! Dare no doubt, seemed to fill blank space with the right resume and type cast which his steps so far is enough to justify without sentiment but with a discerning mind. Incidentally, the visit of the IOC President is a second high calibre visits of an international sports presidents to Nigeria in recent times; Amaju Pinnick, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President, was able to bring the Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) President, Gianni Infantino and the Secretary, Fatima Samoura to Nigeria in 2016. Since then, Nigeria’s status in the FIFA politics has changed for the better; Nigeria now has its football (NFF) president occupying a vantage position at FIFA and Confederation of African Football (CAF); it invariably has helped Nigeria in taking gradual shape in its football development, just as it is left for the managers not to rest on their oars in managing the gains of the new relationship with apex body. Against this backdrop, the new conversation is for Nigeria sport administrators to take advantage of Bach’s visit to re-launch itself into the mainstream of the politics of the IOC ostensibly to regain its lost grounds in the international sports. Interestingly of utmost excitement is that Nigeria has got the population; Nigeria is blessed with human and material resources and whatever it takes to be one of the greatest sporting nations of the world if only the needful is done and not putting square pegs in round holes; doing the right thing at the right time. Thus, it is apt to say that the Sports Minister, Dare, making it possible to have the IOC boss, Dr. Bach, in Nigeria on a working visit is a blessing to the Ministry and it could only be a matter of time and sports will take its positive shape again in the country.