Lagos – Shehu Dikko, the League Management Company (LMC) chairman and vice president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), has said that the technical crew of the Golden Eaglets would step down from their role but that the NFF would not be in any hurry to take a decision (on replacement). This followed the exit of the team from the FIFA Under-17 World Cup in Brazil where they lost 1-3 to the Netherlands. Dikko said no team has enjoyed quality preparation like the current team and will therefore review their performance to forestall a future occurrence. “Though the board of the NFF is not keen on winning cadets championship as their aim is to use such tournaments to develop players for the future, the board will however make a decision about the technical crew due to the shambolic display they put up at the tournament. “Usually you go to tournaments with a target and the one we gave the technical crew is to at least reach the quarterfinal of the tournament, which is fair enough considering the way they prepared for the tournament. In the history of Nigeria U17, no team has enjoyed this type of preparations. ”For failing to reach the target given to them their position will be reviewed immediately and it starts from asking them to submit their technical report and step down from their role for us to review and get back to them.” “They signed a two year deal which terminates at the end of this tournament. So in few weeks’ time it will be up. It’s imperative we start building early for the next assignment. ”No need to be in a hurry. We have come to the end of a cycle by the ouster of this team. So another phase will begin in earnest. Decisions will not be rushed but it will be made in due time to give whoever gets the nod enough time to plan and build something better than the team that crashed out of the 2019 Under-17 World Cup. ”I also think it will be nice for our teams both in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) and Nigeria National League (NNL) to have youth teams. “It helps for easy scouting of players instead of the case where we have over 80,000 players coming for trials. The clubs need to do better in that regards. ” Our partnership with the Laliga helped discover players for this team just like the Zenith Bank U-15 tournament. “We will look at how best to use it to help out in the rebuilding process of our U-17 which is the first step in having a good senior national team. The discovery starts from there,” Dikko said.