The ongoing Insurance sector’s recapitalisation has reached a-Point-of-No Return as the industry’s regulatory authority, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has shown a deep commitment to its actualisation. In this report, CHRIS EBONG, OYENIRAN APATA and OLUSEGUN KOIKI examine the steps, so far, taken by the commission to achieve its objectives. The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has not left any stone unturned in the realisation of its recapitalisation objectives. Since the announcement of the exercise on May 20 this year, the commission has taken several bold steps in selling its recapitalisation initiative to all stakeholders, including the shareholders and insurance consumers. The recognition of these key stakeholders, one of its kinds, has paved away for a seamless exercise given the fact that the shareholders in particular have now appreciated the purpose for the exercise and the need to support their companies’ boards and managements in ensuring that they meet the prescribed capital status in the post exercise regime. Explaining the rationale behind the initiative, the commission late last month told shareholders that for companies to live up to their obligations to both the internal and external publics, the very reason their companies must inject fresh capital into their operations. Continuing, the commission added that the capital size of an underwriter has significant impact on retention capacity of an insurance company among other factors. Explaining further, the commission stated that a large proportion of the local risks are presently ceded outside because of low retention capacity, asserting that high retention means more premiums is retained by the company. The commission also cited high value creation as a reason for and the need for capital increase and the effort to improve corporate governance oversight as a result of introduction of major new big owners to the industry. It noted that the higher the stakes in an enterprise, the higher the interest. While these last, the commission explained further that injection of fresh capital into companies would attract new knowledge, ideas and innovations as new talent would be attracted to the sector. Reduction in cost was also cited as one of the reasons for capital increase, while self-interest of sit-tight managers at the expense of shareholders would be minimised. “With proper oversights, it reduces pursuance of self-interest of managers at the expense of shareholders,” Pius Agboola, Director, Policy and Regulation at NAICOM told shareholders of quoted companies. “The ability to meet current obligations as it fall due, availability of investment fund for a better/higher returns, added value to insurance services required higher and bigger capital outlay like Information Technology (IT), research, product development, emergence of holding companies and conglomerate required high capital, insurance potential in Nigeria is very high and this required capital to explore and harness,” he added. Hedge against risks arising from macro-economic environment such as  inflationary trend; changes in interest rate – high debt servicing and borrowing costs; changes in foreign exchange rate – ₦120 – ₦153 in 2007 and ₦306 – ₦360 in 2018) with consequential increase in value of insured assets over the years were also cited as the need for increased capital for companies. Capital structure refers to the way a firm chooses to finance its assets and investments through some combination of equity, debt or other internal funds. Where the debt securities are higher compared to equities, the company is said to be high geared and may find it difficult to raise additional funds through debt securities. “Appropriate mixture of the capital is required at all times. This mixture determines the capital gearing of a company. Thus, the capital base increase through increase in shares subscription would definitely dilute the capital structure of companies,” it was stated. The commission went further to lay before the shareholders the guidelines as stipulated in its directive stating that “the minimum paid up share capital shall be through any or a combination of the following: Existing paid up share capital as well as cash payment for new shares issued; retained earnings – capitalisation of undistributed profits. Also Payment in kind (other than by way of cash) for new shares issued such as properties, T-Bills, shares, bonds, which must be converted to cash not later than three months to the deadline for recapitalisation; and share premium are also considered legitimate channels for fund raising for the exercise. Aside the above, the commission recognises capital raise through merger and acquisition. Agboola warned that “cash payment for new shares issued shall be deposited in an escrow account with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Deposited funds shall be released not later than 30 days after the confirmation and issuance of a new license. “The shareholders’ fund as at the last date of recapitalisation for existing Insurance/Reinsurance Companies shall not be less than the required minimum paid-up share capital,” adding that “payment of statutory deposit shall be in accordance with the Insurance Act 2003 and shall be made not later than 30 days to the deadline for the recapitalisation. He advised that all mergers and acquisitions must be concluded not later than 60 days to the deadline for the recapitalisation. According to NAICOM, the last recapitalisation held in 2005/2007 had helped the current operators to perform better and had lifted the industry to the present status, though not really making impact on its contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which it noted was hovering below one per cent. “In an attempt to further raise the bar in capital injection, NAICOM between 2011 and 2012 introduced a Risk Based Capital using BASEL 11 model basically to make out for what it described as a home based approach, but this was cancelled midway to delivery. “Further research on the RBS/RBC to suit the local market conducted by the regulator later gave birth to Tier Based Minimum Solvency Capital (TBSMC) in the third quarter of 2018. This was resisted by the operators which led to the cancellation of policy by the commission. “Showing in a tabular how the industry’s retention capacity has been evolving by random sampling from statistics of conglomerates, the Commission that the consolidated insurance package of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) showed that 78per cent of $99.585 billion was retained by local underwriters while 22 per cent was ceded abroad. In the same vein, 75per cent of over $14billion energy package insurance by Chevron Nigeria Limited was retained, while 25 per cent was ceded within the same period. Recall that on May 20 this year, the NAICOM had announced a new capital increase for insurance and reinsurance companies in the country. Under the new directive, Life insurers are to recapitalise from N2billion to N8billion, Non-Life or General Business Companies to also raise their capital from N3billion to N10billion, while those doing both life and non-life known as composite have to raise their capital from N5billion to N18billion and reinsurers from N10billion to N20billion. The deadline for the exercise has been fixed for June 30, 2020. Beyond recapitalisation, quality service delivery has also been highlighted by NAICOM as key growth component for insurance industry. Mr. Sunday Thomas, Ag. Commissioner for Insurance, made the remark when the commission played host to insurance consumers in Lagos on November 4, 2019. According to Thomas, the industry operators must ensure they are treated fairly and protected as enshrined in the relevant laws; while at the same time balancing the supervisory role of ensuring financial soundness and reliability of insurance institutions in the country, adding that customers’ satisfaction is central to the sustainability and success of every business, insurance inclusive. Represented by Mallam Adamu Balanti, a Director at NAICOM, said: “We are aware of some of the obvious challenges bedeviling the sector either on the side of operators, consumers, investors or regulator. These challenges could be very overwhelming; however, we must not relent in looking for better ways to effectively and efficiently ensure delivery of quality services to policyholders. “Suffice it to say that consumers are faced with challenges that may vary from one individual or entity’s experience to another while the provider is faced with constraints that may also differ from one company to the other. But there is no doubt that regular interactions will amongst others foster a better understanding and synergy that will result to better services to the consumer.” He said the commission took the step in 2018 to incept the platform to provide the most critical stakeholders in the sector, which is the consumer, the opportunity to be heard and be informed first-hand on the workings of the sector. He listed some of the takeaways from the 2018 event as the need for insurance companies to improve the quality of their service delivery, need for operators to launch innovative, consumer – specific and problem-solving products, need to leverage on technology to deepen insurance penetration and the to ensure prompt payment of claims. “The Complaints Bureau Unit of the commission has also been working assiduously to resolve policyholders’ issues relating to non-settlement of claims, contract agreement violation etc. Its doors are widely open to receive and resolve, as much as it can, issues on non-settlement of genuine claims from the public. “The commission has strong passion that insurance consumers are served right and feeling your pulse on the services offered you by your insurers will feed us with ingredients needed to strategise on repositioning the industry for better services,” Balanti added. He said the current recapitalisation exercise was a move to ensure that the industry became more robust in its technical competence and financial base, adding that it would also reposition the sector for self-actualisation in terms of growth and development and empower insurers to provide better protection and improved services to their customers. “Let me reassure policyholders that the commission shall continue to introduce new reforms and initiatives in line with international best practices for consumer protection and customer satisfaction. Henceforth, insurance companies will be assessed and ranked on the quality of their service delivery to customers and the ranking of companies in this regard will be made public in order to provoke healthy competition among insurers. This we believe will boost consumers’ choice and confidence in insurance,” he said. The Forum is an annual event organised by NAICOM as part of its mandate at ensuring adequate protection of insurance consumers in Nigeria. It brings all stakeholders together to collectively x-ray the factors that could be responsible for poor service delivery in the sector. Consumers Pick On Insurers Demand Better Service Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), an umbrella body for all operating carriers in the country, has demanded for better service from local insurers with threat to boycott them if the provision of their services did not improve. The group urged NAICOM to organise a forum where they would be able to interface directly with insurance service providers, warning that they would not hesitate to start placing their aviation risks with foreign underwriters should NAICOM fails to address their challenge. The AON members, who expressed their misgivings at the 2019 Annual Interactive Session with Consumers of Insurance Products organised by NAICOM in Lagos last week, noted that most insurance firms over the years had continued to renege on payment of their claims due to excuses that are not tenable. Capt. Muhammed Joji, Chairman of AON, noted that his members were really not having good times with local insurers and called for an open market to enable operators insure freely without hindrance. Toyin Olajide, the Managing Director, Air Peace, lamented over $ 300,000 loss her company incurred due to non-payment of claims by underwriters. She also canvassed the need for a lead insurer to settle claims and get refund from co-insurers. Alhaji Kashim Shettima, Chairman, Barbedos Group, narrated how his underwriter failed to respond to an accident compliant on one of its aircraft. According to him, having reported the incident to the underwriting firm, the company, instead of getting back to the airline, went and report the issue to their foreign partner (underwriter) who called him for an enquiry. He called on NAICOM to grant airline operators the liberty to insure abroad, where aviation business was properly handled. According to him, aviation business should not be handled with kid gloves, as any mistake could lead to great mishap. Eddie Efekoha, President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) noted that the issues raised by AON members, were handled by insurers according to stipulated laws. He encouraged the organisation of a forum for AON members and insurers to properly examine the issues. Ahmad Adamu, Head, Complaint Bureau at NAICOM, urged the airline operators to exercise restraint and assured that NAICOM would look into their complaints. According to the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), underwriters paid N5.98 billion claims on aviation and marine business in recent time. The Nigeria Police also sought for waiver on No Premium No Cover for security agencies. According to them, following Federal Government’s inability to promptly pay insurance premium for group life of officers of security agencies,  NAICOM should grant waiver to the agencies to enable them provide cover for their workforce. Mohammed Adamu, the Inspector General of Police, represented by Abdul Suleiman Abdul, Deputy Commissioner for Police, noted that the group life of police officers elapsed in June 2019, an indication that families of officers that died since the cover elapsed could not claim any insurance benefits. He also called on insurance companies to engage in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), and leverage it to educate securities personnel on health issues and also execute capacity building for the officers, stressing that such efforts would help enhance the lifespan of the officers and reduce claims payment. Adamu also implored insurers to as part of CSR, provide scholarship for children and wards of deceased security officers. He urged insurers to live up to their responsibilities in settling all outstanding claims of deceased police officers. The Chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) Tope Smart, speaking on a paper entitled: ‘Prompt Claims Settlement: Issues and challenges’ said insurers in 2018 paid claims of N207.44 billion, whilst urging the public to take advantage of conflict resolutions bodies set up by the industry to resolve all unpaid claims issues. He said claims was a fundamental part of insurance, adding that the policy purchased by consumers was a promise of compensation when things go wrong, provided the circumstances fall within the policy’s terms and conditions. He said consumers were expected to lodge a claim to activate the insurer’s response. “If your claim is genuine, the insurer will fulfill the promise it made in the policy,” he added. He noted that the NIA in a bid to ensure the public were not denied claims, set up a complaints bureau, adding that NAICOM also had a bureau for settlement of claims disputes. In the same vein, the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said there cannot be a sustainable society without insurance, urging insurance industry operators to get more Nigerians into insurance net. The governor who was represented by his Deputy, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, at insurance industry event held in Lagos, recently noted that the state had laid down plans on how to work with insurance companies to protect lives and properties in the state through insurance. He called on insurance operators to do more in getting more people to embrace insurance, adding that the absence of insurance was putting more pressure on the finances of government as people that suffered losses always cry to government for help. According to him, 80 per cent of the people that suffered the recent inferno in Lagos Island may not have insurance. He implored religious leaders to make insurance parts of their sermons in churches and mosques, adding that people need to secure their lives and properties through insurance. Sunday Thomas, the Acting Commissioner for Insurance, implored the Lagos State Government to sustain the relationship it had established with the insurance industry, stressing that Lagos had been a leading light in the patronage of insurance. He called on the governor to restore the insurance contracts terminated by the last administration, adding that the insurance industry had a good working relationship with past administration.