LAGOS – When the Senate in May 2016, bowed to pressure from Nigerians and threw out “A Bill for an Act to Prohibit Frivolous Petitions and other Matters Connected therewith”, many had thought that such a bill will never find its way to the upper chamber again. The said bill, which was sponsored by Senator Ibn Na’Allah (Kebbi South), prescribed two years jail term for social media offenders. It also sought a two-year sentence for anyone who makes allegation or publishes any statement or petition in the newspaper, radio or medium of whatever description against another person, institutions of government or any public office holder. It also recommended that anybody or group who sends any false text message or posts false message on the social media against another person shall face the punishment after being convicted by the court of law. Nigerians were shocked when the Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Aliyu Abdullahi, again, brought before his colleagues, a bill that seeks to penalise persons found guilty of hate speech. It is tagged “National Commission For the Prohibition of Hate Speeches”. The National Commission for the Prohibition of Hate Speech Bill, was one of the 12 bills introduced on the floor of the Senate on Tuesday. The proposed commission is expected to enforce hate speech laws in the country and ensure the “elimination” of hate speech. The bill also prescribed death by hanging for any person found guilty of any form of hate speech that results in the death of another person. The death penalty is the most severe punishment provided by the bill, which defines hate speech as a comment that insults people for their religion, ethnic and linguistic affiliation, among others. Part of the bill stipulates that, “Any person who commits an offence under this section shall be liable to life imprisonment and where the act causes any loss of life, the person shall be punished with death by hanging.” On offences like harassment on the basis of ethnicity, racial contempt, the bill proposes not less than five-year jail term or a fine of not less than N10 million or both. “A person who uses, publishes, presents, produces, plays, provides, distributes and /or directs the performance of, any material, written and/or visual which is threatening, abusive or insulting or involves the use of threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour commits an offence if such a person intends thereby to stir up ethnic hatred, or having regard to all the circumstances, ethnic hatred is likely to be stirred up against any person or person from such an ethnic group in Nigeria. “Conduct shall be regarded as having the effect specified in Subsection (1)(a) or (b) of this Section if, having regard to all the circumstances, including in particular the perception of that other person, it should reasonably be considered as having that effect. “A person who subjects another to harassment on the basis of ethnicity commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to an imprisonment for a term not less than five years, or to a fine of not less than N10 million, or to both.” Senator Abdullahi, the sponsor of the bill, explained that it is aimed at ensuring the elimination of all forms of hate speeches; promoting the elimination of all forms of hate speeches against persons or ethnic groups; as well as advising the Federal Government on the matter. The bill also states that “a person who subjects another to harassment on the basis of ethnicity for the purposes of this section where, on ethnic grounds, he unjustifiably engages in a conduct which has the purpose or effect of violating that other person’s dignity; or creating an intimidating, degrading, hostile, humiliating or offensive environment for the person subjected to the harassment.” Other functions of the commission include discouraging persons, institutions, political parties and associations from advocating or promoting discrimination or discriminatory practices through the use of hate speeches; promoting tolerance, understanding and acceptance of diversity in all aspects of national life and encouraging full participation by all ethnic communities in social, economic, cultural and political life of other communities. Nigerians have continued to condemn the new move by the senators, with many accusing the legislators of leaving the most important things and attending to the irrelevant ones. Reacting to the proposal by the Senate, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections, Atiku Abubakar, cautioned the senators against moves to pass such a bill. While noting that the freedom of speech and other key elements of civil liberties, which Nigerians enjoyed between 1999 and 2015 should not be taken away by the current administration, Atiku, in a statement by his media Adviser, Paul Ibe, pointed out that those now toying with the idea of an anti-hate speech bill, with punishment by death should exercise much caution. “The contemplation of such laws is in itself not just hate speech, but an abuse of the legislative process that will violate Nigerians’ constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of speech. “Those behind the bill should wake up to the fact that Nigeria’s democracy has survived its longest incarnation because those who governed this great nation between 1999 and 2015 never toyed with this most fundamental of freedoms. It is prudent to build upon the tolerance inherited from those years and not shrink the democratic space to satisfy personal and group interests. “Freedom of Speech was not just bestowed to Nigerians by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), it is also a divine right given to all men by their Creator. History is littered with the very negative unintended consequences that result when this God given right is obstructed by those who seek to intimidate the people rather than accommodate them. “Nigeria presently has too many pressing concerns. We are now the world headquarters for extreme poverty as well as the global epicentre of out-of-school children. Our economy is smaller than it was in 2015, while our population is one of the world’s fastest growing. We have retrogressed in the Corruption Perception Index of Transparency International, from the position we held four years ago, and our Human Development Indexes are abysmally low. “It therefore begs the question: should we not rather make laws to tackle these pressing domestic challenges, instead of this Bill, which many citizens consider obnoxious?” Atiku queried. The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), while reacting to the proposed law in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kunle Edun, admonished the Senate to “tread carefully” with the bill, explaining that the newly introduced bill could not be justified in a democracy. The NBA also reminded the Senate that section 39(3) of the Constitution had made it mandatory that no law could abrogate the rights of Nigerians to exercise their right to freedom of speech. It stated, “We therefore, strongly advise that the Senate should tread carefully on this bill. “Section 39(3) of the Constitution makes it mandatory that no law can abrogate the rights of Nigerians to exercise their right to freedom of speech except if such law can be reasonably justified in a democratic society. “Can a Hate Bill be reasonably justified in a democratic society?” The NBA pointed out that, “With the nation already grappling with wanton arrest and prosecution of citizens from treasonable felony after expressing their opinions”, there might not be any guarantee that the bill when signed into law would not be used to harass those exercising their right to free speech. It noted that while the right to freedom of expression was not absolute, there were enough laws in Nigeria to tackle the excesses, implying that there was no need for the proposed law. In his reaction, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and human rights activist, Mike Ozekhome, described the bill as ill-intentioned and ill-conceived. The senior lawyer added that the bill should immediately be aborted and killed as a malformed embryo at its second reading gestation stage before it is allowed to be delivered as a societal monster. He said: “I pray this provision is not true. I pray it is a mere moonlight tale, the type described as ‘a tale told by an idiot; full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. “This bill should be deleted immediately; the bill should immediately be aborted and killed as a malformed embryo at its second reading gestation stage before it is allowed to be delivered as a societal monster. “This maverick and intolerant government cannot be trusted by any sane person to fairly operate such a draconian piece of legislation introduced under a law that carries the death penalty for alleged hate speech. “When has merely making a speech under Section 39 of the 1999 Constitution, which guarantees freedom of expression, become not just treasonable felony (life imprisonment), but also treason itself that is punishable with death? “Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights guarantees ‘freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. “Nigeria is a signatory to this international instrument. Article 9 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights, also domesticated in Nigeria, reinforces this inalienable freedom that the NASS is attempting to de-robe and destroy.” Ozekhome further noted that the bill was “an ill-intentioned, ill-conceived, ill-digested and ill-part read dictatorial and absolutist piece of nonsensical legislation waiting to consume all of us”. He added: “An obnoxious law such as this will further drive underground and into hiding, the opposition and genuine social critics who speak truth to power and criticise serial, opaque, anti-people, corrupt and high-handed policies of government. “This government has been tested and known to be very allergic to constructive criticisms. Its skin is very negatively thin against criticisms as regards citizens’ genuine concerns. “It is a government that listens to itself, sets its own examination questions, marks them by itself, and award marks to itself.” The Action Democratic Party (ADP), in its reaction, called on the two chambers of the National Assembly to reject and throw out any bill aimed at gagging the freedom of speech of Nigerian citizens. ADP said it was not in the best interest of Nigerians that the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, was calling for the regulation of the social media, maintaining that the party would not fold its arms and watch Nigeria descend into a state of totalitarianism or despotism. In a statement made available to journalists on Tuesday by Adelaja Adeoye, National Publicity Secretary of the party, ADP faulted the promoters of the bill, stressing that it was an anti-people bill, which would not end well. It pointed out that if government officials were clean and had nothing to hide, they should not be afraid of the social media. A former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri, in his reaction, warned the Senate against passing the anti-hate speech bill, saying that if the bill is passed into law, “will one day come back to haunt them.” The former presidential aide on his Twitter page wrote: “They haven’t passed laws to hang killer herdsmen; they haven’t passed laws to hang Boko Haramist (they FREE ‘repentant’ Boko Haram) “They haven’t passed laws to hang corrupt politicians but they want to pass a Bill to hang you for FREE SPEECH! “If the Nigerian Senate bows to pressure and passes this anti-hate speech bill, be it known to them that it was the law General Obasanjo’s government passed in 1976 that Abacha used to sentence Obj to death in 1995. This law, if passed, will one day come back to haunt them!” The Convener, Free Nigeria Movement, Raphael Adebayo, has threatened that his organisation would mobilise Nigerians to resist the proposed anti-hate speech bill. The activist described the planned anti-hate speech commission as an attempt to muzzle Nigerians and deprive the citizens of their rights. Adedayo admonished Nigerians to rise up and oppose the bill, which he said was designed to take away the people’s liberty and constitutional rights, adding that the nation could not allow the National Assembly to pass “this tyrannical legislation.” Also reacting, Yinka Odumakin, spokesman of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere, said the Senate was aiding and abetting full-grown dictatorship in the country by wanting to take away the right of speech. “The Senate is now behaving truly like a rubber stamp assembly. Of all the problems confronting Nigeria today, all they can be doing is to be thinking of establishing an agency for hate speech and the death penalty for offenders. “What constitutes hate speech? It is a subjective interpretation according to the whims and caprices of those in power, so all they are trying to do with this bill is to cow people to submission and propose for execution those who disagree with the way the country is being run. “The way our Senate is doing is making many of us who fought for democracy to ask: what did we fight against in the military rule that we are not witnessing in Nigeria today, especially with this kind of bill by the senate? Nigerians should resist this attempt to turn the country to a full-blown dictatorship.” A chieftain of the PDP, Sunny Onuesoke, has appealed to the Senators to halt further deliberation on the proposed law in the interest of the generality of people and peaceful co-existence of the nation. Onuesoke, who condemned the hate speech Bill while addressing newsmen by the sideline at the World Stage Annual Conference in Lagos on Wednesday, said the Bill, which had passed its first reading on the floor of the Senate, should be aborted and killed as a malformed embryo at its second reading gestation stage before it is allowed to be delivered as a societal monster. Describing the Bill as ridiculous machinery of oppression, intimidation and suppression of the masses, he argued that it is amazing that the Senate had not passed a Bill to hang killer kidnappers, rapist, political thuggery, “they have not passed a Bill to hang corrupt politicians, but they want to pass a Bill to hang the people for speaking against oppression. “How possible can any government control people from speaking out on how they literally feel inside. You cannot be beating up a child and at the same time sealing up his mouth not to cry, that would amount to an abuse, wickedness, and incivility,” he stated. Onuesoke queried the rationale behind having a new agency for hate speech, when there are many agencies that are not productive under the information ministry to sensitise the people and the police to enforce the laws? Though, the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, has insisted that there is no going back on the proposed bill, just as he maintained that if hate speech and fake news are not regulated, it would result in a “national conflagration”. During an interactive session with the Guild of Corporate Online Publishers in Abuja on Friday, he said, “Let me say, straight on, that the intense debate that has been generated by our announcement is a welcome development. “The fear of stifling free speech or muzzling the media is totally unfounded. We have no such plan. As we speak, people are on social media criticising the administration. We have no problem with that.” Mohammed said the uproar would not stop the bill from being passed into law. He stated, “But our concern has to do with the abuse of the social media by those who are bent on spreading fake news and hate speech, and the dangers inherent in that for our national peace and unity. “No responsible government will sit by and allow fake news and hate speech to dominate its media space because of the capacity of this menace to exploit our national fault lines to set us against each other and trigger a national conflagration.” Also, Itse Sagay, Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), said the bill was necessary to restrain the excesses of social media users. Sagay said there was need to control the use of social media because of the way people abused it. He, however, added that there was no way the penalty for hate speech could be death sentence. He said: “There is no way anyone will say death is the penalty for hate speech; not even life imprisonment can be speculated for the offender of the law – maybe a few years of imprisonment will do; so the death penalty could only be a rumour. “However, there is need for control of social media because it is full of hate, bitterness, and lies. People use it to tell a lot of lies and spread untrue stories. I definitely agree that there is need to check the use of social media in the country.” Political watchers and Nigerians in general are watching to see if the 9th Senate led by Ahmed Lawan, will follow the path of honour as it was done by the Bukola Saraki-led Senate, and as a matter of urgency, drop the bill that has been tagged “an anti-people”.