Lagos – The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has released data for global air freight markets showing that demand African carriers posted the fastest growth of any region in September 2019, with an increase in demand of 2.2 per cent, compared to the same period a year earlier. But globally, air freight markets decreased by 4.5 per cent in September 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. However, the 2.2 per cent was a significant slowdown in growth from the 8 per cent recorded in August. Strong trade and investment linkages with Asia and robust economic performance in some key regional economies contributed to the positive performance in Africa, leading to capacity growth of 9.4 per cent year-on-year. Globally, IATA, said air freight markets declined by 4.5 per cent in September 2019, marking the 11th consecutive month of year-on-year decline in freight volumes, the longest period since the global financial crisis in 2008. Freight capacity, measured in available freight tonne kilometers (AFTKs), rose by 2.1 per cent year-on-year in September 2019. Capacity growth has now outstripped demand growth for the 17th consecutive month. Global export orders continue to fall. The Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) tracking new manufacturing export orders has pointed to falling orders since September 2018. “The US-China trade war continues to take its toll on the air cargo industry. October’s pause on tariff hikes between Washington and Beijing is good news. But, trillions of dollars of trade is already affected, which helped fuel September’s 4.5 per cent year-on-year fall in demand. And we can expect the tough business environment for air cargo to continue,” said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director-General. Airlines in Asia-Pacific, Europe, North America and the Middle East suffered sharp declines in year-on-year growth in total air freight volumes in September 2019, while Latin America carriers experienced a more moderate decline. Asia-Pacific airlines saw demand for air freight contract by 4.9 per cent in September 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. The US-China and South Korea-Japan trade wars along with the slowdown in the Chinese economy have significantly impacted this region. More recently, the disruption to operations at Hong Kong International Airport – the largest cargo hub in the world  added additional pressure. With the region accounting for more than 35 per cent of total FTKs, this performance is the major contributor to the weak industry-wide outcome. Air freight capacity increased by 2.7 per cent over the past year. North American airlines saw demand decrease by 4.2 per cent in September 2019, compared to the same period a year earlier. Capacity increased by 1.9 per cent. The US-China trade war and falling business confidence continue to weigh on the region’s carriers. Freight demand has contracted between North America and Europe and between Asia and North America. European airlines posted a 3.3 per cent decrease in freight demand in September 2019 compared to the same period a year earlier. Weaker manufacturing conditions for exporters in Germany, softer regional economies, and ongoing uncertainty over Brexit, have impacted the recent performance. Capacity increased by 3.3 per cent year-on-year.