The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has decried the clampdown on some protesters of ‘Free Sowore Now’ group, who were at the national headquarters of the Department of State Services (DSS) at 3 Arms Zones, Garki, Abuja. Comrade Debo Adeniran, CACOL Executive Chairman, in a statement signed by Adegboyega Otunuga, the group’s Coordinator, Media and Publications, described the DSS attack and teargas of protesters and journalists as shocking and provocative, saying that such were aberration in a true democracy. Adeniran noted that the protesters who were at the DSS headquars on Tuesday to receive their leader, Mr. Sowore Omoyele, who had been in DSS custody for over three months running over an allegation that borders on treasonable felony and ‘cyber stalking’. He stressed: “For the umpteenth time, we are reiterating our position of disappointment over the arrest of Sowore just on the basis of publicly decrying the socio-economic situation in the country and for calling for far reaching reforms that could give necessary reliefs to majority Nigerians. “This is because, felonious offences like treason or treasonable felony go beyond mere mouthing of the word ‘Revolution’, especially in a democracy where people should exercise their rights of expression and opinions, even if suspected to be malicious. “The only option left to any aggrieved party in such circumstance was a resort to court action if such statements are found malicious or derogatory to the aggrieved party, irrespective of how highly placed.” Adeniran maintained that it amounted to adding salt to a wound, where such wrongfully incarcerated was given the benefits of bail by a judge of competent court of jurisdiction, which DSS “willfully and recklessly refused to obey by any means possible, contrary to the rule of law and known tenets of democratic order.” He contended that the rights to protest, associate and assemble for either individual or collective interests is a fundamental right of citizens as enshrined and recognised by the 1999 Nigerian Constitution (as amended). “These rights are not qualified or deflated by place or location, especially where such location is a public space like the Secret Police headquarters in Abuja, or even the State House itself. This is why protests have been held by their citizens, severally at the Capitol or CIA, FBI Headquarters in United States of America (USA), United Kingdom, UK, and other democracies in the world.”