Lagos – Buoyed down by plethora of issues ranging from double taxation, non-appointment of substantive chairman for the advertising regulatory agency in over five years and on, non-constitution of the Council among other things expected to enhance the practice of advertising in Nigeria, the convening of the national advertising conference, according to Mrs. Ijedi Iyoha, APCON’s Acting Registrar is a compelling forum for members and sectoral groups to address some of the burning issues in the over 100 billion dollar advertising industry in Nigeria. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos ahead of the conference, Mrs. Ijedi Iyoha, said the National Advertising Conference with the theme “Advertising in the Post-digital age: The Profession, The Business and Nigeria’s Socio-Economic Development’, aims at drawing the attention of the government, policy makers, business community and the wider public to the importance of Advertising. “The National Advertising Conference is an initiative of the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria, which identified the need for the conference as one way of raising the professional standing of advertising practice in Nigeria and compelling the attention of the government, business leaders and policy makers as well as the general public to the impact and value of Advertising. “You are no doubt familiar with the fact that the Advertising industry in Nigeria is structured around sectoral associations which, apart from self-regulating their member-organisations, cater to the interests of organisations which belong to their respective specialised areas of practice. “All of these associations have embraced the National Advertising conference and have their members represented in the Conference Planning Committee,” she said. The APCON Registrar also explained that the conference will afford advertising practitioners the opportunity to discuss challenges faced by the profession, proffer solutions and chart a course for the development of the sector. The conference, according to Iyoha, will be declared open by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, while Mr. Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, will declare it closed. The keynote address on the conference theme, she added, will be delivered by Mr. Lolu Akinwunmi, Chairman, Prima Garnet Africa and former APCON Chairman. Speaking further on the conference’s theme, Steve Babaeko, Vice President of the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN), noted that it is pertinent for all advertising stakeholders to discuss the role of technology in the profession. He explained that stakeholders in the profession have no choice than to adapt to and utilise technological solutions to ensure that their businesses survive and prosper in this contemporary age. “Even if we choose not to work and take those phenomena you have listed into account, I don’t think that we have any choice than to do that. This is the age we live in, everything is changing. You can see that banking and all other industries are disrupted by all technological phenomenons such as block chain, Artificial Intelligence, machine learning and all of them. So, as advertising people, we have no choice because once you find the ground shifting under your feet, you must also learn the art of balancing to move forward,” Babaeko said The National Advertising Conference is scheduled to hold in Abuja in November 26 and 27, 2019. Iyoha stated further that NAC will provide opportunity for advertising practitioners to take stock, review the prospects and challenges of the profession and chart a course for the further development of the advertising profession in Nigeria. The conference has the support of other sectoral associations including Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN), Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN), Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria (BON), Media Independent Association of Nigeria (MIPAN), Outdoor Advertising association of Nigeria (OAAN) and Newspaper proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN). Others are Experiential Association of Nigeria (EXMAN) , International Advertising Association (IAA) and  ACSPN