Managing Director of Julius Berger Nigeria PLC, Engr. Dr. Lars Richter was at the weekend awarded the Fellowship of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (FNIQS) by recognising the Company as central to the country’s infrastructural development in the roads sector. He was represented by Mr. Tobias Meletschus, the company’s Director of Corporate Development, while Mr. Alexander Bauer, the Western Regional Manager of the company in Lagos, also bagged the NIQS Fellowship at the same event. A respected elder of the Institute, Alhaji Adamu Mu’azu and former Governor of Bauchi State and a fellow of the NIQS, poured encomiums on Julius Berger Nigeria PLC, which he described as highly professional and central to the country’s infrastructural development in the roads sector. Mu’azu who was Chairman of the Investiture ceremony held in Lagos, in his welcome address recalled his encounter with Julius Berger as the Governor of Bauchi state. He said: “I am full of gratitude to the Institute, our Institute, the Institute I belong to for this unique event. I congratulate all the recipients of the NIQS Fellowship, especially the MDs and CEOs of the construction companies for their awards which they rightly deserve. I recall a case in point to underline what I mean. “When I was Governor of Bauchi State, I wanted to construct good roads for the State. I stressed myself and drove all the way to Abuja to Julius Berger to see the then Managing Director of the company. I think he was Mr. Marks (who is presently the Vice Chairman of Julius Berger). I got there and filled the visitor’s form and waited to see him. And when we eventually met in his office, I introduced myself and told him I wanted good roads for Bauchi. “He was very delighted, and professionally so. I am delighted to say that Julius Berger did a very great job in Bauchi. They should and must continue their good works as they remain central to road infrastructural development in this country. Other construction companies in this country should be doing same.” Obafemi Oluwole Onashile, the NIQS President, said Investiture events were strategies designed to expand the coast of the NIQS. He added that the status of the awardees at the event was a statement being deliberately made by the Institute to show that they are major players in that direction. He further explained that the readiness of Julius Berger, and others to share in the vision of the NIQS in the areas of employment and training of Quantity Surveyors was commendable.