LAGOS – Bharti Airtel posted a consolidated net loss of $3.23 billion (230.4 billion Indian rupees) after the telco took charge of a one-time $4.3 billion potential outstanding payment to the government related to a court dispute surrounding 14-year-old adjusted gross revenue. The telecom company is selling assets and paying down debt while losing money on its operations and facing a Supreme Court ruling to pay overdue fees related to spectrum and licences. Net loss was Rs 23,040 crore for the three months ended September, the India’s third-largest wireless carrier said in a statement at weekend. That compares with the Rs 1,420 crore losses based on average analyst estimates. Revenue came in at Rs 21,130 crore. Bharti, once the top carrier in India by subscribers, dragged Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. also into its first quarterly loss. Singtel, as an investor in Bharti’s holding company, made a provision in its books for the unprofitable carrier and posted a net loss of $490.2m (S$668m). Bharti is selling assets and paying down debt while losing money on its operations and facing a Supreme Court ruling ordering it to pay about $3bn in overdue fees related to spectrum and licenses. India’s top court last month ordered the country’s carriers to pay a combined 920 billion rupees, dealing a blow to Bharti and Vodafone Idea Ltd., which were already struggling to keep subscribers and revenue amid a price war with upstart Reliance Jio. Wireless carriers have sought relief from the government, with rival Vodafone Idea Ltd.’s parent calling the situation ‘critical’. The latest numbers are a “humongous loss” for Bharti, said Sanjiv Bhasin, executive vice president at IIFL Securities Ltd. “The government should take sincere efforts to find solutions to the real problems of Indian telcos,” he said. In related development, Bharti Airtel has called banks out to raise up to $3bn (around Rs 21,000 crore) predominantly to pay the dues on account of adjusted gross revenue (AGR). A senior executive with a global bank said the obligation to pay the AGR dues as fallout of the Supreme Court ruling was expected to put huge pressure on the existing resources of the mobile operator. A Bharti Airtel spokesperson declined to comment on the company’s plans to raise fresh funds from banks.