Benin – The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State has suspended the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over his role in the crisis rocking the state chapter of the party. The decision was taken after the vote of no confidence passed on Oshiomhole by the chairmen of the APC in the 18 Local Government Areas of the state. According to a statement signed by Edo APC chairman, Anselm Ojezua, and Assistant State Secretary, Ikuenobe Anthony, “Consequent on the development, the State Executive Committee has adopted the vote of no confidence passed on him and the subsisting suspension order from the organs of the party in the state.” They said the decision was necessary to prevent a repeat of what happened in Zamfara State, where the party was unable to field any candidate in the 2019 elections. “Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is the one behind the crisis in Edo APC. We have passed a vote of no confidence in him and he stands suspended from the party. “We don’t want what happened in Zamfara State or other parts of the country to happen in Edo State.” Earlier, APC chairmen across the 18 local government areas of Edo State passed a vote of no confidence in the party’s national chairman on Tuesday. Also, the entire state chapter of the APC was said to have removed the state secretary, Lawrence Okah, and passed a vote of confidence in the leadership of the state chairman, Anselm Ojezua. Two members of the party’s executive, who were abducted on Monday and forced to append their signatures to a document against Barrister Ojezua, have said that the document was not binding as it was signed at gunpoint. They also said the signatures were not genuine as they had to scribble things on the document just to escape unhurt. Briefing newsmen after the meeting of the party’s State Executive Committee earlier, the deputy state chairman of the party, Engr. Kenneth Asekomhe, said: “After the meeting of the State Executive Committee, in pursuance of Article 17, section 5 of the APC constitution of 2014, as amended, we the undersigned members passed a vote of no confidence on the state secretary of the party, Lawrence Okah. He is hereby removed from office. “The committee also passed a vote of confidence on the state chairman of APC, Anselm Ojezua.” The APC chairmen in the 18 LGAs of the state also reaffirmed their support for the second term bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki on account of his developmental strides. The chairmen passed a vote of no confidence in the national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The APC chairman in Esan Central LGA and Secretary, Edo State APC Chairmen Forum, Hon. Mike Anakaso, said the chairmen passed a vote of no confidence in Oshiomhole for his role in trying to disintegrate the party in Edo State. He warned: “Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is the one behind the crisis in Edo APC and we have passed a vote of no confidence on him. We don’t want what happened in Zamfara or other parts of the country to happen in Edo State.” Meanwhile, the auditor of the state chapter of the party, Comrade Timothy Osadolor, and its financial secretary, Princess Golda Oribhabor-Onwuka, have distanced themselves from a document purporting to remove the state chairman, Anselm Ojezua, from office. Speaking at the party’s state secretariat, the duo explained that they were taken in a commando-style to the residence of the suspended secretary of the party, Lawrence Okah, and forced to sign the document. Giving details of the incident, the auditor, Comrade Osadolor, explained that they were invited by a colleague for a meeting before they were whisked off to Okah’s residence. He said he was threatened and asked to sign the document if he wanted to leave the residence alive, noting that he had to append a fake signature against his name to regain freedom. According to him, “What happened, to the best of my knowledge, is an act of desperation taken too far. “We were taken in a commando-style to the house of the state secretary, where I was forced to sign the documents purportedly removing Anslem Ojezua. “There were just eight or nine signatures on the document. My name was badly spelt. I didn’t draw their attention to it but had to play along by signing the document with a fake signature.” Similarly, Oribhabor-Onwuka emphasised that she signed the document under duress. Recall that in an earlier statement signed by the Assistant State Secretary, Ikuenobe Anthony, Esq., the party had announced the decision to sack Okah. Anthony said the decision was taken after a meeting of the State Executive Committee on Tuesday, November 12, 2019, where a vote of no confidence was passed in Okah.