LAGOS – The Ijaw People’s Development Initiative (IPDI), a Niger Delta political pressure group, has called on the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, to urgently withdraw officers and men of the 81 Division of the Nigerian Army and reshuffle soldiers who have served over four years in North-East. Austin Ozobo, a Niger Delta advocate of justice and IPDI National President, in a letter to Lt.-Gen. Buratai, a copy which was made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Monday, said it had come to the organisation’s notice that several southern Army officials deployed to the North East to prosecute the Boko Haram war were being maltreated. While calling on Buratai to investigate the allegation, Ozobo said his group had been reliability informed that the authorities of 81 Division of 353 Artillery Reg, Ojo Cantonment Unit, Lagos State, 192 Battalion Owode Yawe Unit, Ogun State, and 35 Artillery Brigade Alamala Barrack Unit, Ogun State, had refused to withdraw or reshuffle their soldiers who had served in the North-East for the period of five years, while other divisions had since changed their long-serving soldiers in the troubled region. Ozobo, in the letter copied the Senate Committee on Human Rights and Public Complaints as well as Amnesty International (AI), added: “We wonder why the case of the affected soldiers is different as such amounts to sectionalism in the Nigerian Army, which is creating bad image about the noble military profession. He said that soldiers who had stayed in a particular location are withdrawn and sometimes reshuffled back to original barracks of such personnel to reunite with their families and loved ones. “Besides, the affected soldiers are at the verge of losing their homes and families as their wives have resorted to extra-marital affairs and eventual divorce. Their children have dropped out of schools and have turned orphans, as their mothers can no longer provide for them. “Sir, this singular act is capable of demoralising and bringing unstable mind and mental stress on such affected Army officials at the battle front.” The IPDI president and frontline activist stressed that the Nigerian Army had been known for its high level of discipline and coordination, “but, we are perplexed hearing this from a section of the Nigerian Army. “We want to state unequivocally that soldiers who have gallantly stayed in the North East for over four years, should be rewarded and promoted for their diligence and hardwork, as a away to encourage fellow soldiers yet to be deployed to the North East. “We, therefore, call on your office to expedite action by launching an investigation into the issues raised with a view to doing the needful by withdrawing the affected soldiers from the North East back to their original barracks to reunite with their families.”