The plot to remove Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is still on as it thickened at the weekend after the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting when 43 of its members demanded his resignation. Sources said the battle has shifted to Jos. The aggrieved NEC members, at a press briefing at the weekend in Abuja, after the NEC meeting, had accused Oshiomhole of abruptly ending the NEC meeting. Oshiomhole’s fate hangs in the balance as major stakeholders converge on Jos, the Plateau State capital, from Sunday and today for what an impeccable source called a “retreat”. The Zamfara State APC chairman, Lawal Liman, who spoke on their behalf, said most of the goodwill acquired by the party at inception had taken a downturn under the former Edo State governor. He said: “The APC was founded as a platform for the progressives in Nigeria in 2014, with ‘Change’ as the slogan of the party. “The party was positively embraced by the citizens of Nigeria, culminating in the record-breaking victory of President Muhammadu Buhari as the first opposition leader to defeat an incumbent president. “Most of the goodwill acquired by the party, by reasons of its religious adherence to the provisions of its constitution and the tenets of internal democratic practices, has taken a downturn, principally due to the dictatorial and despotic tendencies of the national chairman, who has usurped the powers of the National Executive Committee of the party. “This may have been responsible for the admonition of Mr. President who insisted that the party organs, at the state, LGA, and ward levels must be strengthened and accorded due respect with regards to the powers and responsibilities conferred on them by the constitution of the party. “Most, unfortunately, the facade presented by the national chairman today at a National Executive Committee meeting leaves much to be desired. “He completely ignored Mr. President’s advice and rather defied all known rules for meetings by precluding contributions from members and ending the meeting abruptly, without achieving anything. This is most unfortunate and undesirable. “Arising from the foregoing and, having regards to the huge responsibilities bestowed on us as officers of the party and in the overriding interest of our members, we are left with no option but to demand that Adams Oshiomhole resign his position as national chairman, in order to stem the slide and provide an enabling environment for genuine healing, reconciliation, and the practice of true democracy within the party across the country.” The signatories to the call for Oshiomhole’s removal included Bala Kangiwa (Kebbi chairman), Habibi Sara (Jigawa chairman), Ade Adetimehin (Ondo chairman), Abdullahi Abbas (Kano chairman), Abba Yaro (Benue chairman), Omotoso Paul (Ekiti), and Mohammed Iman (Niger chairman). They also included Anslem Ojezua (Edo chairman), Philips Shekwo (Nasarawa chairman), Air Commodore Ikeda (Kaduna chairman), Lakep Dabah (Plateau chairman), Shitu Shitu (Katsina chairman), Isah Acida (Sokoto), and Zonal Youth Leader (South West), and Lawal Bolade. The fate of Oshiomhole would be decided in Jos, Plateau State, where President Buhari and governors elected on the platform of the APC are scheduled to hold a strategic meeting which started Sunday and will continue today. Secretary to the Plateau State government, Prof. Danladi Atu, confirmed the development at a press conference in Jos. Atu said other dignitaries expected at the meeting would include the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and at least 17 ministers. According to him, the meeting would provide an opportunity for the APC governors to share ideas on how to deepen governance in their respective states and provide dividends of democracy to the people. He said: “The latest meeting of the APC governors coming up in Jos is the third in the series after the previous ones in Ekiti and Kebbi states. “The essence is for the governors to share ideas and learn from each other how best to provide good governance to the people in line with the APC manifesto. “And that is why Mr. President has accepted to be part of the meeting. The Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, as well as about 17 ministers, will also be in attendance.” More facts also emerged on Sunday on how President Buhari saved Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha (Imo West), and Senator Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun West) from being expelled from the party at the last NEC meeting. But for the timely intervention of the president as well as no fewer than 10 governors of the APC, Governor Akeredolu would have been expelled from the party on Friday. A source close to the Presidential Villa, venue of last Thursday’s national caucus meeting of the party, told Daily Independent that the Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC had, indeed, plotted the expulsion of the trio a few hours before the meeting and was set to announce same to the meeting. According to the source, the APC NWC members who were worried and disturbed by the possible outcome of the development had exposed the plot to a governor from the North West (names withheld) who immediately mobilised a few other APC governors. President Buhari will arrive Jos today for the two-day meeting with governors elected on the platform of the APC. “They call it a retreat but I can tell you that they are going to discuss very fundamental issues, especially as there are calls for the resignation of the national chairman. It’s a very dicey waiting game,” a source said. All the same, a North West governor was said to have sought the president’s intervention to call Oshiomhole to order without which he would personally move a motion to pass a vote of no confidence in the national chairman at the NEC meeting. The planned expulsion of the Ondo governor was hatched even as he was officially invited to both meetings of the caucus and NEC. “Thursday’s caucus meeting was what saved our party. The national chairman had wanted to announce to the meeting the suspension of the governor and the senators and to further seek the nod of caucus to expel them. “But we were lucky that before the meeting, there was a brief meeting between the chairman and Mr. President where he was told in plain language that such was not going to be allowed. “In fact, the president asked him if the spate of suspensions have helped the party in any form. Aside that, he was reminded that with the brewing crisis in his home state, Edo, it was unwise for him to revisit the issue of suspension. “So, as it stands, the issue of suspension has died a natural death and I’m sure it won’t be raised. But to save the face of the NWC, there was a subtle understanding not to be silent over the issue. “So, the stories on the social media about supposed resolutions are fake and procured by some observed vested interests in the three states. We can’t afford to lose any state, not anymore,” he said.