LAGOS – Former Super Eagles’ striker, Victor Ikpeba has given reasons why Liverpool’s Senegalese star, Sadio Mane stands a good chance to win the 2019 African Footballer of the Year (POTY) award ahead of the trio of his countrymen, Odion Ighalo, Wilfred Ndidi and Victor Osimhen. The Confederation of African Football (CAF) named the Nigerians alongside two-time winner of the award, Mohammed Salah and others as nominees for this year’s award billed to hold in Cairo, Egypt on Tuesday, January 7, 2020. Ikpeba said Mane has really lived up to expectations and in a better position to win the award even ahead of his Liverpool teammate, Salah. “The Senegalese star created immense personal and collective marks during the year in review, which means he deserves to be winner of the 2019 CAF African Footballer of The Year award. “It will be difficult for the Nigerians to win it. The only Nigerian player with some chance will be Ighalo who was the top scorer at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). “Maybe when you come to the CAF Best XI, Ndidi has a chance to make it. Ighalo definitely has a chance to be part of the XI but it is looking good for Mane. “People might argue that he didn’t win the AFCON but he helped Senegal reach the final and Liverpool to win the UEFA Champions League (UCL) back in June,” said Ikpeba. Meanwhile, former Nigeria defender, Ajibade Babalade has expressed doubts over the possibility of a Nigerian player winning the award for now. “I don’t think a Nigerian player will win this time again because we still have some other African players doing well too, players like Mane, Salah and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. “Ighalo, Osimhen and Ndidi have had their moments this calendar year but the form of the three I mentioned have been consistent. We (Nigeria) may eventually win something in the Young Player award. “Samuel Chukwueze may really win it for his club and country performances,” said Ajibade, who was a member of the Super Eagles side to the 1992 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). On the chances of a Nigerian defender in few years’ time winning the award, Babalade insists it will take massive efforts for that to happen. “For a defender to win it, it’s going to be huge efforts from them. I can’t say for now whether we have defenders who can win it. Maybe in the near future,” he said.