LAGOS – Last Thursday, the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria led by its Chairman, Rt. Hon Mudashiru Obasa, met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, where the Speakers urged the president to issue an executive on financial autonomy to state legislatures. Obasa, who is the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, while speaking on behalf of the conference, wanted the president’s executive order to mandate the Accountant General of Federation (AGF) to separate funds for the state legislature and judiciary at the source. While commending the president for the fight against corruption and insurgency, and efforts to ensure financial autonomy for the legislature and judiciary, he also urged Buhari to consider supporting the devolution of powers to states on some issues on the exclusive list like railway and the police for more effective governance. He further implored President Buhari to create time out of his busy schedule to relate with state legislators in order to understand their progress, challenges and to share ideas with them. Buhari, in his response, charged lawmakers in the country to always prioritise the interest of the people in all deliberations and negotiations, explaining that the autonomy of state legislatures has been constrained by the constitution. He said the constitution upholds the standard for all public officers and institutional operations and such must be adhered to, or altered to reflect some dynamics and realities of the country. “I try as much as I can to always be loyal and obedient to the constitution so long as it is humanly possible”, Buhari said, adding that his administration will keep pursuing the prosperity of all Nigerians by creating more jobs for the people and plugging the weaknesses exploited by many to make quick money. “The 8th National Assembly sometimes kept the budget for seven months. And I had to call the Senate President and the Speaker then. I told them that by delaying passage of the budget you are not hurting Buhari, but the people,” he added. The President promised that he will ensure equity and fairness that put the ordinary Nigerian on top priority, just as he pledged that he will continue to focus on health, education, infrastructure and improving lives through social intervention programmes. “We have in the last four years dedicated significant resources to key social services sectors especially in health, education as well as our massive social investment programs. We have also started restoring our in frastructure to levels that this country expects. “I also want to assure you that we remain committed to ensuring that equity and fairness prevail in governance. I will ensure that we consult your conference to further enhance the positive impact of our interventions across the country,” Buhari said. Section 121(3) of the Constitution provides for the amount standing to the credit of the House of Assembly of a State in the Consolidated Revenue Fund to be paid directly to the State Legislature. However, in the case of the Judiciary such amounts are to be paid directly to the heads of the courts concerned. It would be recalled that Buhari, in December 2018, constituted a Presidential Implementation Committee on Autonomy of State Legislature and State Judiciary, in accordance with the Fourth Alteration to the 1999 Constitution. The committee, which was constituted to drive the actualisation of the autonomy granted to the legislature and judiciary at the state level, has the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, as the Chairman, with the then Presidential Liaison, Senator Ita Enang, acting as the Secretary. The committee was also saddled with the responsibility of assessing and reviewing the level of compliance by all the 36 States of the Federation with Section 121(3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). However, at a retreat held in Abuja in May 2019, the committee adopted a communiqué on the modalities to implement the assented Constitution Alteration Act granting financial autonomy to State Legislatures and State Judiciary. The retreat, which was supported by the Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre (PLAC) and the British Department for International Development (DFID), culminated in the adoption of resolutions, which include: “Adopting the budget model operating at the federal level where the sum due to the judiciary and the legislature are captured as First Line Charge in the Budget laid before the Legislature. “Calling for the release of the capital and recurrent sum approved in the Annual Budget of the State (on a pro-rata basis) by the Accountant General of the State directly to the Heads of the Legislature, the Judiciary, Heads of the Judicial Service Committee or Commission. “Abolishing the current practice in some states where appropriated recurrent expenditure due to the Judiciary and the Legislature in the budget are released to the Judiciary and the Legislature but the capital components are warehoused in the Executive.” Enang, had in July, disclosed that, based on the recommendations of the committee, the president will soon sign an executive order that would further give bite to the implementation of financial autonomy for both arms of government. Enang, who alleged that some governors have been showing resistance in implementing the relevant law on financial autonomy for the affected arms of government, pointed out that as soon as the president issues the executive order to back the recommendations of the committee, the team would move to the field to ensure that the legal provisions on financial autonomy is implemented. Also, Malami, while presenting the report of the committee to Buhari in Many, 2019, alleged that most states flouted the constitutional provisions on financial autonomy for the two arms of government. He told the President that the implementation would strengthen democracy by giving full recognition to the Principle of Separation of Powers at state level. However, he said the committee found out that most states rarely complied with legal provisions on financial autonomy. “The committee observed that most states honoured the constitutional provisions for financial autonomy in the breach, than in observance, the legislature and judiciary remained the last hope of the common man and should be given autonomy.” “The recommendations clearly spell out that if uniform modules for implementation of financial autonomy for state legislature and state judiciary are approved for implementation in the 36 states, it will no doubt strengthen Nigeria’s democratic principles, practices and public governance,” Malami added. But despite these claims, the governors had though its forum, expressed their readiness to support the autonomy of the two arms. The then Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum, and former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, said in May, 2019 that, “I totally align with the motion that autonomy for the legislature and the judiciary is a necessary precondition for an enduring democracy. “This enhances efficiency, transparency and accountability in government. May I also assure you that the state governors are collectively committed to the enthronement of a strong and viral democracy in Nigeria and will work with the Federal Government to achieve the national implementation strategy and ultimately ensure full autonomy of the legislature and judiciary at sub-national levels. The NGF fully supports Mr President’s reform agenda and shares in his passion for transparency and zero corruption.” With the recent request by the Conference of Speakers requesting the president to issue an executive order, it is hoped that President Buhari would be magnanimous enough to heed to the call by the state legislators, which will in turn also be of benefit to the judicial arm.