ABUJA – A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, has summoned the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof Charles Dokubo to appear before it on Tuesday, November 12, 2019. Presiding Judge, Justice Ahmed Mohammed made the order upon an ex parte application, marked FHC/Abj/CS/1240/2019, filed by one Mr Fred Ujobolo, an indigene of Delta state. The Plaintiff/Applicant, according to an affidavit in support of the court process, is the youth leader in the Niger Delta and the President of the Niger Delta Youth Vanguard for the All Progressives Congress since 2013. Delivering ruling on the exparte motion, Justice Mohammed directed the defendants to appear on November and show cause why the interim order of injunction being sought by the plaintiff/applicant should not be granted. The court also directed that the plaintiff’s motion ex parte dated October 30, 2019, which seeks for an interim injunction be served on the respondents for them  to be in a position to respond to by showing cause. In addition, Justice Mohammed ordered the plaintiff to within the next 24 hours from time of the order, file a motion on notice for interlocutory injunction alongside the ex parte application so that both processes could be served together on the respondents. The court said the order was made pursuant to provisions of Order 26 Rule 8(c) and Rule 11 of the Federal High Court Rules 2019. Mr Ujobolo, through his lawyer K.O Omosehin Esq, had prayed  for an ex parte order of interim injunction restraining Prof Dokubo from continuing to occupy, act as and enjoy the office of the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and the Coordinator, Presidential Amnesty Programme pending the determination of the substantive suit by the Court. An affidavit deposed to by one Jeffrey Amosu, spokesperson of Niger Delta Transparency and Accountability Movement, claimed that despite the pendency of the suit, Prof Dokubo has continued to act, occupy and enjoy the office of and as Special Adviser of the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme. That “On 29th October 2019, the 1st Defendant appeared, presented and defended the 2020 Fiscal Budget of the office of the Special Adviser on Niger Delta before the National Assembly. “In the course of the plenary session at the National Assembly, the 1st Defendant introduced and represented himself as the Special Adviser on Niger Delta and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme.” The deponent averred that unless the Court urgently grants the orders sought by the motion ex parte dated 30the October 2019 and restrains the 1st Defendant from continuing to act, he will continue with the implementation of the budget of the 2020 Fiscal Budget of the office of the Special Adviser on Niger Delta and the Applicant would suffer irreparable damage.