NigerStar 7, a leading contractor in Nigeria’s offshore energy sector, has added two offshore construction vessels to its flagship Nigerian fleet. The vessel reflagging event was held at an elaborate event at Nigerdock’s facility on Snake Island in Lagos. The company has acquired and reflagged the Seven Antares and Seven Inagha offshore construction support vessels, marking NigerStar 7’s investment in Nigeria, and support for government policies on local content. Seven Antares is a modern pipelay and accommodation vessel with a 300 tonnes crane, ideal for conventional offshore projects in shallow and slightly deeper waters.  Seven Inagha is a modern Jack-Up accommodation and crane barge, suited to shallow water depths.  NigerStar 7 was created by Subsea 7 and Jagal, two leaders in the Nigerian energy industry, in response to the opportunities created by the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development Act. The company’s vision is to be the leading Nigerian offshore contractor serving the country’s offshore energy industry with the capability and capacity to execute the largest and most complex offshore projects. A ceremony to mark the reflagging of the vessels was hosted by Mr Mele Kyari, the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, at Snake Island Integrated Free Zone, a leading West African port and industrial free zone in Lagos. Anwar Jarmakani, the Chairman of NigerStar 7, Jagal and Nigerdock, at the ceremony said: “NigerStar 7 is focused on creating employment opportunities and capacity development, supported by a modern and versatile fleet of marine assets, permanently imported and proudly Nigerian flagged.”  NigerStar 7 has been growing its presence in Nigeria with operations in Lagos, Port Harcourt, Warri, including marine facilities at the strategic Nigerdock Support Base, owned by Jagal. Yann Cottart, the Chief Executive Officer at NigerStar 7 added: “Our mission is to build human and material capacity to cost-effectively serve Nigeria’s offshore energy industry and our vision is to be recognised by our clients as the contractor of choice. Today, with the new additions to our vessel fleet, we are closer to our goal.”  Following recent announcements by the Federal Government of Nigeria, new strategic targets have been set to increase national oil production to 3 million barrels per day. This latest acquisition by NigerStar 7 of two construction vessels places the company in good stead to support the region.