OSOGBO – It was cheering news to the students, teachers and management staff of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomosho, as well as stakeholders when governors of the two owner states, Oyo and Osun, met on October 30, 2019 in Abuja to discuss the lingering crisis rocking the institution. The meeting reported to be at the instance of the governing council of the university was the first ever the two visitors to the university would hold together on the subject matter. At the end of the peace parley, they agreed to have a 10-man joint committee to analyse the issues at stake and come up with various options that would finally lay the matters to rest. Each time there was ownership crisis in the university, both the students and staff suffer. The workers suffer either by not having their salaries and entitlements paid as and when due while students are forced to stay at home or rather overstay on campus beyond their normal academic years and the institution is also gradually losing its academic feats, recognition and standard among its peers. A similar committee had been raised in the past by the administration of Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola of Osun and Chief Adebayo Alao Akala of Oyo State. The committee headed by the pioneer Chief Executive Officer and Registrar of National Business and Technical Examination Board (NABTEB), Prof. Olu Aina, in its report recommended among other things, that one of the partners, Osun should give her ownership power to Oyo owing to some reasons so that permanent peace could return to the 29-year-old institution. One of the reasons adduced by the committee was that since Osun is having its own state university and over 90% of LAUTECH’s structures were constructed and located in Ogbomosho in Oyo State whereas Osun State which is equal partner in the joint arrangement only has the university’s teaching hospital, it would be better for Osun to give its ownership and concentrate on few it has and make them workable while compensation would be worked out as well. Indeed, only one out of the eight academic faculties is located in Osun State. Oyo State also has about twice of the staff strength of the university but at the end, recommendations of the visitation panel/committee were jettisoned on the alleged excuse that that was not the original vision of the founding fathers of the university. Professor Aina in a recent interview with Sunday INDEPENDENT did not mince words when he said that his team weighed all factors into considerations before arriving at the option. Aina is one of the founding fathers of LAUTECH and indeed wrote the academic brief of the university. He said in the interview that, “I did not for see an end to the crisis currently rocking LAUTECH as of now, but my forecast is that one day, Osun will give up ownership of LAUTECH to Oyo. I believe so and I think it is the right decision and sooner the better. “I don’t know who was displeased with our decision then but we saw that that was the solution and before you knew it, we started hearing that that was not the vision of the founding fathers. I was one of the founding fathers, there was no time we said Osun should continue to hang on to it. Even at that time, we did not envisage the creation of Osun State University. “Up till today, I feel strongly that that would have been the solution as at that time and now I don’t think it is too late for us to revisit that report,” Aina said. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State had earlier indicated the willingness of his administration to become sole ownership of the university and sever the joint ownership provided Osun State agree to the indication but reliable feelers from Osun revealed that the state will critically look into the Oyo’s request in line with the law and edict establishing the institution and demand justice. With the present situation, Osun State, which is an equal partner in the joint ownership will continue to feel cheated because the joint funding arrangement of the university by the two states had collapsed since 2013 when Oyo State allegedly stopped releasing money to take care of salaries of workers in the university’s teaching hospital located in Osogbo, Osun State. Osun State Government claimed in a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Gboyega Oyetola, Ismail Omipidan, that it has since been taken up financial responsibilities of the teaching hospital and still contributing to the University in Ogbomosho. Oyo State Government under the administration of Chief Adebayo Alao Akala also built another giant teaching hospital for the university in Ogbomosho to allegedly replace the one in Osogbo which was the original arm of the institution and it is against the law and edict establishing the university. The law and edict establishing the university indicated that while the university is based in Ogbomosho, the teaching hospital should be at Osogbo which was then the headquarters of Osun Province before Osun State was carved out of Old Oyo State in 1990. Aside from the above factor, why Osun State feels cheated in the current scenario is the fact that Oyo has about twice of the staff strength of the university and most decisions taken concerning the university is at the mercy of Oyo. Even, workers of the university had already divided along their state of origin while those in majority always have their say and those in minority are denied equal rights and feels like being subjugated to others. Also, the traditional ruler of Ogbomosho, Oba Oyewumi Ajagungbade in recent times appeared to be having some uncontrollable influence on the running of the institution and was also championing the sole ownership of the university by Oyo State. Further investigations by Sunday INDEPENDENT revealed that whenever an Osun indigene is appointed the Vice Chancellor of the university, he or she does not enjoy full loyalty and support of the staff. Even, assuming Oyo State was ready for sole ownership of LAUTECH, the question yet to be answered is did the state ready to pay compensation to Osun? This is the area where the Federal Ministry of Education, National University Commission and other relevant stakeholders have to come and do needful on the crisis of joint ownership and put the university back on good footing. While the stakeholders are eagerly waiting for the constitution of the 10-man joint committee and their outcome on the crisis in the university, the fact still remains that the joint ownership of the university has outstayed and no longer fashionable because things will continue to go awry should the joint ownership of the university is allowed further. Oyo is also pushing for separation because it has advantage over her counterpart in Osun while Osun could not get adequate compensation for what it has committed into the joint ownership in the last 29 years of the creation of the university. Aina had stressed that there is no other better solution than Osun should give up its ownership of the institution and that the National University Commission (NUC) should make arrangements for sharing of assets and liabilities.