Chelsea will go head-to-head with Barcelona over the potential transfer of £70million-rated Reinier if their ban is lifted. Reiner, an attacking-midfielder who plays for Flamengo in Brazil, is highly rated and has been making waves in his home country with his outstanding ability. Chelsea, however, are still banned from making transfers, following a sanction imposed on them by FIFA over their previous recruitment of foreign minors. Manager Frank Lampard, who became Chelsea boss in the summer, was unable to make any signings upon his arrival and has had to make do with his current crop. Chelsea are becoming confident their transfer ban could be lifted by the time the January transfer window rolls around, with a hearing at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) scheduled for November. Express Sport understands Reinier is high on the list of Chelsea chief’s minds, despite their current inability to sign anyone. Lampard will likely look to reshape his squad as the season goes on, especially if they are able to make signings in January. Reinier would provide competition for Chelsea’s already strong attacking line, which boasts Callum Hudson-Odoi, Christian Pulisic, Willian, Pedro and Tammy Abraham. Chelsea planning to fight Barcelona for £70m Reinier as Blues await transfer ban decision The 17-year-old has scored four times in 12 appearances for the Brazilian side this season, and his talent has been lauded by chiefs in Barcelona as well. There have been an abundance of clubs who have sent scouts to watch Reinier in action, but Chelsea are serious in their interest of the starlet. Manchester City and Arsenal are two other Premier League clubs keeping tabs on Reinier, who Flamengo aren’t willing to let go for less than £70m. Chelsea are third in the Premier League this season and have enjoyed a successful first third of the 2019/20 campaign. Lampard has put his trust in Chelsea’s youth players and his decision to do so has paid off dividends as Abraham, is the top scorer in the Premier League this season with 11 goals. The likes of Hudson-Odoi, Mason Mount, Reece James and Fikayo Tomori have all been brilliant for Chelsea this season and have chipped in with eight goals between them.