P/HARCOURT – The hullabaloo and public outcry over the alleged slow pace of work in the ongoing Ogoni clean-up appears to have naturally died down. This is much so because the actual exercise had since moved from table work to the various remediation sites cut across the four local government areas of Ogoniland which is made up of Tai, Eleme, Khana and Gokana. And virtually everybody seems to be happy with the progress of work done so far. It would be recalled that the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP), set up by government to midwife the cleanup after it was flagged off in 2016 at Bodo community by President Muhammadu Buhari represented by his Vice, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, had been on the receiving end of public criticism. At the forefront of the attacks were rights activists and some Ogonis who felt they were sidelined from the management of the Ogoni big cake. HYPREP was often bashed for being too slow in mobilising contractors to sites to commence the exercise. People also expected to see some heavy duty equipment shipped to the pollution areas to commence the excavation and otherwise of the polluted soil. But the responsibility of cleaning up a densely polluted environment spanning many decades, goes beyond mere rhetoric. It is a highly technical work which calls for thoroughness and careful planning. Interestingly, that narrative has changed now. Dr. Nnimmo Bassey, a frontline environmental rights activist who led a delegation of members of Oil Watch Africa from about 25 African countries to HYPREP on an assessment visit to some remediation sites in Ogoniland, testified to this truth. He called on Nigerians to support the project. Taking time out to explain how the clean-up process works, the Project Coordinator of HYPREP, Dr. Marvin Barinem Dekil, said the exercise commenced eight years after the report was submitted to the Federal Government by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Dekil said the time between the date of submission in 2011 and 2016 when the clean-up was officially flagged off, necessitated the review and modification of some of the strategies recommended in the report. He stated that the review and modification of some of the strategies did not mean that HYPREP had deviated from the recommendations in the UNEP Report as all such modifications were done with the input of UNEP. In an effort to see things for himself in the cause of inspection of one of the remediation sites, Bassey expressed satisfaction with the progress of works HYPREP was doing and confirmed that remediation had commenced in Ogoniland in earnest. He expressed disappointment that despite several activities going on at various sites across Ogoniland, people were still saying the clean-up had not commenced.  Bassey said he appreciates the anxiety of the people who had expected to see the work move at a very fast pace, but pointed out that the project was a highly technical and complex work that required expertise, experience and a lot of preparations. The rights activist said the visit was also to enable members from other African countries who accompanied him during the visit to learn about the consequences of pollution and how difficult restoration of the environment could be after pollution had occurred.  Bassey said keeping the environment clean was everybody’s business as hydrocarbon pollution affects both the environment and humans and urged all stakeholders to ensure that Ogoniland remains clean after the clean-up. He dispelled speculations that HYPREP funds were being mismanaged, explaining that the structure set up for the management of finances and for appropriating funds for HYPREP project is very well set up. Bassey, a member of the HYPREP Board of Trustees (BoT), stated that people of integrity with very stringent control over finances were on the board of the project, which funds were held by the Ogoni Trust Fund with community people and other stakeholders as signatories to the account and not a kobo could go out without due process. It would be recalled that a self-acclaimed President of the Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People (MOSOP), Fegalo Nsuke, had called on the Federal Government to dissolve the HYPREP Board of Trustees because of alleged misappropriation of $180 million joint venture fund for the clean-up. “They have to account for the money paid by Shell, other oil companies and the Federal Government, which is the first tranche of the $1 billion UNEP recommended for the clean-up. We have not seen anything they have done commensurate to that amount of money. “This is why we are calling for the dissolution of the board of HYPREP. Ogonis are not comfortable with the members. They must account to the people of Ogoni what they have done with their money. The cleanup is a scam,” Fegalo said. But, debunking this position out rightly, Bassey explained that “HYPREP office does not determine which fund is released and which fund is being used.  The strict nature of the control and the milestone set by HYPREP and the whole organizational structure, the BoT, Governing Council and others, is such that any fund to be released must be matched by clear set goals and what it is going to be used for.” He continued: “The clean-up is an excellent avenue to get youths employed to multiply skills that can be extended to other Niger Delta communities by the time the remediation project is expanded. This is an incubation lab. We must do all we can to ensure that this is a success that the environment is restored.” From the international viewpoint, the Netherland Ambassador to Nigeria, Marion Kappeyne Van de Coppello, also expressed satisfaction on the progress of work HYPREP had done in the clean-up. The ambassador said as a stakeholder, she was in HYPREP to have an update on the progress of the clean-up and the challenges the Project Coordination Office (PCO) might be having in executing the project and to physically see the progress of remediation works being carried out on the oil impacted sites. The HYPREP Project Coordinator, Dekil explained to the ambassador that apart from remediation, HYPREP had commenced the implementation of emergency measures by successfully carrying out two medical outreaches in all the four Local Government Areas of Ogoniland aimed at collecting preliminary data for health study where over 20,000 cases were treated and over 400 surgeries were carried out, which was well received by the Ogoni people. Dekil said HYPREP in collaboration with Social Democracy Network (SDN) and International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Onne, had trained Ogoni youths in the fabrication of cassava processing machines while arrangements had been concluded with United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) to train 1,200 Ogoni women in various skills. He informed the ambassador that recently, members of the Governing Council were on a bench-marking study tour to the United Kingdom to expose them to the realities of polluted sites and the clean-up was done over there.  There were plans to train the young Ogoni scientists in the United Kingdom. The Netherland Ambassador who was taken to the remediation site at Lot 2 in Eleme Local Government Area, where work was on-going expressed satisfaction with the level and progress of work on the site and expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for taking a bold step towards the implementation of the UNEP Report. Critics had described the Ogoni clean-up as political bait aimed at attracting votes from the Ogonis in the rerun election of 2016 in Rivers State and wipe up sentiment among Nigerians in the count down to the 2019 general elections. Responding to this, Minister of Environment, Dr. Mohammad Abubakar, reassured the people of Ogoni and indeed the world that President Muhammadu Buhari was committed to the full implementation of the recommendations in the United Nations Environmental Assessment Report on Ogoniland. No room for politics, especially as this had to do with human lives. Abubakar who was on a working visit to HYPREP and some remediation sites across Ogoniland was informed that a total of 21 sites had been handed over to 21 contractors who were currently at different levels of remediation works while a joint team of HYPREP and UN were in the field to carry out reconnaissance in preparation for the commencement of the remediation of the complex sites. The Minister said the Ogoni clean-up was a signature project, the first of its kind in Africa and the world with no existing template, but rather HYPREP was developing one that would be used hereafter for the remediation of the rest of the Niger Delta. “The Federal Government is aware that there are several other challenges you are facing as a result of the pollution.  That is why even though the core mandate of HYPREP is to remediate the land, other programmes have been built into the Project to address some of these challenges.” He urged the people of Ogoni to be patient and ensure sustained peace during and after the project.  “I can say this is a big success for this administration,  the people of Ogoni that I have talked to, the youths, women, elders they are happy with this and happy with Mr. President for keeping his promise to clean up Ogoni. “Let me say that this is something that is serious right from the start where we even have UNEP to do the assessment and follow through to ensure compliance with the recommendations.  This shows the commitment of the government, the commitment of the president and I believe every Nigerian not just the Ogonis should give this project a chance.  From what I have seen, the HYPREP team is doing a good job.” He assured the people that “we are following all the recommendations of UNEP and we all know when you are dealing with UN you must follow everything to the standard. The government has promised to use the UNEP Report to make sure the work is done according to the recommendations.  We are here to support the president’s commitment to the clean-up project, and I urge all of you to throw your weight behind HYPREP so that the dream of the president for a clean and healthy Ogoniland will be realised.” Funding may not be a likely problem for the clean-up project, but that does not totally dismiss the fact that there are no challenges. The President of MOSOP and Governing Council Member of HYPREP, Legborsi Pyagbara expressed worry about such challenges which he said has much more to do with activities of artisanal refining. He said the activities of illegal and artisanal refining pose the greatest threat to the achievement of the hydrocarbon pollution clean-up currently on-going in Ogoniland. “On the issue of illegal bunkering, I think that we must all accept that we have collectively failed as a people. In the UNEP Report, the responsibility is clearly shared. What the Federal Government should do, what the state government should do and what the community should do, and it is very clear in the report. “It clearly says that the community should work to end issues of illegal and artisanal refining.  The question should be, what have we done in our community to stop illegal refining of crude oil? It is not something we should throw back at HYPPREP,” he noted. Pyagbara explained that funds budgeted for alternative livelihood for people engaged in artisanal refining would be duly expended, but that the people carrying out illegal refining must be ready to come out of the business to enable the collection of the required baseline data for the programme. “As a council, we also thought it wise to develop a robust livelihood restoration programme that will involve not only those individuals who are into artisanal refining, but also accommodate youths who do not have anything doing.” On the assessment of HYPREP’s performance in the on-going clean-up, Pyagbara said, despite the initial teething challenges, the process of implementing the clean-up in Ogoniland was on track, adding that the hydrocarbon pollution remediation project in Ogoniland was the first of its kind anywhere in the world, but noted that in spite of this, HYPREP had recorded some remarkable progress within the last few months. The MOSOP President said HYPREP is presently carrying out activities in fulfillment of its mandate.  He said the remediation activities currently taking place on sites in several communities across Ogoniland is a clear testimony to this. Pyagbara said HYPREP has helped to address one of the concerns in Ogoni which has been how to engage the teeming youths with professional qualifications but without jobs.  He disclosed that HYPREP scientists about 21 of whom are from Ogoni are currently undergoing training in Geneva, Switzerland on Contaminated Site Assessment, Clean-Up Assessment, Clean-Up of Contaminated Sites and Field Work Techniques while over 80% of the total workforce in HYPREP are from Ogoni. A deliberate process was put in place by the council to ensure that every contractor employs a certain number of people from Ogoni adding that several youths are already working on all the remediation sites in Ogoniland. He also affirmed council’s approval in the way and manner HYPREP handled the process of preparing the contaminated sites in readiness for tendering by the contractors.  As community representatives, Pyagbara said the delineation of identified contaminated sites into lots to enable more people participate in the clean-up project is a welcome approach. He noted that the implementation of the clean-up process in Ogoniland had taken into consideration community and stakeholder participation without compromising quality and standard.  He further said the composition of the various decision-making bodies for HYPREP as well as the recently inaugurated members of the Central Representatives Advisory Committee (CRAC) who are made up of over 80% of Ogonis also reflects the interest of the community. “This is what I found lacking in the clean-up process in some countries that I have been privileged to visit,” he added. A critical project like the Ogoni clean-up would attract dissenting voices. Some might not necessarily be positive as some right activists might not be too comfortable with the level of work done by HYPREP. Dr. Godwin Ojo, Executive Director, Environmental Rights Action and Friends of the Earth (ERA/FoE), said he was not too comfortable with the pace of work done so far by HYPREP. Accordingly, he alleged that the agency lacked the capacity to carry out the project as recommended by UNEP. “HYPREP lacks the institutional capacity to carry out the cleanup project. It also lacks the capacity to spend. HYPREP was given $180 million since 2018 and it is still struggling to spend that amount. We are in 2019 getting to 2020. By 2020, HYPREP supposed to have collected $600 million out of the $1 billion billed for the cleanup exercise,” he said. Ojo went further to say that his NGO had been engaging in intensive research since February to get the key performance index (KPI) that would be of immense help to HYPREP, adding that with the start of the raining season, it would be difficult for the cleanup exercise to take the kind of speed it is required to take. “I am not satisfied with the level of work done by HYPREP,” he said. But, Celestine Akpobari, a human rights activist disagreed with this point, saying that though the “clean-up may be slow, HYPREP is being very meticulous.” Akpobari said that to implement the UNEP report is not the same thing as what is on the paper. “This is the first time this kind of project is being done in Africa. We need to be very careful about it. So far, I am okay with what HYPREP has done since the commencement of the project.”