ADO-EKITI – Barely two weeks to the conduct of local government elections in Ekiti State, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has described moves by the state Independent Electoral Commission (EKSIEC) to allow other means of identification aside voters’ cards as unacceptable. The PDP’s Publicity Secretary, Jackson Adebayo, in a statement made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti at the weekend, said the move was a grand plan by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to undermine the electoral process. The EKSIEC, in a statewide broadcast, said it would allow voters without voter’s card but other valid means of identification to exercise their franchise in the council poll. Adebayo further alleged that the move was a panic measure by the APC having realised that the election would not be business as usual. “Any guideline  or ‘law’ made by the state government through State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC) that runs contrary to the Electoral Act and Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria will be vehemently resisted by the party and rejected by the people,” the statement  reads in part. “It is condemnable for the electoral body to assert that those without voter’s card can use driver’s license or national ID card as an alternative, asking for where is it provided for in the Electoral Act and the country’s constitution?” The party added that most of the guidelines laid down by the Ekiti SIEC are not acceptable to law, an observation which the party has raised in the past and under no circumstances would the party accept liability for the breach of these obnoxious outlaw guidelines. PDP explained that the governor and his SIEC should do Ekiti good if he could just accept the fact that the state belongs to all but not only his party, APC, where its own constitution can be twisted to fit into some people’s desires. According to the party, there is no ambiguity in local government election as the government wants to be presenting it now. Hence, it is advisable for the SIEC to follow only what is obtainable in the general elections rather than taking some illegitimate short-cut to bar other parties’ candidates from contesting in the election. The party’s spokesman noted that that the idea of using other ID cards rather than voter’s card is a deliberate arrangement to rig the forthcoming local government election, which would not be acceptable under any guise. “The position of the law is that voters would come for accreditation with their voter’s card and proceed to cast their vote, anything aside from this is a laughable abracadabra that is neither acceptable to the PDP or the people of Ekiti State.”