The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) yesterday commended the unparalleled contributions of Dangote Industries to the growth and development of the Nigerian economy. Mr. Babatunde Paul Ruwase, President of the LCCI, who made the declarations during Dangote Day at the on-going Lagos International Trade Fair in Lagos, said the Dangote Group has added a lot of value to the growth of the Nigerian economy, pointing out that if Nigeria would have fared better if the country could have two Dangote group. He specifically commended the company’s investment in Refinery, Fertilizer, Cement, Flour and every sector and still expanding and going strong. He described the Dangote brand as a critical enabler to provide locally made goods for Nigerians and the African Continent. “The Dangote Group is a Nigerian company managed by Aliko Dangote. We are very proud of this company, which is people oriented”, he said Ruwase said that the activities of the Dangote Group show high degree of vision, creative thinking, research, innovation, hard work and industry, which he added, have culminated into what one can describe as the Dangote business and industrial empire today. Giving his remarks at the event, the Group Managing Director, Olakunle Alake, who spoke through the company’s Director, Supply Chain, Dangote Cement, Knut Ulvmoen, said that the group would continue to invest in the Nigeria’s economy. Alake, said that the company’s investment drive is being made manifest by the construction of the 650,000 barrels per day Dangote refinery, a fertilizer plant, rice, and cement noting that the refinery would be Africa’s biggest and the world’s biggest single-train facility, upon completion. He said the refinery has been designed to process a variety of light and medium grades of crude to produce Euro-V quality clean fuels including gasoline and diesel as well as jet fuel and polypropylene. Alake described the Dangote fertilizer project as the largest granulated Urea fertilizer complex to emerge in the entire fertilizer industry history in the world, with its three million tons per annum capacity. On the Group’s cement business, he puts the total capacity of cement production from the company’s plant across Africa at about 46 million tonnes per annum. He noted that the group is determined to move Nigeria from an import dependent country to export dependent country adding that the company is seriously investing in rice industry.