The Eighth Southern Sun Ikoyi Golf Tournament closed over the weekend on the luxurious course of the Lakowe Lakes and Golf Resorts with both local and foreign golfers competing for honours and pride. As the event came to a close, guests and participants were gifted with various special packages including weekend stays and complementary dining opportunities at Southern Sun Ikoyi, Cases of premium wines, business and economy class tickets to various international travel destinations and prepaid routers and Mifis, courtesy of telecoms firm Globacom, who was one of the major sponsors. Globacom doled out a total of 25 Routers and Mifi modems to winners at the tournament. Thrilled by the open show of excitement by their guests and golf lovers at the end of the competition, Globacom’s Head of Enterprise Corporate, Lagos, Mr. Abiodun Sanni, told journalists that the outcome of the event justified the company’s decision to partner with Southern Sun Ikoyi. Adewemimo Sumonu won the men’s category, while Funke Majekodunmi came tops in the ladies’ category in a Stableford styled tournament which kept the fans cheering as the golfers displayed spectacular show of competitiveness and sportsmanship throughout the tournament. The field had about 70 male and female golfers competing for glory. According to Sanni, “I’m sure that the winners of the routers and Mifi model will put them into good use and also appreciate us for the gesture. Today, we presented 25 routers with one month 15GB data. The Mifi routers also have 4.5GB data on them.” He said Globacom has contributed to sports, entertainment and education in the past years and will continue to give back and support Nigerians in other areas of endeavours. He promised that Globacom would look for ways to make the next edition more exciting for players and golf fans. Earlier, the General Manager, Southern Sun, Mark Loxley commended the golfers, sponsors, guests and the media for taking out time to participate at this year’s edition of the tournament despite the long drive and their busy schedules, whilst reiterating the hotel’s continued commitment to promoting golf as a sporting activity within Lagos’s thriving business community.