Abuja – There were indications on Wednesday that the upper chamber of the National Assembly may kill the Bill proposing death by hanging or life jail term for promoters of hate speech.
Recall that on Tuesday ‘A Bill for an Act to Provide for the Prohibition of Hate Speeches and for other Related Matters’, sponsored by Aliu Sabi Abdullahi passed first reading.
Fielding questions from newsmen, the spokesman of the Senate, Godiya Akwashiki, said the Bill would be subjected to debate, adding that it might be killed if the lawmakers discovered it would create hardship for the people.
He said: “A Bill is just a process, it will be subjected to debate by lawmakers. If the Bill will create hardship, it will be killed on the floor of the Senate.
“I appeal for patience and when the Bill comes for second reading, we will know the direction, whether the bill will be passed or not.”
Earlier, during the plenary, the Senate summoned the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Hameed Ali, to explain other ways of addressing border issues without placing ban on the supply of petroleum products to border communities.
The move to summon the Customs boss followed a motion titled, ‘The Need to Revisit the Suspension Order Placed on the Supply of Petroleum Products to Border Towns by the Comptroller General of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS)”, sponsored by Odebiyi Tolulope Akinremi (Ogun West).
After much debate on the motion, the lawmakers resolved to “call on the Comptroller General of Customs to urgently explore the use of modern technological devices in the tracking, management, and scheduling of petroleum trucks that undertake business along the border towns”.
Meanwhile, the Senate has called for stiffer penalties for child traffickers and also called on state governments to take proactive measures to protect children from trafficking.
The upper chamber of the National Assembly also mandated its committees on Women Affairs and Youth Development as well as that of Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters to conduct an investigative hearing on child trafficking in the country with a view to proffering solutions, and to submit their report within two weeks. Senate Re-Introduces Bill To Establish South East Commission
The Senate on Wednesday at plenary re-introduced a bill seeking to establish the South East Development Commission (SEDC).
The bill, which scaled first reading on the floor, was passed by the 8th Senate but failed to receive presidential assent.
Clause 15 (2a) of the bill which identifies source of funding for the commission, stipulates that the equivalent of 10 percent of the total monthly statutory allocation due to the member states of the commission shall be from the federation account.
The bill sponsored by Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra) also seeks the establishment of a governing board for the commission which shall include one person for the other geopolitical zones in the country. Senate Approves N10.69bn For Kogi, PDP Caucus Kicks
Meanwhile, the Senate on Wednesday approved a promissory note issuance in the sum of N10.69 billion for Kogi State government for projects executed on behalf of the Federal Government.
The approval was sequel to the presentation and consideration of a report by the Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts.
However, the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) caucus in the upper legislative chamber kicked against approving the promissory note few days to the gubernatorial election in the state.
Recall that President Buhari, in a letter written two weeks ago to the Senate, had requested an approval for the refund to be made to the Kogi State government.
Chairman of the Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts, Senator Clifford Ordia, said “the approved sum is in capital expenditure which has to do with refund to the state government for monies spent in the execution of Federal Government projects in the state”.
According to the lawmaker, key officials of the state government were invited to brief the committee in the course of its legislative work.
Ordia further disclosed that the committee also assessed all submissions made by the Federal Ministry of Finance, alongside documents from the Bureau of Public Procurement and the Kogi State government.
The committee, in its report, stated that it undertook an oversight visit to Kogi State to assess the projects and maintained that the said projects met the required standard by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing.
The projects inspected by the committee are the reconstruction of Shintaku-Odugbo road, reconstruction of Ganaja-Ajaokuta road, reconstruction of Idah-Onyedega road, and dualisation of Lokoja-Ganaja road.
Other executed federal projects are the reconstruction of three-span bridge along Shintaku-Odugbo road, reconstruction of four-span bridge along Shintaku-Odugbo road, and reconstruction of Iyamoje-Igagun-Ifeolu-Kptun-Ponyan-Jegede road.
The committee, in its findings, stated that “inspections were carried out by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing,” adding that Kogi State had completed all the said projects and paid all contractors that executed them.
Senator Jibrin Barau (APC, Kano North), while commending the governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, said: “Kogi has done very well. This should be approved so as to show other governments to take a cue.”
Coming under a point of order, the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, however, argued that the Senate’s approval be delayed until after the Kogi governorship election scheduled to hold this weekend.
He said: “States that have done the work of the Federal Government should be paid.
“I agree they should be paid, what I don’t want is misuse of this funds. I have the mandate of the minority to say this can wait until next week. Let us delay for only one week, after elections then they can be paid.”
The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, in a counter argument, explained that Kogi State was entitled to be paid all monies spent on the execution of Federal Government projects in the state.
According to Lawan, Kogi State was denied an approval for refund while 24 state governments received an approval under the eight Senate.
“Kogi State applied for this refund in the last Senate. All the states that applied were approved here by the last Senate.
“Now, as the ninth Senate, we have seen the necessity and are doing justice. We have done justice to others, and we have to do justice to Kogi State. When it is done is not the matter.”
But Sen. Uche Ekwenife (PDP Anambra), in a point of order, said it was important that he that “seeks equity must do equity’’.
Ekwunife said states like Enugu, Anambra, and Imo were yet to be refunded monies spent on execution of Federal Government projects in their states.
However, she was advised by the Senate President that states who were yet to be refunded should apply properly via the right channel, and that was the Federal Government.
The Senate eventually approved President Buhari’s request for a refund to Kogi State government after a voice vote called by the Senate President.