ABAKALIKI – The Federal Government has revealed its commitment to the development of salt deposits in Ebonyi State for the growth of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah, disclosed this during a courtesy call on Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State. Speaking during his visit, Ogah who inspected salt lakes in the state described Ebonyi State as one of the forerunners in terms of solid mineral with great potentials which the federal government could use to diversify the nation’s economy. Ogah also disclosed that there is a federal government project called Presidential Initiative on Development of Salts (PIDS), adding that consultants have been brought into Ebonyi State to look at how salts can be developed, describing the (PIDS), as the first in the history of the country. “We are here to seek collaboration with the governor in terms of optimisation of our revenue, working closely with the state government to see how we can increase the revenue of the federal government through royalty. “Ebonyi being one of the forerunners in terms of solid mineral, we believed that there are great potentials that abound in this state and we can benefit in line with the presidential objective of our President in diversifying the economy of the nation by using Agriculture and Mining as a key industry for diversification of the sector for the growth of our GDP and job creation for the teeming Nigerians. “There is a federal government project which is called (PIDS), in Ebonyi state which we have brought consultants  to look at how they can develop  the salt project which is the first in the history of this country coming to the southeast and driven by  the  Ebonyi state Governor.” Plateau Guber: Appeal Court Upholds Lalong’s Re-Election, Dismisses Useni’s Petition The Court of Appeal in Jos on Friday affirmed the reelection of Simon Lalong of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as Governor of Plateau State. In a unanimous decision read by Justice O.A. Otisi, the court dismissed the appeal by Jeremiah Useni of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and upheld the judgment of the Plateau State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal which had validated Mr Lalong’s victory in the March governorship election. The appellate court also held that Mr Lalong has the educational qualification to contest in the election. Mr Useni, a former senator, had challenged the declaration of Mr Lalong as the winner of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) The PDP candidate had in his petition alleged that the election was not conducted in compliance with the Electoral Act and was also marred by corrupt practices. He also averred that Mr Lalong lied on oath while submitting his form CF001 to INEC. The Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal and awarded the sum of N200,000 as cost to be paid to the respondents. In his reaction to the judgment, Mr Lalong said his victory at the court was a validation of the will of the people. Mr Lalong, in a statement on Friday by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Simon Macham, said that the affirmation of his victory was yet another collective victory for the entire people of the state. The governor said that he was not surprised by the court verdict as he never doubted the validity of the people’s mandate reposed in him and the All Progressives Congress (APC). “This is not a victory for me but for the entire people of Plateau who have demonstrated faith in our rescue mission. “Like I have repeatedly said, I am governor for everyone irrespective of party, tribe, religious or any other affiliations,” he said. He stated that he was ready to carry everyone in the state along. Mr Lalong called on the opposition PDP and Mr Useni to join hands with him in moving the state forward. The governor appealed to the people to continue to support his administration towards leaving a lasting legacy in the state.