LAGOS – Residents of Isheri North Residential Scheme along Lagos-Ibadan expressway have continued to count their losses as a result of the flood that engulfed the area last month owing to the release of water from the Oyan Dam by the management of Ogun-Oshun River Basin Development Authority (OORBDA). The residents in a letter to the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, dated October 24, lamented that they have been “deeply devastated, distressed and virtually comatose from the latest bashing we are currently receiving from the perennial annual flooding of our estate.” “This 2019 version is the worst ever and we have been knocked down, flat on our backs. Hundreds of families have been displaced and brutally traumatised. No help or succour from anywhere. We are on our own.” They also claimed that one of the occupants of the estate, Manny Philipson, a public relations practitioner, lost his life recently because he could not be evacuated to a hospital on time due to the vehicle breaking down in the high volume of water. Management of OORBDA, had in a public statement, dated October 21, 2019 and signed by its Managing Director /CEO, Mr. Olufemi Olayemi Odumosu, alleged that, “There are many tributaries that flow into Ogun River. Therefore, water from Oyan River, into which the water released from Oyan Dam flows, from is only a small fractions of the Aggregate Rain Water flowing into the Ogun River from these tributaries include: River Ewekoro, Opeji River, Eredu River, Iwofin River, River Ore at Oba, River Afojupa, River Orogbo, Sokori River, Owiwi River and Abijire River, among others. “Unfortunately, the flood plains identified above have continuously been taken over by property developers who built residential estates indiscriminately and recklessly in the areas either out of ignorance or sheer underestimation of the devastating effects of flooding, thereby causing obstruction to the natural free flow pathways of water. “In fact, some of projects coverage areas being used for wetlands agricultural development have been encroached upon by the menace of land grabbers at Owiwi, Oyan Dam, Itoikin, Igan Alade, and Middle Ogun Projects.” In reaction to the claim by the MD/CEO of OORBDA that the flood plains have continuously been taken over by property developers who built residential estates indiscriminately, residents of the area denied the allegation, saying that the management has refused to comply with releasing the water from the dam at the stipulated period of November to July every year as contained in a communiqué issued in 2017. Mr. Abayomi Akinde, Chairman, Riverview Estate Residents and Stakeholders’ Association, at a press conference in Lagos on Tuesday, maintained that all the allegations against the communities by the management of OORBDA were untrue. Akinde, who said occupants of the said flood plains obtained legal permission from the government to build in the area, also called out governments of Lagos and Ogun states and OORBDA to back down their “land grabbers” tag ascribed to residents of the areas that have been grappling with flood menace over the past weeks. The residents also alleged that the management of OORBDA had turned the Oyan Dami into a fish pond, which has led to flooding in the area. This, according to the residents, is the major reason why the management has refused to comply with releasing the water from the dam at the stipulated period of November to July every year as contained in a communiqué issued in 2017. They explained that due to the illegal fish ponds being operated within the dam area, water that is supposed to be released during the dry season are not allowed to flow away by the pond operators so as to preserve the fishes. Akinde explained that the Lagos State government, in May 2017, organised a summit to address the negative impacts of flooding of Ogun River on adjoining towns and villages in Lagos. According to him, after the summit, a communiqué was issued where it was stated that OORBDA should strive to exploit the best practice in the monitoring of Oyan Dam to stem the tide of flooding in the affected communities in Lagos State. He said, “The communities living along the Rivers Ogun in Lagos and Ogun States have engaged with the Ogun-Oshun River Basin Development Authority (OORBDA), in order to ensure that these communities are not flooded each year in the later part of the rainy season. “One significant engagement, a two-day Stakeholders Summit, was organised by the Lagos State Government on May 15 and 16, 2017. The Summit addressed the subject of the negative impacts of flooding of Ogun River on adjoining towns, and villages in Lagos State. “In all, over 140 persons participated in the summit comprising top government functionaries, members of the academia, organised private sector, media, national and international experts in meteorology, NGOs and environmentalists. “The communiqué issued at the conclusion of the summit stated amongst other things that the OORBDA should strive to exploit to the best practice in the monitoring of Oyan Dam to stem the tide of flooding in the affected communities in Lagos State as enjoyed in the 1990s. Essentially, data was presented at the summit to show that in the 1990s, the OORBDA released water from the Oyan Dam reservoir in November, December, January, February, March, April, May, June and July and there was no water release during August, September and October. “The OORBDA has ignored this recommendation and there was flooding in 2018 in the communities along the River Ogun and in 2019 a greater than the previous year is under flood waters. “The late Chief S.O Fadahunsi in his book, ‘Reflections on the events of my life’ at pages 180 and 181, indicated that the initial design of Oyan Dam was to store water for supply to Abeokuta township and to the Lagos State Water Corporation and that the dam’s height was subsequently increased to its present 30.4m first to accommodate water for irrigation and next for incorporation of turbines for 9MW power generation. As it happens, Chief S.O. Fadahunsi’s son, Engr. Tolu Fadahunsi held the position of MD at OORBDA in the 2000s at which time the communities remained flood free. So there are people available who can testify that the Oyan Dam reservoir can be operated without causing flood in Lagos and Ogun States,” said Akinde. Odumosu, the OORBDA, had also claimed in his statement that, “It is pertinent to note that the dam and reservoir operations of the Oyan Dam project is being carried out by the OORBDA, in line with scientific and technical standards of international best practices, keeping in mind the urgent need for the safety of lives and property both upstream and downstream without compromising the integrity and structural stability of the Dam.” But the residents asked the management of OORBDA to inform the public how many surface water engineers it has in its employ that manage water release in line with scientific and technical standards of international best practices. “The idea of a flood plain of a river is the area that would be covered by water in and near the channel of the river as observed over a period of 100 years. We expect that over such a period of 100 years, there would be variation in rainfall from one year to the next such that during one of those 100 years, we would have experienced the maximum possible rainfall in the region associated with the river. In the case of the River Ogun system, if the Ikere Gorge Dam and the Oyan Dam were not built on the River Ogun and River Oyan respectively, flood would occur in the Lagos flood plains at intervals of between 10 and 25 years. “How does one explain then that with the construction of the two dams, people in the area are worse off as floods now occur every year? With the construction of the dams, floods should no longer occur in the Lagos flood plains if both dams are operated in accordance with their designs. “One would notice that the public statement of OORBDA fails to mention that power generation is one of the attributes of the installations at Oyam Dam. At the time the dam was commissioned by President Shehu Shagari in 1983, three turbines each rated 3MW of power “What then is the design at Oyan Dam and why do we have such extensive floods? One would notice that the public statement OORBDA fails to mention that power generation is one of the attributes of the installations at Oyan Dam. At the time the dam was commissioned by President Shagari in 1983, three turbines each rated at 3MWof power for a total of 9MW of power were installed in the dam. These turbines have not been used since that time. “If the turbines were in use, they would require about 2 million cubic meters and one can easily see that if there is no water coming into the reservoir, the reservoir would empty in about 130 days. The total average run-off from the catchment area is estimated at 822.2 million cubic meters per day from this we can see that the reservoir would not fill up and releases of huge volumes of water would not be necessary. “The OORBDA has refused to release water in November to July as per the communiqué of May 2017 because the OORBDA is operating the reservoir as a fish pond, which generates huge profit for the organisation. “We pray that the OORBDA is made to follow the path of rectitude and that water releases from Oyan Dam reservoir would be from November through to July such that the reservoir is almost empty in July and the reservoir is filled up in August, September and October for flood-free experience along the River Ogun. Also speaking with journalists at the press conference, Chairperson, Isheri North GRA, Mrs. Funmilola Bisiriyu, disclosed that, “More than 500 families have been displaced in the area. We don’t have potable water. We buy water. There are no roads in the estate. We bought our transformers, yet we pay tax and pay land use charge.” Some of the residents who spoke with Sunday INDEPENDENT accused the Ogun State government of neglecting the whole area. A resident who simply identified himself as Chuks said, “Since 2015 that I have been living here, we have been experiencing the flood every year, but this one is the worst. My car got spoilt in my premises. There is nothing like drainage in these communities. There is no government presence here. Everything you see in these communities is self-effort.” Another resident of the area, Adetayo Adeyemi, described the situation as “barbaric”, just as he urged the government to declare a state of emergency in the communities. “That is what we expect the government to do. The landowners should control the land sale to the people and the people here should be evacuated for proper planning of the whole area,” he said. Some of them maintained that OORBDA is deliberately keeping the water above the stipulated time of release due to gains the management is making from using the facility as a fish pond. “The interest of the fishing companies is paramount to them. They deliberately withhold the water instead of releasing it bit by bit, especially during the dry season. Their thought was that if there is no much rain; the water would be released to ease pressure on the fish farmers along the path. Unfortunately, we are having unexpected rainfall and the dam is filled beyond their expectation, they then decided to release a whole lot of water. The result is what you are witnessing,” a resident alleged. When contacted, Odumosu, the OORBDA MD/CEO, told Sunday INDEPENDENT that, “It is not possible to operate a fish pond in a dam. The purpose of constructing a dam is for water supply for domestic use, flood control, irrigation, navigation, sedimentation control, and hydropower and aquaculture. “The potential aftermath of global climate change, which has resulted into exceptionally high and prolonged rainfall experienced nationwide this year, as earlier predicted by NIMET. The subsequent effect is a rise in the Atlantic Ocean level forcing Lagos lagoon water level to rise and spread into the flood prone area of Ogun River. “If the residents are saying there was a communiqué and along the line, the tide changed, who do we blame for that, are they going to teach us how to do our job? The only way out is for them to put pressure on the Lagos and Ogun State governments to put solid drainage systems right from Ogun to Lagos. Also, the Director of Services, OORBDA, Femi Dokunmu, who agreed that there was a stakeholders’ summit, added that it was better “to look at the issue than shift blame. The question is if the people do not see the dam as a means to hold some water back, do they want us to empty our reservoir? People want us to help them keep some water upstream. Even if we empty that reservoir in the dry season, the rainfall this year would still have gone above the capacity of the reservoir and we would still have allowed the water downstream.” On his part, OORBDA Public Relations Officer, Saliu Adeniyi, said, “We released water three years ago and last year, but there was no flooding. But this year, there was a warning that there would be more rainfall. Even at that, we have been releasing water since May this year when there was no rain to create vacuum in the reservoir. “The cause of the flooding this year is just the increase in rainfall as predicted. It is not that OORBDA is causing the flood. The ocean is full and the Lagos State government has confirmed that. My Managing Director has addressed the issue severally. The residents of the communities have bought land and built on the flood plain, which is the main cause. Those places they built houses on are not supposed to be where they should have built on,” Adeniyi added.