Today, Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Olusegun Odumosu, will take over the mantle of leadership of police affairs in Lagos State. The Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Abubakar Adamu had ordered the posting of CP Odumosu to Lagos as Commissioner of Police. A signal dated November 14, 2019 signed by the Force Secretary had directed Odumosu to take over from AIG Zubairu Muazu, who has also been recently promoted from Commissioner of Police to Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) and posted to the Force Headquarters Abuja as AIG in charge of Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU). CP Hakeem Odumosu holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in English Language from Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Bachelor of Law degree and Master Degree in Peace Studies and Conflict Resolution from the National Open University of Nigeria. He also holds a Masters Degree in Public Administration from Lagos State University. Others include: Post Graduate Diploma in Security Management and Operations, Advanced Diploma in Law Enforcement Administration, and Higher Diploma in Terrorism Studies from University of Lagos; and Post Graduate Diploma in Public Relations and Marketing from Nigeria Institute of Journalism. CP Odumosu was enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force on March 3, 1990 as cadet ASP and rose through the ranks. It is worthy of note that, CP Odumosu has a vast experience in operations, investigations and administration. He started his policing career as Operations Officer in Isokoko, Ketu and Satellite Divisions as well as Area D Command, Mushin, Lagos. He was the Chairman, Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental and Special Offences, Governor’s Office,Alausa, Ikeja. He equally served as the Officer in Charge, Pensions Office in Edo and Ogun States. He was in charge of Research and Planning Department,Kaduna State Command. CP Odumosu was one time Commander, Rapid Response Squad,(RRS) Lagos State Command and Area Commander, Akwanga, Nasarawa State. He was Assistant Commissioner of Police Operations, Western Ports Authority Command, Lagos and Area Commander, Agodi Area Command, Oyo State. He was Deputy Commissioner of Police Operations (FEDOPS), and Deputy Commissioner of Police Administration, Department of Operations, Force Headquarters Abuja. He was Commissioner of Police, Department of Research and Planning and Commissioner of Police (Inspectorate), Department of Training and Development, Force Headquarters Abuja. He served as the Commissioner of Police, Edo State and later Commissioner of Police, Finance and Administration, Department of Operations, Force Headquarters Abuja. He was a member and Head of Enforcement Unit of the Presidential Taskforce on the Restoration of Law and Order on Apapa gridlock, Lagos. He belongs to various Professional Bodies. He is a Fellow, Institute of Corporate Administration and a Fellow of International Institute of Professional Security. He is an active member of International Association of Chiefs of Police and a member of Institute of Public Administration of Nigeria. He is a multiple awards winner. CP Odumosu is very much familiar with Lagos terrain and there is no doubt, he will bring his wealth of experience to bear in piloting the affairs of the Command.