Comrade Ezekiel Daniel, former Spokesperson of the Ijaw Peoples Development Initiative (IPDI), and a veteran Niger Delta activist, is the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Security. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) recently ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari, among other issues. Excerpt: The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) operations are said to be adversely hindered by high level corruption in the agency. How do you see the recent forensic audit of the agency which was ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari? The forensic audit ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari is a welcome development. It is so unfortunate that the titanic sacrifices of High Chief Government Ekemupolo, popularly known as Tompolo, and several of our youths who died in the struggle that gave birth to the NDDC is being abused by politicians that know nothing about how that intervention agency came about. I strongly believe that this probe will unravels a lot of fraud and bring sanity that will refocus it back into the primary reason NDDC was established. How do you see the situation where the president forwarded list of the new NDDC Board to the Senate for clearance and the Minister of the Niger Delta appointed an Interim Management Board of the same agency few hours after? This contradiction only shows one thing, there is disconnect among various government organs at the centre. It equally baffles me how Mr. President will be saying A and his employee, Senator Godswill Akpabio, will be saying another thing. Is the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs telling Nigerians that he is the boss? This is a sad development. With the recent killing and clash involving Ogbe-Ejoh and Aladja communities in Delta State, what has been done to ensure that peace is returned to the troubled area? First and foremost, Ogbe-Ijoh and Aladja people must realise that outsiders cannot bring them the desire peace, until they on their own part allow peace to reign by embracing each other genuinely. My boss, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, is not just a listening governor, but someone who loves peace. This is because he knows that the much sought -after development cannot come in the midst of crises. This is the reason everything is being done to make sure that lasting peace finds root among the two communities. You recently called on multinationals to help empower Niger Delta youths. What really moved you to make the call? Yes, I made the call for multinational companies to do more in the area of empowerment. Let me tell you something. Today, the key to ending crisis and other social vices in society is getting the youths busy. How can this be done? It is through youth empowerment. As a youth activist of several years, I know from my experience of interacting with youths from various backgrounds that the main reason there is so much restiveness in the country today, especially in Niger Delta region, is due to joblessness. If the multinational companies focus more of their attention on this, it will be a win-win for all. Would you say the Niger Delta states are doing enough to empower youths in the region? Honestly speaking, I cannot speak for other states in the region. But, I can confidentially tell you that His Excellency, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa administration has done extremely well in this regard and is ready to do more through various schemes that are now putting food on their tables, thereby taking them out of the streets. To what extent is Governor Ifeanyi Okowa succeeding in the implementation of his SMART Agenda? The Smart Agenda of His Excellency, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa has become a source of income to thousands of youths across the state. These youths, who would have being a threat to the peace of the state, through the empowerment schemes that the Smart Agenda brought, there has been no problem. His second coming shall be a consolidation on the first term, which was a success to all. His government’s SMART Agenda shall focus once again on road construction and rehabilitation like the one he is doing on Sapele –Warri road, which belongs to Federal Government. He will also focus on youth and women empowerment. In short, everything that constitutes good governance is what Deltans should expect in this second term of the governor. To what extent has the Federal Government been able to implement the 16-Point Agenda, the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) presented to the President Muhammadu Buhari administration since its first term? It is so unfortunate that Federal Government has become a Messi, dribbling our people around. Is the Federal Government saying that they only listen and act when violence arises? As I am talking to you, none of the 16-Point Agenda raised by PANDEF has been addressed by Federal Government. Take a look at the relocation of the headquarters of multi-national oil companies, which is a key demand of PANDEF. Up to this point, none of them has relocated despite the atmosphere of peace now everywhere in the state. We all know the kind of taxes and job opportunities these companies pay and give to Lagos State. The implementation of this demand would go a long way to put food on the tables of our teeming youths should the oil companies operate here. The taxes they would have been paying would have helped a lot to assist the Delta State government to do more in terms of providing infrastructure for our people. I want to urge Mr. President to do the needful by giving a marching order for these companies to relocate to their operational bases in the Niger Delta. How do you see the plans by the Federal Government to increase VAT to seven and half per cent and return toll gates to the federal roads? My submission as regards this subject matter is that the Federal Government should reconsider its position because things are rough with majority of Nigerians. My boss, His Excellency, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa gave a position on toll gates issue few months ago. On this I stand.