LAGOS – The Federal Government has been urged to adopt a ‘no going back’ policy on the land border closure to fully achieve its benefits. Mallam Ibrahim Issa, National Coordinator, Social Integrity Network (SINET), made the call in a statement on Wednesday. The group condemned some proponents of border re-opening, stressing that “the unity, growth and development of Nigeria remain sacrosanct beyond any individual gains aimed at subjecting us to slavery and perpetually underdeveloped. “The gains of the policy are numerous to mention but specifically, its impact on the socio-economic and security is unprecedented and manufacturers are now able to sell out the huge goods deposits in their warehouses.” The group also commended the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) under the leadership of Godwin Emefiele, for taking strong stance on the need to sustain the ongoing land border policy aimed at repositioning the nation’s economy. “We are happy to watch the CBN governor live on Tuesday during the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting held in Abuja. “As a group representing over 700,000 Nigerians, who are majorly employees in the public and private sectors respectively, the position of Mr. Emefiele is in continuation of our age-long plight and campaign against smuggling and importation of substandard commodities into on country. “We are in total support of the position of all the stakeholders and investors who supported that the border closure should continue. They have demonstrated high degrees of trust and love for Nigeria as a nation and by extension to the entire citizenry who are victims of the insurgency especially in the northeast.” “Also, more jobs would be created, collapsed industries are in the revival process while many new industries would spring up. “As the giant of Africa, it is an absurd for developed nations to build warehouses in our neighboring countries and paying them heavily for goods to be dumped therein and smuggled into our country with little or no returns to our nation. They are killing us and we are smiling, they are mortgaging the future of our generations yet unborn. “If Malaysia and other emerging nations can make it, who says we cannot make it with consistency and sense of direction by our leaders? “The CBN governor, an astute financial expert has spoken and there is need to tour the path of national interest rather than playing the cards of some individuals who are the major beneficiaries of abnormality affecting our nation. “Not only that, the Minister for Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in company of some ministers and heads of agencies visited the Seme Border and also scored the border closure policy high.”