ABUJA – Governors’ Forum and the office of Vice President Professor Yemi Oshinbanjo have commenced a Human Capital Development plan that’s intended to move 24 million Nigerians out of poverty before 2030. The plan jointly embarked upon by the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and the office of Vice President Professor Yemi Oshinbanjo commenced on Monday in Kaduna and culminated in Ado Ekiti in the South western part of the country. Led by Yosola Akinbi of the office of the Vice President of Nigeria, the Core Working Group, CWG, commenced its sensitisation tour of the country in Kaduna where it met with Governor Nasiru el Rufai and Sagir Ahmed the States HCD Focal Person. The overall vision of the HCD is concentrated in three thematic areas which are Education, Public health and nutrition and the workforce. Yosola Akinbi told the governor of Kaduna State that when compared to the rest of the world, Nigeria is rated very low and that instead of playing the ostrich and living in denial, it is better for the country to rise to the occasion and confront the problem head-on. In his interaction with the CWG, Governor el Rufai reeled out a number of gains in his HCD strides which include the establishment of an ICT innovation Hub, Click Kaduna, where young unemployed people and even sit-at-home mums are finding gainful employment and making money, some in hard currency. In outlining the overall vision of the state in the HCD project, Governor El Rufai disclosed that he has established five Policy Councils that meet between 8am and 10am every working day and forward their resolutions which serve as the development compass of the state. These Policy Councils cover the critical areas of governance like Procurement Council, Infrastructure Council, Economic Development Council and Institutional Development Council and HCD. They are all headed by very senior members of his cabinet. The effect of these Councils is that they have brought pragmatism and expertise into governance and made my job easier because now I can sit back and only assent to their resolutions or reject same, El Rufai stressed. Governors’ Forum and the office of Vice President Professor Yemi Oshinbanjo have commenced a Human Capital Development plan that’s intended to move 24 million Nigerians out of poverty before 2030. The plan jointly embarked upon by the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and the office of Vice President Professor Yemi Oshinbanjo commenced on Monday in Kaduna and culminated in Ado Ekiti in the South western part of the country. Led by Yosola Akinbi of the office of the Vice President of Nigeria, the Core Working Group, CWG, commenced its sensitisation tour of the country in Kaduna where it met with Governor Nasiru el Rufai and Sagir Ahmed the States HCD Focal Person. The overall vision of the HCD is concentrated in three thematic areas which are Education, Public health and nutrition and the workforce. Yosola Akinbi told the governor of Kaduna State that when compared to the rest of the world, Nigeria is rated very low and that instead of playing the ostrich and living in denial, it is better for the country to rise to the occasion and confront the problem head-on. In his interaction with the CWG, Governor el Rufai reeled out a number of gains in his HCD strides which include the establishment of an ICT innovation Hub, Click Kaduna, where young unemployed people and even sit-at-home mums are finding gainful employment and making money, some in hard currency. In outlining the overall vision of the state in the HCD project, Governor El Rufai disclosed that he has established five Policy Councils that meet between 8am and 10am every working day and forward their resolutions which serve as the development compass of the state. These Policy Councils cover the critical areas of governance like Procurement Council, Infrastructure Council, Economic Development Council and Institutional Development Council and HCD. They are all headed by very senior members of his cabinet. The effect of these Councils is that they have brought pragmatism and expertise into governance and made my job easier because now I can sit back and only assent to their resolutions or reject same, El Rufai stressed.