AKURE – In the recent time, the Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, was in the storm of controversies in respect of his state of health. There were rumours that he had critical health challenges. But, when the governor arrived Akure, the state penultimate Friday, he admitted he had medical checkup and was subsequently advised by his medical doctor not to engage in strenuous activities for a while. This he said was responsible for his absence from the state for almost two consecutive months. Although, he said that he went on vacation within the period as well. On his arrival at the Akure Airport, the governor told journalists that ”Yes, I needed to seek medical attention. It was nothing as serious as overblown because it is routine. But on my return, I needed to take some time off to strengthen the attention based on advice. It wasn’t as serious as people blew it. “But, basically, my stay back in Abuja was indeed not a serious period to even rest because I had to attend to a lot of issues that will move the state forward. You are aware that I attended the Governors Forum meeting as well as the National Economic Council meeting and several others. “Of a particular note was the meeting I held with the World Bank that will bring in a capital of about $19 million for the development of the state. “As you can see, I am now back here, stronger and more energetic and with more vigour to work for the people of Ondo State and this we shall do.” In spite of Akeredolu’s self-acclaimed clean bill of health, observers are still worried if it would be advisable for him to contest for second term in office in 2020 in the face of his health status. Some even said the governor may soon leave the country for Germany to see his physician, which is an indication that he is not yet fit enough to carry out his official duties. When Sunday INDEPENDENT sought the views of some individuals in the state on whether it is advisable for the governor to still go ahead to contest for second term in office in the face of his acclaimed health challenges, there were divergent responses to this. Barrister Yemi Adetoyinbo, a constitutional lawyer, human rights activist, as well as a politician, said: “I have to thank God for the return of the governor after a short stay in Abuja to attend to his state of being. “At his age, it is normal. I think he has to rejig himself. Just like what President Muhammadu Buhari is doing now. Whether he’s on leave of absence, the function of government goes on. He has the Deputy Governor, Secretary to the State Government, the Chief of Staff and Commissioners discharging their functions, just like we had recently, when President Buhari had to sign the oil bill in far away London in Nigeria House. These are constitutional issues. “Nigerians were concerned that can the President signed a bill outside the shores of Nigeria and there were deferring opinions. But, if the law says it’s Nigeria House, then it’s Nigeria territory. “American Presidents had issues. George Bush had problem with dog. But if American president has health issue, he will be wheeled to the podium and address the people and wheeled back. In the Republic of Benin, former President Nicephore Soglo was bewitched by voodoo men for a very long time. After winning an election, he was taken to France and received medical treatment before coming back to complete an eight-year tenure. That was unprecedented. So, health challenges are not issues. “Let me say this, our own governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), is not an exemption to this. So, the fact that he has returned safely back to the state, he’s constitutionally, legally as well as it is expedient and he’s qualified and competent to re-contest for the seat for second term. Once he has a clean bill of health and he has arrived the state safely and set to complete his first term mandate. He’s discharging his duties. “The issue of contesting for second term, constitutionally, he’s allowed and guaranteed. He’s qualified to re-contest and seek for another four-year term. “So, if the governor feels he’s competent and capable health wise, he can face the rigour of electioneering campaigns, why not? “If All Progressives Congress (APC) organises the gubernatorial primary election and the governor wins, definitely, he will fly the flag of the party. So, people are just raising propaganda. This could be for some people to score cheap political points. “When people are saying one thing or another, and the person that is concerned has demonstrated a resounding resolve that he’s ready to go ahead, he has not addressed anybody that he won’t be able to go ahead. So, his body language is clear that he’s ready to go ahead. That he’s ready to seek second term in office and has continued his performance in all spheres in the state.” The State Publicity Secretary of APC, Alex Kalejaiye, declared that though Governor Akeredolu has not informed his party that he is vying for the governorship ticket of the party for the 2020, but he stated that if he eventually throws his hat into the ring, it is going to be a welcome idea. He explained: “Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, was in Abuja for a few weeks, on the advice of his doctor. There is nothing unusual about this, it is human. Now, he is back in the state, and has resumed fully, attending to issues of pressing concern to the state with expected vigour. “As I stated in a recent interview, he has not announced to the state secretariat the intention to participate in the 2020 process, but if he chooses to do so, that wouldn’t be an aberration. “However, it is not the duty of the party to decide whether he is fit, healthwise, to contest or not. His physician is saddled with that responsibility. The duty of the party is to consider eligibility, and ability to represent the party well, by implementing carved out programmes. “The APC is deeply concerned about the welfare of the people, and the development of the land. These would form the crux of the party’s decision when the time comes.” Ojo Oyewamide, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, dismissed the insinuations that the health of the governor would undermine his capability of holding the rein of the state for another four years. He reasoned that the medical history of the governor does not suggest he could be incapacitated to run the affairs of the state if he chooses to seek another four-year term in office. He queried: “Does the question of whether the governor will be medically fit to contest next year’s gubernatorial election in the state arise? No, it doesn’t arise at all. “Governor Akeredolu does not have a history of any serious ailment. He has been in the saddle for about three years now, there has never been a time he was admitted into any hospital. “In his broadcast to the people of the state last Sunday, the governor said he was on a working leave outside the state for four weeks. He added that the leave afforded him the opportunity for a personal reflection and also medical review of his health on the advice of his doctors in order to be renewed for the all-important task of serving the Sunshine State better than before. “In the broadcast, Governor Akeredolu reported the new grounds that were broken for bigger and wider opportunity to develop the state and the people while he was on the working leave. Could anybody who was seriously sick have done all that? “So, it was mischievous people that sought to make a mountain out of the molehill of the governor’s working leave. The governor was not in any hospital while he was outside Ondo State. Rather, he was at the Ondo State Governor’s Lodge, Abuja, attending to state matters. “Since he came back to Akure, the state capital, penultimate Friday, Governor Akeredolu has not failed to come to his office. Last Thursday, he received the Project Implementation Plan for the proposed Ondo Deep Seaport from Ocean Infrastructure Management (OIM), a Spanish firm, and Franchise and Business Solutions Limited (FBS), its Nigerian partner.” Nevertheless, the people of the state may not be nursing any fear about the health status of the governor, but some propagandists in the political circle in the state have their goals and may want to feed on the absence of the governor from the state for the first time in three years. Others who commented on the issue of whether the governor should re-contest or not dismissed the health issue as a farce. They were only concerned about how the governor would quickly complete some of the ongoing construction projects in different parts of the state. Besides, they are hopeful that the job creation programmes, particularly the ones aimed at youths in the state, would continue in full blast as the governor returned to the state. Most of the people only judged the health of the governor by the testimony of the governor during the state broadcast on his return to the state. One of them queried if rumour mongers knew much about the health of the governor better than himself (governor). Barrister Adetoyinbo, however, said: “Emphatically and empirically, it is justifiable and in order that the governor seeks the second term in office to further showcase the ability he has demonstrated in the last three years in office to better the lot of the people of the state. “Massive road construction projects are going on in the state capital and other places in the state. Definitely, he has the support of the people to go ahead so he could complete all the works he had begun to avoid issue of abandoned projects. “What matters is that whoever wins the APC primary would face the candidates of other parties at the polls. “My appeal to our people is to let us rally round the governor and ensure that he delivers. Since God has entrusted the state in his hand, let us forget about this entire shenanigan’s theory and all this pull-him-down theories. “He has the constitutional right to re-contest except the man addresses the world press conference to defer that from medical report from a certain hospital that he’s not going to contest. Even the constitution provides that when there’s issue of incapacity, who takes over. So, completion of a tenure or contestation of another election is a constitutional issue.” However, it could not be ascertained at present whether the governor would contest for the second term in office or not due to ongoing crisis in the state chapter of APC. Some disgruntled chieftains of the party have been condemning and blaming the governor for the internal crisis that erupted after the gubernatorial primary election of the party in 2015. It is not certain if the governor would abandon the APC platform and contest in a new party to escape the gang up of the disgruntled chieftains at the party primary next year. As things stand in APC, observers stated that Governor Akeredolu would not be able to diffuse the implosion that is about to erupt in the party whenever the gubernatorial primary election programme of the party is released. The governor is relying on his performance in office in the last three years, particularly in areas of road construction which cut across all the three senatorial districts, renovation of public schools, job creation through the industrial park at Ore, among others. He’s of the belief that people of the state would give him the mandate for another for years due to fulfillment of his electioneering promises. Nevertheless, all still remains in the realm of conjecture as the governor still keeps everyone in suspense about his ambitions concerning the next governorship election in the state next year.