Chief Ifeatu-Obi Okoye is the Special Adviser on Political Matters to Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State. In this interview with CHUKWUJEKWU ILOZUE, he spoke on the heightening political tension in the state and the role of the opposition in unsettling the State Government. Excerpts: Why does it seem like politics is taking centre stage in Anambra State when the next gubernatorial election is more than two years away? Let me begin with an interaction I had recently with a friend. I realised that a lot of people don’t seem to know that the terminal date for this administration is March, 2022. Expectedly the election will come up between the end of 2021 and maybe, early 2022. We are in 2019, we still have a whole lot of 2020 and probably the primaries for that election will come up mid-2021. But you ask, why this sudden agitation or apprehension by the opposition? It is very clear. One thing that I have said at various fora is that, after 16 years in power, APGA must expect this restlessness. Our opponents have been out of power for 16 years. By the time the next election will come up, you would have had eight years of Governor Peter Obi and another eight years of Governor Willie Obiano, that is, a whole lot of 16 years, so one will say that they are agitated, they are in a hurry and they want it to come up today or tomorrow and the only unfortunate thing is that, there doesn’t seem to be any clean plan towards taking power from APGA. You cannot take power from APGA by blackmail and smear campaign you find going on in the social media. Many of these social media giants do not have voters’ cards, some of them are not relevant in the election process. Don’t you think that one of the factors leading to these is the seeming poor performance of the governor in some sectors, especially social infrastructures like roads, many of which are so bad now, and seeming abandonment of governance by the governor who has penchant for traveling abroad too often? Some of these issues are propaganda designed. Recently I travelled to Abuja by road. I have also travelled to many parts of the country and I can make comparisons on roads. Our roads got bad this year, it was not like this last year; they were not like this during the last election. It is something that developed this year and you find out that it is a product of the sort of rain we had this year. It is not about Anambra. You saw that the kind of flood we had at Agbor for instance, so it was not about Anambra. We also have similar thing in Lagos and elsewhere. Bad roads is not a measure of what Anambra has been known in the last six years; rather it is a measure of what has come up in the last few months. Anybody who was here last year would know that we never talked about bad roads. By the end of December going into January, you will see the tremendous work that would have been done. The fire incident at Onitsha also gave your government a negative image. How do you react to that? But for the politicisation of that unfortunate event, one can look at what happened in Onitsha as to what happened in Lagos last week at Balogun market. We did not see politics there, we did not see the opposition abuse government; we did not see people who were on spot making commentaries derogatory to government. What we saw in Onitsha fire incident gave one the impression that there is a serious sabotage. We can’t play politics with security and when some of these things begin to happen often. Very soon after a successful launching of second phase of ‘operation kpochapu’, you realise that this opposition is so deadly that the people of Anambra must be careful. There has been some negative publicity on this government and the most recent came from the wife of your party’s former leader, Iyom Bianca Ojukwu. Is it not time your party mended fences with aggrieved members? Let me say that negative publicity is expected for the reasons I gave before, that the opposition is very desperate. We will expect more. The good thing is that these things are coming too early. For Lady Bianca, I have had occasions to speak with decorum about her. As a government, as a people and members of APGA, we have shown tremendous respect, we have shown tremendous restraints in discussing matters concerning her; the reason not being about her as a person. It is that she is one of the wives of our late leader and somebody we have a lot of respect for. Somebody we still adore, even in death. You can’t find any typical Igbo man who will want to insult Ojukwu or his family or his wife. Our issue with Lady Bianca started with the primaries. That is history, because the primaries have come and gone. We set up a lot of reconciliation teams. In her own case, she was not even taken in a general reconciliation team, there was a special team that visited her, which had the wife of the Governor, Senator Victor Umeh and so on. I don’t want to talk about the kind of things that came from her because if you make peace, you don’t mind the reaction of the person you are making peace with. But consistently, Bianca has tried to run down His Excellency. He is the leader of this state. Respect is reciprocal. Let me say this: some of us may lose that restraint and come out boldly against her because she is going beyond what we expect, of all the efforts we have made in order to pacify her. If she lost any benefits, she has been getting, it is just recently, it is not more than three months ago and it was because we have made strenuous efforts for over one year, you know when the primary was conducted last October. The Senator there is from Young Progressive Party (YPP) not even APGA or PDP. So, if she was our candidate what is the guarantee that she would have beaten Ifeanyi Uba? So, let us publicly beg her again, not for any weakness, but out of respect for Dim Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu. But for that fact we would have turned her to pieces because I think it is getting rather too much. Still on the wrangling in your party, there are one Mike Adams and Edozie Njoku laying claim to the leadership of the party and last month your party lost a major seat in the Idemili North. Don’t you think all these will impact negatively on the party particularly here in Anambra State? Let me separate the two issues: the question of Mike Adams/Edozie Njoku laying claims, and our losing a seat, have no relationship. For those two characters, we have finished with Edozie Njoku in the court. The same attitude we have taken on Mike. His case will be coming up on the 28 of November. For those two, rather than engage them in the sterile talks in the social media, we engage the services of our solicitors. We had a convention, which was monitored by INEC according to Law. Except we have another convention, that stands as a convention of APGA.