Lagos – Business transactions between Toyota (Nigeria) Ltd and one of its foremost business partners, Globe Motors, may have turned sour following the caveat emptor (buyers beware) placed on the latter by the former. Toyota Nigeria had last week placed advertisements in some national dailies renouncing its relationship with Globe Motors and warned its customers not to transact business with the company on its behalf henceforth. Toyota in the paid advertisements had said: “Globe Motors Holdings Nigeria Limited is no longer a Toyota accredited dealer hence is no longer authorised to transact any business on behalf of Toyota (Nigeria) Limited.” However, efforts to get the reactions of the two organisations on the issue proved abortive as none of the two parties was willing to talk to our correspondent. But, an unconfirmed report claimed that the crisis between the two may not be unconnected with the recent allegation against Globe Motors that it was illegally importing vehicles through the land borders, which led to its closure and others equally accused of the same offence by the officials of the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS). Mr. Victor Oguamalam, the Managing Director, Globe Motors did not respond to phone calls and text messages sent to his mobile phone on the issue, while Mrs. Bukky Ogunnusi, the Media Manager of Toyota Nigeria also declined to make comments. Besides, when our correspondent contacted Mr. Henry Ojuoko, the Senior Manager, Dealer Development, Toyota Nigeria, rather than state the company’s position on the issue, he simply referred our correspondent to Ogunnusi. “Please, contact Mrs. Ogunnusi,” he replied. Globe Motors has been one of the major accredited dealers of Toyota Nigeria Limited in the past years. Other accredited dealers of the company are Elizade Nigeria Limited, R.T, Briscoe (Nig.) Plc and Omoregie Auto Centre Limited. Others are Germaine Auto Centre Limited, Mandilas Enterprises Limited, Metropolitan Motors Limited and Kojo Motors Limited.