DAMATURU – The Yobe Youth Socio Economic Development Forum, has trained  over 1000 youths on cluster farming, agricultural value chain and enterprise development. Mr. Abubakar Adamu ,its national coordinator, who disclosed this at the training programme in Damaturu,explained that the aim of the sensitisation workshop was to enhance farmers’ skills and ability to access agricultural loan facilities. “Our ultimate aim for organising this workshop is to bring about the different stakeholder to proffer solutions to tackle the issue of food security and improving the life of rural farmers through the digitalisation of agriculture. “Improvement of the life of farmers, and forming of agricultural cooperative societies in the rural communities and access to Agricultural load facilities” he said. Adamu said while addressing the issue of food security, it was also important to consider some prevailing circumstances  in the northeast region. “The Boko Haram crises, global warming, desertification, youth unemployment were some of the critical factors that necessitated our decision to train these youths”, he added. Adamu also acknowledged the efforts of stakeholders from the international donor agencies who supported the programme. “I acknowledged the effort of, Food and Agricultural Organization of the UN (FAO), the International Funds for Agricultural Development (IFAD), local based NGOs and CSOs.Government funded agricultural initiatives such as the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), Bank of Agriculture (BOA), Development Finance Office (DFO) of CBN among others” One of the resource persons at the occasion, Malam Muhammed Gujba, a crop scientist from Yobe State University trained the participants on modern techniques of farming sweet potato, rice, cotton among other crops. On his part, Malam Aliyu Abubakar, the representative of NIRSAL, Yobe state, put the participants through the processes and requirements for securing loans for agricultural purposes. He also called on the participants to embrace modern ‘Agribusiness’, which according to him was an avenue to riches.