LAGOS – When members of the Lagos State House of Assembly commenced the move to bring the immediate past governor of the state, Akinwunmi Ambode to book over allegation of financial misappropriation, many political analysts and observers expressed the fact that the planned probe may eventually not see the light of the day. Some of those who expressed this view stood on the fact that such has never happened in the history of Lagos politics. Others were of the view that probing Ambode may lead to opening of so many cans of worm, which may end up landing many other top politicians in the state in trouble. The lawmakers had expected Ambode to appear before the two ad-hoc committees set up to probe the purchase of 820 buses, which were allegedly bought without approvals and also some funds, which were said to have been spent without authorisation from the legislators. The House, after perceiving that Ambode was not willing to show up, went extra mile to place advertorials in virtually all the national dailies in the country, inviting the ex-governor to show up before the ad-hoc committees. And on the very day he was expected to show up, Ambode stunned the lawmakers by approaching the court to request for a judgment seeking the House from going further with the planned probe. However, Justice Yetunde Adesanya of a Lagos State High Court on Wednesday, October 31st, ordered the Lagos State House of Assembly to maintain the status quo in the ongoing investigation of former governor. Justice Adesanya’s order followed an exparte motion filed by Ambode through his counsel, Tayo Oyetibo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). The court judgment forced the joint ad-hoc committees to adjourn its proceeding till further notice. Addressing journalists after the adjournment by the Committee, Hon. Fatai Mojeed, the Chairman of the ad-hoc committee responsible for probing the purchase of the 820 buses, stated that the matter was adjourned indefinitely as the committee got court summon to stay action on the matter and that they had to respect the opinion of the court. “We are lawmakers we are not law breakers, which was why we had to adjourn the matter indefinitely. The people of Lagos should be expecting more from us,” he said. Also speaking, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu said that the House was not trying to witch hunt anybody or put anybody on the spot for any reason. Yishawu stressed that the Assembly was not being pushed by any individual on the matter, while recalling that the issue dated back to 2017, when it was included in the appropriation law but was not approved by the House. Olaniran Obele from the chambers of Oyetibo, protested that they were not allowed into the committee meeting, insisting that they were at the Assembly to hand over the court summon to the Chairman of the Committee and the Speaker of the House, but that the summon was not accepted and that they were prevented from witnessing the Committee meeting. “The court said that nothing should be done about the matter and we tried to serve notices to the Chairman of the Committee and the Speaker of the House, but they refused to accept it from us. “We were around, while the preliminary of the proceeding was on, but we were not allowed in. We didn’t come here to submit court proceedings alone, but we came to represent the former governor. If they didn’t take any step, we don’t have problem with that, but it would be very sad if they took any action,” he alleged. Though the House has said the probe has no motive behind it but many residents and observers don’t believe this claim. However, the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, while giving a remark on Friday after the presentation of the 2020 budget by the incumbent governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, alleged that the former governor employed blackmail and harassment to witch-hunt and deprive the House from performing its duties appropriately. The Speaker said, “Regarding the last administration, I have heard from different quarters about people asking why this House did not properly query the actions of the immediate former governor while in office. Alas, there is nothing of such. “Let me take you down the memory lane that it was in this House that Vision Scape, a policy of the last administration, was openly condemned and tagged a ghost. Remember too that this House questioned the provision of the budget for this idea. “But some people, like one Olu Fajana with his faceless group calling themselves the Legislative Probity and Accountability (LPA) led a protest to this House. They used the medium to blackmail the House instead of reasoning with us to join hands in moving the state forward, by avoiding the treasury of the state from being touched unconstitutionally. “With this, it is common knowledge that the last administration employed blackmailing and harassment to witch-hunt and deprive the House from performing its duties appropriately. “Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind this gathering that of recent, Lagos State budget has become a topical issue vis-à-vis last administration where provision of the budget law was being viciously violated. It is worthy of note that the Nigeria 1999 Constitution recognises the separation of power and empowers the State House of Assembly to dictate how the state fund is being expended and the manner of its presentation.” Obasa, while insisting that the House will never be deterred from doing its work, assured that the House is ready to collaborate and support Sanwo-Olu’s administration and to ensure that all the electoral promises made are achieved and delivered promptly. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT on how the former governor was able to stop the lawmaker from probing him of the allegations leveled against him, a close ally of Ambode who doesn’t want his name in print, explained that the ex-governor didn’t do anything wrong as alleged by members of the House of Assembly. According to the source, “they are just hell bent on rubbishing the name Ambode but unfortunately they failed. Ambode never did anything wrong, all these allegations against him are untrue. There is no project Ambode executed that they were never aware of. “We thought they were done with him after the conduct of the governorship primary but it surprising they have chosen to chosen to continue denting the name of the former governor.” When asked to defend why Ambode had to approach the court when he knew he was not guilty of the allegations against him, the source said, “Any other person in Ambode’s shoes would have done the same thing. Approaching the court doesn’t mean he is guilty of those allegations. Don’t forget that Babatunde Fashola did the same thing when he was the governor, the House wanted to ridicule him after receiving a petition from one faceless group called ‘True Face of Lagos’. What did he do? He went to court to stop the lawmakers from probing him. So nobody can say that Ambode has done anything wrong by going to court.”