The Department of State Services (DSS) says no person has turned up to take delivery of Mr. Omoyele Sowore since a court order was received for his release. Dr Peter Afunanya, the Public Relations’ Officer of the Service disclosed this in a statement on Saturday in Abuja. He said the clarification was necessary for reasons of accountability, adding that, the service had received the court order for his release. According to him, the Court has been properly briefed on the development and steps are being taken to ensure compliance with the order. He said the service was not a lawless organisation and would never obstruct justice or disobey court orders. Afunanya pledged the commitment of the service to do the needful upon completion of the appropriate processes for Sowore’s release. Meanwhile, the Executive Secretary, National Human Rights Commission, Mr Tony Ojukwu, has urged law enforcement agencies to abide by the rule of law and refrain from disobeying court orders. Ojukwu gave this advice while reacting to the alleged refusal of officials of the DSS to release Sowore on bail, despite meeting his bail conditions. The executive secretary who frowned at Sowore’s continued detention, noted that disobedience of court order was an invitation to uncertainty in the law. According to Ojukwu, many cases have been reported to the commission about investigating police officers and state security officers deliberately refusing or delaying to verify bail conditions following court orders just to punish the suspects unduly for reasons that are not constitutional. However, despite claim by the agency that no one has turned up to take delivery of Sowore, there was a mild drama at the DSS Headquarters in Abuja on Saturday as the officers turned back Sowore’s lawyer and family members denying them access into the facility. Sowore’s lawyer, Abubakar Marshal had arrived the DSS office at 10 am alongside some family members to secure his release. But trouble started when the officers manning the gate asked the lawyer their mission at the facility. Marshal therefore introduced himself, explaining that he was there to take the delivery of his client who was granted bail on the order of the court. But the officer in charge said he would like to get clearance from the higher authority. The situation that led to altercation as the lawyer vowed and insisted that he would not leave the premises until Sowore is out. He reminded them the press release issued by the service on Friday night where they claimed that no person has turned up to take the delivery of his client. In the heat of the argument the DSS Director of Legal put a call to Marshal claiming that he was not around. The situation, however, compelled the activists to stage a protest at the facility, calling for the release of the detained activists. One of the coordinators of the rally, Lanre Legacy described the action of DSS in flouting court order and holding Sowore further, as invitation to anarchy. Legacy said: “It means we don’t have a nation that is working, if the government itself would not respect its own institution, then that is anarchy, we are in the jungle. It means the government is not even different from the insurgency  (boko haram). It means the government is not difference from kidnappers and those who are looting.