LAGOS – The premises of the Lagos State House of Assembly on Friday, October 8th, 2019, witnessed a heavy presence of officers from different security agencies across Lagos State, as the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu came before the lawmakers to present the 2020 budget, which he (Sanwo-Olu) christened “Budget of Awakening to a Greater Lagos”. The budget proposal was Sanwo-Olu’s inaugural presentation to the state assembly since assuming office on May 29. At about few minutes past 11a.m., the governor was already in the hallow chamber of the Lagos Parliament with the Speaker, Rt.Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, all the principal officers of the House and members, members of the state executive council, staff of the Assembly and other invited guests all seated for the business of the day. In his introduction, Sanwo-Olu congratulated the Speaker and the members (new and returning) on their victory at the polls and their efforts and achievements over the last six months in office. The governor, while noting that global economic factors like the drop in crude oil price and environmental challenges like rising sea levels, have affect the state and its economy, he was quick to also add that, “As one of the fastest growing cities in the world, hosting 10 per cent of the country’s population on less than 0.4 per cent of the entire land mass, Lagos indeed has its own special set of challenges such as unemployment, infrastructural deficit, climate change, and high levels of unchecked rural-urban migration,” he said. He however, expressed confident that with the creativity, ingenuity and resilience of the citizens, and the determination of his administration, “our aspirations for a Greater Lagos – a prosperous, safe and secure Lagos – are very much on course.” The objectives of the 2020 budget proposal according to Sanwo-Olu include: Attract private sector investments to the State economy by creating an enabling environment; aggressively develop, upgrade and maintain our Infrastructure; invest in human capital development (education and healthcare); facilitate sustainable social investment and enterprise; improve capacity to collect due revenues as efficiently as possible; improve civic participation in governance, and automate public services and engagement; build impactful partnerships with the Federal Government, other States, development partners and civil society; and improve the quality of the environment and our public spaces generally. While reviewing the performance of the Year 2019 budget, which was presented by his predecessor, Akinwunmi Ambode but was signed into law by him, Sanwo-Olu said, “As at September 2019, overall budget performance stood at 69%. Total revenue was ₦468.576 billion representing 78% of our target performance. As at September 2019, Capital Expenditure stood at ₦217.763 billion, representing 61% performance, while Recurrent Expenditure performance came in at 79%.” After the re-ordering that was approved by the House on Tuesday, October 29th, 2019, many had thought that the 2020 budget proposal figure would be retained at six zeros digits (billion), but Sanwo-Olu wowed the gathering when he announced the proposed budget size of N1.168 Trillion (One Trillion, One Hundred and Sixty-Eight Billion Naira), which he said would be funded by a projected Total Revenue of 1.071 Trillion Naira, and a deficit amounting to 97.53 Billion Naira. This budget size is higher than the 2019 budget by 34 per cent. He explained that capital expenditure amounts to 723.75 Billion Naira while the Recurrent Expenditure is 444.81 Billion Naira giving a 62:38 capital to recurrent ratio. “This, in our view, is strong for development.” No doubt the state is in urgent need of revival with majority of roads crying for help. So dedicating about 62 per cent of the entire budget to capital project is an attestation that the governor is really willing to take the state back to its glorious days. “This budget seeks to aggressively invest in and develop our education, health and other physical infrastructure sectors. Although our capital spent on works and infrastructure was just 31 Billion Naira as at September 2019, as against the 2019 budget proposal of 78 Billion Naira, it is our intention to spend 115 Billion Naira in 2020.” Education is said to be the bedrock of any society, Sanwo-Olu bearing this in mind, told the gathering that, “Education will see a significantly increased capital budgetary allocation of 48 Billion Naira, an increase of 60% over the 2019 provision of 30 Billion Naira. “We must improve the standard and relevance of our education outcomes to our industries. We will work together with our Local governments to strengthen early child education and teachers’ training/administration, leveraging technology. “Similarly, in healthcare, we have provided for a capital expenditure of 33 Billion Naira, compared to the 2019 budget proposal of 21 Billion Naira. We will ensure that our primary health care institutions remain active and attractive to the primary health care needs of our people. Lagos belongs to us all; we will continue therefore to drive partnerships with the private sector in promoting health services within our institutions. “Given the perennial challenges of flooding in the metropolis, we have tripled the capital budget provision to tackle this from 3 Billion Naira in 2019 to 9 Billion Naira in 2020,” he stated. The governor also disclosed that the 2020 budget will be supported by a “Performance Management System” that will ensure that, by December 2020, “we shall achieve an optimal budget implementation when compared with previous years. This is in line with our commitment to transparency and accountability in the management of public finances,” Sanwo-Olu added. The Speaker, in his remarks, noted that no amount of road patching, rehabilitations and constructions will solve transportation problem in Lagos, judging by the influx of people into the state on daily basis. While advising that, “It is high time we came up with innovative ideas and strategies to bring about change to the state with the aim of taking it to the next level”, Obasa noted that the state as it is today needs radical, aggressive and a holistic revamping, and therefore, requires an urgent economic and infrastructural turn around. He explained that to move Lagos forward, “there is the need to focus more attention on rail to connect the entire Lagos. A rail from Ogun State boundary down to Lekki Epe side, a rail from Ikorodu to also same area should be urgently considered. And the ones under construction must be speedily completed. “At the same time, more still need to be done about water transportation. Ilo Rivers running from Sango links Alimosho, Ojo, Amuwo back to CMS. Also, Odo Iya Alaro runs up to Ikorodu. This might sound like a tall order. But we should start from somewhere. Dubai did not start in a day. They laid the foundation and continue building on it. Now, it is an envy of all.” “Nevertheless, our dear Governor, I charge you to be visionary and have a huge dream of paradise for our people. I charge you to employ the wisdom of Solomon and courage of Moses that will change the tone and system of government in Lagos State. “Let me therefore at this juncture assure Mr. Governor and all our people that my colleagues and I shall promptly and diligently commence work on the Y2020 budget just presented to this Honourable House. “We will ensure that Lagos State occupies the enviable position that has always been reserved for us. We will work diligently for the early passage of the budget so that developmental work can start in earnest in the state. In other words, our intention is to make this budget a special New Year gift to the people of this great state.”