Deacon Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, Deputy Governor of Delta State, has described as laudable the decision of the elder statesman, Chief Dr Edwin Clark to establish a university, saying it would better the lots of the Niger Delta region and Nigeria in general. Otuaro spoke, over the weekend, at the maiden convocation ceremony of the Edwin Clark University, Kiagbodo, Burutu Local Government Area. founded in 2015. Speaking further at the ceremony where former President, Dr Goodluck Jonathan bagged an honorary Doctor of Science (D. Sc.) degree, the Deputy Governor appreciated the University’s council acknowledgement of the support given by the Delta State government for ECU and assured “The Delta State government as part of its educational policy will continue to offer its contributions and collaboration to advance the great cause for which the university was established”. To the graduands, he said, “I urge you to be great ambassadors of the university. There is no gainsaying the fact that you have seamlessly passed through the required tutelage. You have been built through character and learning. We expect that you will strive along that great path wherever you find yourself in this country or beyond”. He advised the graduands who are of Delta State origin who made First Class grade in ECU, Kiagbodo, to leverage on the Delta State Government Post-Graduate Scholarship programme for further studies. In his convocation address, Clark, Founder/Chancellor of Edwin Clark University (ECU) said: “As an educationist and former Federal Commissioner for Information in whose stint the University of Benin was founded, I have always wanted to establish a university to provide quality education for Nigerians. “This great idea came into realization at the age of 85 years when I revealed my desire to apply for a license to establish a university to fulfil my dream of opening up the Niger Delta region educationally and attract youth, men and women to the oil-rich region in search for knowledge”. Earlier, ECU Pro-Chancellor, Prof. E. J. Alagoa thanked the Okowa-led Delta State Government and the Henry Dickson-led Bayelsa State Government for providing a studio and building for Mass Communication Department for the University. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Timothy Olagbemiro announced that the institution graduated 41 among whom were seven in First Class honours grade, 18 Second Class Upper and 16 2nd Class Lower division. “The ECU vision and mission in reviving the lost core values of integrity, respect, obedience, service, love and care in the societal value system, has been a great global challenge”, the Vice-Chancellor emphasized.