The police in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, Tuesday arraigned one Mr. Nduka Uzor and Chimezie Christopher both 36 years old, for an alleged child theft. It was gathered that the duo conspired and stole a one-year-old baby boy (name withheld) and unlawfully confined him with the intention of selling him on October 31, 2019. The police said the suspects committed the said offence at Ekwulumiri Street, Abakaliki, in the Abakaliki Local Government Area of the state on October 31, 2019. After investigation, they were arraigned before an Ebonyi Magistrates’ Court, sitting in Abakaliki, on three counts charge bothering on child stealing, conspiracy and unlawful confinement. The Police Prosecutor, Barr. Mathias Eze, told the court that the offence was punishable under Sections 516A(a), 371(a) and 365 of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. The charge read, “That you Nduka Uzor and Chimezie Christopher, on the 31st day of October, 2019, at Ekwulumiri Street, Abakaliki in the Magisterial District did conspire amongst yourselves to commit felony to wit: child stealing and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 516A(a) of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. “That you Nduka Uzor, and Chimezie Christopher, on the same date and place in the aforesaid Magisterial District did unlawfully steal one-year-old baby boy, without the consent and authority of his parents and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 371(a) of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. “That you Nduka Uzor ‘m’ and Chimezie Christopher ‘m’, on the same date and place in the aforesaid Magisterial District did unlawfully confine and deprived a year-old baby boy, of his parents liberty and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 365 of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009.” The Chief Magistrate, Nnenna Onuoha, granted the accused persons bail in the sum of N2 million each, with one surety in like sum. She said the surety must be resident within the jurisdiction of the court and must be a property owner within the court jurisdiction; he must show evidence of Certificate of Occupancy of the said property to the Registrar of the court. The matter was adjourned till November 28, 2019 for hearing.