LAGOS – Africa aviation is projected to contribute $159bn to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the continent in the next 17 years. The sector would also create about 9.8 million jobs within the same period. Mr. James Odaudu, Director, Public Affairs, Federal Ministry of Aviation, in a statement said that Dr. Bernard Aliu, President, International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Council stated this yesterday in Dakar, Senegal at the ongoing 50th anniversary celebration of the African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC). According to Aliu, aviation industry is one of the fastest growing today and currently supports 6.2 million jobs and contributes $55.8bn to Africa’s GDP. Aliu emphasised that these trends underscored the tremendous potential of well-managed and ICAO-compliant air transport growth to lift Africa into a new era of promise and prosperity. He described air connectivity as a unique and indispensable catalyst for socio-economic growth, adding that the sector also facilitates mobility and contributes to the development of trade, tourism, and services both within Africa and between it and the world. He said: “In Africa today, air transport supports 6.2 million jobs and 55.8 billion dollars in Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and the African aviation market is one of the world’s most promising in terms of its overall growth potential, due largely to your emerging industrial sectors and steadily increasing population figures. “In accordance with ICAO’s long-term traffic forecasts, passenger traffic for the Africa region is expected to grow by 4.3 per cent annually up to 2045, while freight traffic should also expand faster than world average, at 3.9 per cent annually over the same period. “These increases should see aviation-related employment in Africa increasing to roughly 9.8 million jobs by 2036, and its air transport GDP impacts almost tripling to $159 billion over the same period.” The direct routes air transport establishes between international destinations and markets has been recognised for its critical contributions to state’s achievement of the United Nations Agenda 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, in addition to the implementation of the African Union’s (AU’s) Agenda 2063, he explained. Aliu however noted that Africa must also recognised and act upon the fact that the current status of connectivity on the continent was still sub-optimal, thereby hindering the realisation of the aviation benefits now awaiting African societies.