Abuja – Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, embattled national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), was a disappointed man on Monday when he stormed Jos, Plateau State, venue of the Progressives Governors’ Forum meeting, apparently to forestall alleged plot by the governors to oust him as national chairman of the party. Recall that some state APC chairmen had called for his resignation shortly after the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party in Abuja, having failed on Friday to move a motion for his sack at the NEC. The battle ground, we gathered, was to shift to Jos where most of the APC governors were expected to meet to push through the agenda. Not to be intimidated, the former Edo State governor reliably moved his war arsenal to Jos but was met with disappointment as majority of the APC governors stayed away from the meeting. The APC national chairman, who was seen at a dinner organised by the Plateau State governor, Simon Lalong, to welcome the progressive governors, was not on the list of invitees to the meeting. Sources close to the organisers disclosed that the APC boss was not officially invited for the event, but that he showed up anyway, apparently to lobby some of the governors. The APC sources stressed that the organisers were surprised to see their chairman. “Oshiomhole and some members of the National Working Committee of the APC were not invited for the parley. “Maybe the NWC members were in Jos to lobby the governors over the crisis in the party,” the source said, adding that the poor turnout at the meeting may have disappointed the APC national chairman. In a statement announcing the Federal Government/governors parley in Jos, and signed by the director-general of PGF, Salihu Mohammed Lukman, the APC national chairman was not listed as a participant. The statement had read: “President Muhammadu Buhari will be the special guest of honour. “Participants expected at the parley include the 19 progressive governors; principal officers of the National Assembly and APC legislators; Ministers of Internal Affairs, Transport, Education, Humanitarian Affairs, and Minister of State for Health. “Other participants are the EFCC chairman; director, Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit; executive secretary, Universal Basic Education Commission (UBE); executive secretary, National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA), and many other government functionaries invited from the 19 APC-controlled states.” Among the 19 APC governors, only six and three deputy governors were in attendance at the parley of the PGF and FG. The governors who were in attendance were the host governor, Simon Lalong; Kaduna governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai; Jigawa governor, Abubakar Badaru; Kebbi governor, Atiku Bagudu; Edo governor, Godwin Obaseki, and Niger governor, Sani Bello. The deputy governors who were in attendance were those of Kogi, Gombe, and Kano states. A source close to one of the governors said the governors may have deliberately stayed away from the Jos parley to avoid being lobbied by Oshiomhole. “Some of the governors got hint of Oshiomhole’s presence in Plateau State and they decided to stay away. The essence was for them (the governors) not to form a quorum and agree on anything with Oshiomhole,” he disclosed. This was confirmed by a National Working Committee (NWC) member who said, “Yes, we were there to see the coup plotters. The coup plotters have failed till March next year when the party would hold another NEC.”