Chief Martin Onovo, the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), is currently a chieftain of the Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on crucial national issues, including the quest for Igbo presidency. Excerpt: Several commentators have been speaking on the loss of Abubakar Atiku at the Supreme Court. How did you see the development? Many people predicted earlier that the opposition would lose the case at the Supreme Court. But, the reasons for their predictions were mostly based on the national dysfunctionality we have in Nigeria. Mr. Timi Frank, former national officer of the ruling party, insisted that the Supreme Court Justices were selected in connivance with the presidency to favour the ruling party. We must also remember that the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) had earlier accused the Buhari government of intimidating the judiciary. While we must accept the judgment of the Supreme Court, we must also note that it contradicts some facts we know about the case. Some of the facts include: The allegations of perjury against Buhari on the issue of his certificate remain. Buhari did not attach his claimed educational certificates to his INEC form. WAEC could not certify the certificate that Buhari presented in the court. The country mourned when the disputed results were announced. The Nigerian Stock Market dipped with the announcement. INEC could not justify the outrageous results it published. INEC prevented inspection of its server to conceal the evidence that the electronic collation confirmed that Alhaji Atiku won the election. INEC was previously accused of working for the ruling party. Illogical and outrageous results were announced for states like Borno, Yobe, Kano, Kaduna and Katsina, all in favour of Buhari. How did Borno, a war-torn desert state, return more votes than two peaceful densely populated Southeast states of Enugu and Abia put together? The ruling party had no defence as it called no witnesses. Local and international observers condemned the elections. Many experts have condemned the ruling of the Supreme Court. Prominent international constitutional lawyer and legal colossus, Prof. Ben Nwabueze, has published that the judgment violates Section 36 of the Constitution and that it is therefore “null and void”. In the nation’s history, no presidential candidate declared by INEC had lost a case at the apex court, especially an incumbent. Why do you think Atiku’s camp was so optimistic? We expect our courts to ensure that all parties and the public get justice always. Given the facts that we know about the educational issues of Buhari and the affidavit he provided to INEC and the pre-election polls and exit polls and the conduct of the charade that INEC called elections, in addition to reports about the results on the INEC server and the reports of observers and monitors and the illogicality of the results, particularly from Borno, Yobe, Kano, Kaduna and Katsina states, then, it was reasonable to expect the case the other way. Do you see Atiku contesting again in 2023? The constitution is clear about the minimum requirements for candidates for the office of President of Nigeria. Alhaji Atiku has those requirements and has even contested many times. He has the right to run again, if he wishes to do so. We think he would be too old to run by 2023. What do you think should be the way forward for the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) and other groups that backed Atiku? There are many options for the CUPP and other groups. The first option is to politically challenge the outcome of the election till Buhari is forced to resign. Another option is to join the ruling party. Another option is to form an opposition block, as there are many parties in the CUPP. There are also other options. There has been campaigns for 2023 Igbo Presidency. How do see the development? It is too early to discuss 2023 politics. The country has been led into extreme poverty, insecurity, massive corruption, hyper-inflation, crushing national debt, dictatorship and mass unemployment by this government. We must all focus our energy on “saving” Nigeria now instead of on 2023 politics. We must have a country before we can have a President. We must not allow the ruling party to continue to destroy our country. Why do you think South East political leaders seem reluctant to join the Eastern Union (EU) in its efforts to seek support for the president of Igbo extraction? In our opinion, it is too early. However, their position is already very popular with many Nigerians based on the conventional rotation of the presidency between the North and the South. There are many other popular positions. There is the “Buhari must go” position. There is the IPOB position and there is the most popular position of restructuring. We insist that Buhari has failed catastrophically and he should resign. Theresa May only had her BREXIT Plan rejected before she resigned. Buhari has failed on every index, including, Security, Democracy, National Unity, Anti-corruption and the Economy. Buhari and Prof. Yemi Osinbajo should resign to save the country from their catastrophic leadership. What is your take on Dr Junaid Mohammed, a northern political elite’s attacks against Igbo presidency? Alhaji Junaid Mohammed is a political pundit. He is well known for his sectional and divisive positions. He has no mandate to speak for the North. He is not the Chairman of Arewa Consultative Forum. He is not the Chairman of the Northern Elders Forum. He cannot even speak for Kano State. One Nigeria cannot be based on the injustice and domination he promotes. He must think before he speaks. The Constitution of Nigeria is clear about the rights of citizens. Let Alhaji Junaid Mohammed show us how and where the Constitution of Nigeria excludes Igbos from the presidency. He should know that Nigerians are guaranteed their freedom from discrimination and that his opposition to the Constitution of Nigeria shows that he is not committed to one Nigeria. APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu, is being speculated as eyeing the presidency in 2023. From the South East point of view, would you say his vision is right and proper? Again, we insist that it is too early to discuss 2023 politics. Alhaji Bola Tinubu may have a right to aspire. But, he also may be too old. His vision is not national. His structure is not national. If he is presented by any political party, his candidacy will be weighed against the candidacy of others that will be presented by other parties. How right was President Muhammadu Buhari not to transmit power to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo when he travelled out of the country recently? Buhari must go. Not transmitting power may not be as catastrophic as violating the Constitution and disobeying court orders. These deviations have all contributed to the catastrophic failure of his government. What is your view on the continued closure of land borders with neighbouring countries? The closure of our land borders by the government is a poor policy that has failed. It is a confirmation of the failure of the government to maintain border control. Now, how can a government that is unable to maintain border control then enforce border closure? The closure is ineffective as has been confirmed by the House member representing Daura Federal Constituency. Legitimate businesses have been disrupted, while illegitimate businesses continue across our borders. As the economy is undermined, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has confirmed that inflation is rising. The poor idea of diverting goods to congested ports goes further to highlight the incompetence of the government. While we are closing our borders to international trading, we have opened them wide to terrorist Fulani herdsmen. God help us. Onovo