LAGOS – The delegation of the Senior Men National Team of Benin Republic, known as Squirrels, will land in Uyo, capital of Akwa Ibom State on Tuesday (today), ahead of Wednesday’s 2021 AFCON qualifying duel with the Super Eagles. Both teams clash at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in the Day One encounter of the qualifying campaign as from 5pm on Wednesday. The two teams were also part of the 2019 AFCON finals in Egypt, with Nigeria winning the bronze medals while Benin Republic famously defeated Morocco while holding their own against Cameroon and Ghana. Players of the Super Eagles began arriving in Uyo on Sunday, with defender Kenneth Omeruo and utility player Samuel Kalu among the early birds at the Ibom Meridien Hotel and Resorts. CAF has named Senegalese official Issa Sy as referee for the match, to be assisted by compatriots Nouha Bangoura (assistant referee 1), El Hadji Abdoul Aziz Gueye (assistant referee 2) and Fatou Thioune (fourth official). The Day 1 clash in the qualifying series will also see Munkaila Nassam Adam from Ghana as match commissioner while Kria Samir Bouzareah from Algeria will play the role of referee assessor. The match officials arrived in Uyo on Monday. Cameroon is the designated host nation for the 2021 AFCON finals. Meanwhile, the Le Meridien Hotel camp of the Super Eagles has continued to surge with more and more players arriving for Wednesday’s 2021 AFCON qualifiers against Benin Republic and the Lesotho in Maseru. Toyin Ibitoye, the team’s media officer, who reeled out the names of players currently in camp, while in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said before the close of work today (Monday), virtually all the players expected to prosecute the game would have hit the camp. As of the time of filing this report on Monday evening, captain of the team, Ahmed Musa, Kenneth Omeruo, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, Samuel Kalu and Ramon Azeez were already in camp. Others already in Uyo, according to Ibitoye, are Chidozie Awaziem, Wilfred Ndidi, Ola Aina, Semi Ajayi, Okoye Maduka, Jamilu Collins, Daniel Akpayi and Victor Osimhen. “I am sure that before the close of today, we will likely have a full house or something very close to that,” Ibitoye said.