The Director-General of Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), Mr. Timothy Olawale, yesterday lauded the directive by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to commercial banks to maintain a minimum Loan Deposit Ratio (LDR) of 60 per cent, which it said was aimed at aiding the growth of the real sector of the economy. He, however, cautioned the apex bank on compelling the banks to give loans under the current macro-economic situation in the country. Olawale, who made the declaration in a chat with Journalists in Lagos, stated that “the directive by the CBN is a welcome development as the real sector had over the years suffered due to stringent conditions to access needed capital. Over time, banks have shied away from lending to the real sector, preferring, instead, to invest in government securities due to the high yield environment.” He stated that access to funding was a major challenge for the manufacturing sector in Nigeria. Olawale averred that while the objective of the apex bank was clear as regards improving the flow of needed credit to the private sector to stimulate growth, NECA was concerned about what he described as unorthodox methods deployed to achieve the aim. He said this may have many unintended negative effects on the policy if effective monitoring mechanism was not put in place. He noted that the attempt by the CBN was worthy of commendation considering the peculiar situation of the country, adding that over N1.5trn additional money would be available as credits to the real sector of the economy. He added: “However, forcing the banks to lend under the current macro-economic situation will only result in a likely build-up of non-performing loans in the medium to long term, given the sluggish growth in the economy and the high risk in the operating environment. This could pose a risk to financial stability.” The NECA Director-General also observed that the high interest rates, which remained at a double digit may also affect the policy. The NECA Director General, however, urged that “the CBN should to do more than give directives, but also ensure the effective implementation and monitoring of the directive. “More deliberate efforts should be made to ensure a hospitable business environment that will make lending attractive and borrowing by the real sector even more attractive.”