England manager Gareth Southgate and Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp are among the nominees for the 2019 UK Coaching Moment of the Year award. The ‘Great Coaching Moment of the Year’ award celebrates the moments that distinguish a coach from their focus on a sporting result to their focus on the person or people they are working with. Southgate received his nomination for the decision-making and leadership qualities he showed in supporting England’s players and backroom staff as they managed the racism which marred England’s European Qualifier against Bulgaria in September. Klopp has been recognised for masterminding Liverpool’s Champions League comeback against Barcelona, where his side overturned a 3-0 first-leg loss to qualify for the Champions League final with a dramatic 4-0 victory at Anfield. Southgate and Klopp are joined on the shortlist by John Blackie, who helped Dina Asher-Smith to two gold medals at the World Athletics Championships in Doha. While Adam Peaty’s longtime coach, Mel Marshall, completes the line-up having helped the British swimmer to another 100m breaststroke world record and World Aquatics Championship golds. “I’m so proud and happy to hear that John has been shortlisted for the Great Coaching Moment of the Year,” Asher-Smith said of Blackie’s nomination. “I would not be the woman and athlete I am today without his hard-work, selflessness and patience, and for that I will be forever grateful. John puts athletes first and I think he would be a worthy winner of this award.” “As one of the leading female coaches in our country, I’m thrilled that Mel has been recognised and nominated for Great Coaching Moment of the Year,” Peaty said of his long-term coach Marshall. “Mel is so much more than just a coach and is there for her athletes 24/7. We share common goals and a mutual understanding that we will work harder and be smarter which allows us to achieve the results that we do. “Mel shares the dreams of her athletes and has enabled me to grow not just as a swimmer, but also as a person, both physically and mentally. Mel is an incredible coach and she’s also an incredible person.” The shortlist was selected in partnership with the Sports Journalists’ Association and the winner will be decided by public vote. You can cast your vote at www.ukcoaching.org/GCM. The winner will be announced on December 5 at a ceremony at The Tower Hotel London.