LAGOS – Was Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state denied a visa entry into the United State? That is one question that is begging for answer right now. An online report had indicated that Fayemi, who is the Chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), Dr. Kayode Fayemi was rejected entry into the United States where he is billed to attend a function with his colleagues. According to the information, after the governor was informed of the development last Wednesday, he (Dr. Fayemi) in full blown anger stormed out to the Embassy. He demanded for the reason he was rejected, but was told to contact the appropriate offices to get further details. Dr. Fayemi was dissatisfied, enraged, to the extent that the Ekiti Governor tore the U.S. visa rejection documents and threw it at the embassy officials. With this development, the previously scheduled trip to the USA with the Governors Forum in the company of Alike Dangote to meet with Bill and Melinda Gates became was cancelled. The Governors Forum in effect issued a circular to all Governors indicating the cancellation of the trip. However, the NGF denied the reports saying it is not only unfounded but baseless. The forum, in a statement its Head of Communication, Mr. Razak Bello Barkindo, said the governor was not denied any visa as reported. Contrary to some reports, the statement explained Fayemi withdrew his international passport from the US Embassy because it clashed with his earlier schedules in South Africa. The statement read in part: “Fayemi, like every other Nigerian citizen intending to visit the US, applied for a visa, attended his interview and was requested to pay the statutory visa acceptance fee by the US Consulate. “The governor’s visa application was not denied. Anyone conversant with US Visa application procedure knows that applicants are now routinely taken through administrative processing before visas are issued. “When the American Embassy indicated that the visa may not be ready by Friday, November 8, Fayemi retrieved his passport because of a crucial speaking engagement at the AfDB Africa Investment Forum in South Africa on Monday, November 11. “It is imperative to mention here that Fayemi, only just returned from the United States where he attended the United Nation’s General Assembly where the NGF organised a high-level side meeting on September 27. “It is also important, at this juncture, to caution journalists on the rush to print, as blatant mischief, laden with glaring untruths as contained in the 247Ureports narrative, can drag the journalism profession to disrepute. “Knowing Fayemi, it is virtually impossible to associate him with the uncouth behaviour that 247Ureports dramatised”, the statement stated. Meanwhile, the statement said that the trip to the United States is at the instance of the Dangote Foundation in concert with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and it is on course. The forum said that the foundation and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation “have partnered for years on several global health and development initiatives in Nigeria. “In partnership with the NGF, the two foundations are hosting a group of executive governors in Seattle to discuss how to expand support of routine immunization and polio eradication efforts to help strengthen Nigeria’s primary health care system and the Human Capital Development agenda. “The visit will foster a deeper understanding of the state government’s development priorities within the context of the Human Capital Development framework and harvest perspectives to better inform joint strategies for greater impact and progress in meeting the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).” However, speaking with one of our correspondent, a credible source said that Fayemi was among some prominent Nigerians placed on visa ban by the United States government over their roles in electoral violence and other issues. Though the NGF had denied that the governor was denied the visa, a credible source at the US Embassy said the term “administrative process” is a polite way of saying someone is being denied a visa. According to him, it was the same method applied in the case of Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections as well as many other public and private individuals. “The truth is Governor Fayemi was technically denied a visa. That is what “administrative process” is. It is a polite way of saying so. Atiku Abubakar was the same administrative process and many other public private persons.” On whether the trip has been cancelled, our source said Governor Tambuwal will now lead the delegation in place of Fayemi. He added that the delegation will depart Nigeria tomorrow. “Governor Aminu Tambuwal will now lead the delegation to the US. They leave tomorrow to Seattle, Washington State to meet with Bill Gates. “Aliko Dangote and Bill Gates have committed so much money to Health Care especially Polio Eradication in Nigeria. Bill Gates Foundation alone has spent over $1billion on it,” he said. It will be recalled shortly before the conduct of the 2019 general elections, the US government had announced visa restriction on Nigerians who “sabotaged” the country’s democracy. “The United States is a steadfast supporter of Nigerian democracy. We commend all those Nigerians who participated peacefully in the February and March 2019 elections and have worked to strengthen Nigerian democratic institutions and processes,” the statement read. “As Nigeria marks the twentieth anniversary of a return to democratic rule this year, we remain committed to working together to continue to advance democracy and respect for human rights and achieve greater peace and prosperity for both our nations. We condemn those whose acts of violence, intimidation, or corruption harmed Nigerians or undermined the democratic process. “In a January 24 statement, the U.S. government said that we would consider consequences – including visa restrictions – for individuals responsible for undermining the Nigerian democratic process or for organising election-related violence. To that end, the Secretary of State is imposing visa restrictions on Nigerians believed to be responsible for, or complicit in, undermining democracy in Nigeria. These individuals have operated with impunity at the expense of the Nigerian people and undermined democratic principles and human rights.” Though the online medium that first reported the story has rejected the position of the NGF and said it stands by its story, Nigerians are expecting the USA Embassy to release a statement clarifying whether the USA denied the Governor a visa or whether the Governor withdrew his travel documents from the Embassy. The USA Embassy is yet to issue a statement.