ABUJA – The Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja, on Friday dismissed an appeal filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its governorship candidate in the 2019 election, Chief Great Ogboru, challenging the election of Ifeanyi Okowa, as the validly elected Governor of Delta State. Consequently, the appellate court affirmed the judgement of the Justice Sulaiman Belgore led Delta State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal which had on September 20, upheld Okowa’s election. A panel of five Justices of the Court of Appeal led by Justice Uzo Anyanwu-Ndukwe held that Ogboru’s appeal lacked merit and therefore was liable to be dismissed. Respondents in the appeal marked CA/B/EPT/GOV/1/2019, PETITION NO: EPT/DT/GOV/01/2019 are Okowa, his party, the PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission. In a unanimous judgment, the Court of Appeal agreed with the lower court that the petitioners did not prove their case beyond reasonable doubts as required by law. The appellate court noted that out of 896 polling units in which over voting was alleged, the petitioners only brought five party agents as witnesses while other 15 witnesses were ward or collation agents. The panel held that the proper witnesses to be called by Ogboru and APC were the polling agents, adding that five party agents cannot be in their units at a time, and testify on what happened in the other units. “The lower court was correct in its findings. Not calling all polling unit agents as witnesses was fatal to the case of the petitioners,” the panel stated. More so, the Court of Appeal said it could not interfere in the evaluation of evidence and findings of the tribunal, stressing that the appellants failed to mention names of those who voted without accreditation. Having failed to prove allegations of over voting, non-accreditation, and non-compliance, illegal allocation of unlawful votes and multiple voting, the panel said it has no business interfering with judgement of the tribunal. “The appeal lacks merit, accordingly it is dismissed” the panel held. It would be recalled that Justice Belgore in his judgment at the tribunal held that the petition of Ogboru and APC suffered the problem of proof as a result of lack of specifics in its insufficient pleadings, adding further that the petition was bereft of details. “There is gross insufficiency of pleadings in this case. The paragraphs are too generic without specifics. What the petitioners did was to lump all the polling units being disputed together. “Having faulted the petition, the petitioners failed to prove that the first respondent was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes at the election, and we so hold. “It is incorrect to contend that the first respondent did not win the election by a majority of lawful votes. It is crystal clear that he scored a total of 925,274 votes as against 215,938 votes scored by the first petitioner. “We find the declaration and return as shown in exhibits tendered satisfied the provision of section 25 and 69 of the Electoral Act, 2010 as amended.  We have no reason to upturn that declaration. This petition is gold digging, opportunistic, it failed and it is hereby dismissed,” the tribunal held. Adopting his brief of arguments against the appellants’ petition, A.T Kehinde SAN, counsel for the 2nd respondent (PDP) urged the court to dismiss the appeal. “Therefore, regardless of the fact that the total number of accredited voters recorded on the Smart Card Reader Report is less than the total number of votes cast on the election day, the appellants have failed to prove their allegations of over-voting. “The reliance of the appellants on the Smart Card Reader Report is fatal to their case and his Honourable Court is humbly urged to so hold and resolve this issue in favour of the 2nd respondent” Kehinde submitted. In conclusion, the 2nd respondent counsel urged the Court of Appeal to dismiss the appeal for the following reasons: “The appellants’ case at the Tribunal was one of over-voting and noncompliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act on accreditation. “The evidence of the respondents’ witnesses were cogent, credible and reliable. “The appellants failed to prove their allegations of over-voting and noncompliance with the Electoral Act polling unit by polling unit. “The appellants failed to prove that the allegations of over-voting and non-compliance with the Electoral Act substantially affected the result of the election.”