LAGOS – About six months into the second and last term of Governor Udom Emmanuel in Akwa Ibom State, the political atmosphere, albeit subtly, is gripped with apprehension, majorly, as to who would be the next governor of the state come 2023. This is even as the dispute arising from Emmanuel’s 2019 election victory has dragged on to the Court of Appeal, after the Akwa Ibom State governorship election tribunal had upheld the election of the governor. The judgment is being challenged by the main opposition party, the All Progressive Congress (APC), and its candidate in the 2019 election, Nsima Ekere. The Appeal Court in Calabar has reserved judgment in the APC governorship candidate’s case against Governor Emmanuel, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Justice M. A. Mishelia, who led four other judges, had on Monday, adjourned the governorship case along that of the Cross River governorship election in which the former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani Uguru Usani, is challenging INEC that he was the governorship candidate of the APC in the last election. The anxiety, notwithstanding being premised on certain obvious realities within the polity, is woven on speculations. Apart from Ekere, who, if he loses his appeal at the appellate court, may bid for the governorship again in 2023, others in APC believed to be seriously scheming for the position are Ita Enang, a former Senator and currently Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Niger Delta, Umana Umana, Managing Director, Oil and Gas Free Zone Authority, OGFZA, and John Udoedehe, a one-time Senator and former Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In the ruling PDP in the state, prominent among those speculated to be interested in running for the governorship in 2023 are Senator Bassey Albert of Akwa Ibom North-East Senatorial District, Akan Okon, Commissioner for Economic Development and Deep Seaport, Onofiok Luke, immediate past Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and currently a member of the House of Representatives, and Udom Inoyo, Vice Chairman of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited (MPN) and Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited (EEPNL). Others in the PDP are Paul Ekpo, Chairman Akwa Ibom State chapter of the PDP, Effiong Bob, a former Senator, Gabriel Ukpe, Chairman Akwa Ibom State Foreign-Direct Investment, and Ini Ememobong, Publicity Secretary of Akwa Ibom State chapter of the PDP. Meanwhile, the intensity is stronger in PDP as those in the APC stock are said to be preoccupying themselves in getting political patronages from the APC-led Federal Government in order to recoup whatever loses they incurred in their failure to deliver the state to APC in the last general elections. Making reference to the appeal filed by the APC and Ekere, the Publicity Secretary of APC in Akwa Ibom, Nkereuwem Enyongekere said, in a telephone conversation with Sunday INDEPENDENT: “It is the appeal that is occupying our minds now. We don’t talk about 2023 now.” Notwithstanding being in the realm of conjecture, it would be perilous on the part of any interested person or group of persons in the politics of Akwa Ibom 2023 to totally dismiss the speculations, after all the estimation of the people gains traction because of certain obvious factors too strong to wave off with hands.  For instance, all those, but Ekere, rumoured to be interested in the next dispensation of governorship election are from Uyo (Akwa Ibom North-East) Senatorial District. Even though zoning could not be said to be sacrosanct in the state, the fact that the three Senatorial Districts have taken turns to produce successive governors since 1999 has made zoning a strong factor in the political calculations in the state. And if sequential logic holds sway, chances are glaring that the next governor of the state would come from Uyo axis. The belief that Albert is interested in running for governorship in 2023 stems from the fact that he had nursed the ambition right from the build-up to 2015 elections when he served in the administration of former Governor Godswill Akpabio. Having been Finance Commissioner from 2007 to 2014 he remains the longest serving Commissioner for Finance in the state. In addition to the traditional functions of the Finance commissioner, Akpabio had continued with his predecessor’s, Victor Attah’s, initiative of giving chairman of Inter-ministerial Direct Labour Committee to Commissioner for Finance, a responsibility said to be flowing with milk and honey and advantage of grassroots connectivity. Little wonder, Albert is somehow reckoned with a man-of-the-people perception. Albert was one of the frontline governorship aspirants in PDP, but backed down after being pressured by the then governor to pave way for Emmanuel purportedly to appease controversial gods of zoning in the state. For fear of his apparent growing influence in the politics of the state, his running for the Senate in 2015, which he won and later got another mandate in 2019 for a second term, was considered a damage control measure. With constant oiling of his political machinery, especially at the grassroots, speculations are rife that he would revive his bid for the Akwa Ibom governorship come 2023. Okon, who was first appointed commissioner around the middle of Akpabio’s second term, has served in four different ministries, including Ministry of Finance. He is seen as seriously eyeing the governorship seat. Luke, who gains popularity largely on account of his homeboy outlook that comes on account of having major engagements from childhood around Uyo neighbourhood, is one politician with meteoric rise in the state. From being an aide to Akpabio, the former student union leader, has been a member of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly for two terms, during which he was the Speaker in the second term. He is currently in the House of Representatives, where he chairs the House Committee on Federal Judiciary. By conscious act of offensive and defensive by volunteers and the hiring of those eyeing the next election in the state Inoyo’s name is at the centre-piece of the narrative. The narrative, which is largely brought to public domain through social media and some sensationally-inclined tabloids in Uyo, has polarized the ranks and files of the political class in the state into Inoyo-mania and Inoyo-phobia, snowballing into euphoria and hysteria. The talk is hysteric on the part of those that appeared scared of Inoyo and euphoric with those eagerly mounting effort for Inoyo’s governorship adventure. While the latter group hinges their belief in Inoyo on his apparently sophistication and untainted tract record, which are considered as factors behind his steady rise to the apogee of his career in Exxon Mobil, the former are said to be wary of Inoyo’s unwavering passion for excellence, his high station at workplace and urbane orientation, which might further put paid to penchant for pecuniary disposition in the politics of the state. The rumours surrounding Inoyo’s governorship ambition is not also without some substance to back up. Sunday Independent gathered from impeccable sources that Inoyo had his hands handsomely in launching Emmanuel to Akpabio’s heart. The former Zenith Bank Executive Director, though in topnotch position in the banking industry, was relatively in obscurity until Akpabio appointed him secretary to the Akwa Ibom State government, which culminated in his being elected governor in 2015. The thinking is that if a deal of rub-my-back-and-I-will-in-turn-rub-yours counts to Emmanuel and Inoyo, 2023 governorship would present the former the only but ample chance for reciprocal. Given Emmanuel’s disposition to what he called “professional in politics” it is further assumed that he may have preference for Inoyo, who is a member of the Lagos-based Akwa Ibom Professionals currently led by Udeme Ufot, a renowned advertising professional and Managing Director of SO & U. In fact, his Lagos-based factor is so strong in that all those governing Akwa Ibom since the ill-fated third republic were residing in Lagos before becoming governors. Also, having the same first name with the governor is not also without its own momentum. Another factor swaying perceptive minds to the direction of Inoyo is the fact that he will be due for retirement before the build-up to the 2023 elections commences in full gear. With no permanent home structure in Lagos, those acquainted with his body language are of the view that retiring to the magnificent Hilltop Mansion in Uyo would offer Inoyo honourable valedictory route for a permanent abode in his Nsit Ubium nativity, which he is said to value as his number-one home. Even though he has been attending private and public events in Akwa Ibom long before now, any event attended by Inoyo now is pictured with 2023 governorship. On top of that, there is deliberate projection of the speculated aspiration on social media platform. Tom FredFish, a political-communication strategist, is leading other like minds in not only bringing Inoyo’s people-oriented private initiatives to public glare but in firing salvos to those hurling verbal attacks on the Exxon Mobil top staffer. Again, the Inoyo Toro Foundation, a private brainchild of the Exxon Mobil director, which has been making silence but sustainable contribution to piloting standard of education in Akwa Ibom through award of excellence, training, academic research, innovative enhancement for teachers, has been mentioned with pomp and panache by those angling for Inoyo’s governorship aspiration.  It is in that vein that a panegyric toast offered by Nigeria’s former ambassador to Russia, Chief Assam Assam (SAN) at a reception in honour of Inoyo on April 29, 2018 on account of his promotion at Exxon Mobil, has been given refreshing image of a golden text. Also every public outing of Inoyo, whether official or private, has become photo opportunity for those promoting his guessed 2023 agenda, and with the spontaneity and wildfire speed of the New Media, Inoyo’s handshake with President Muhammadu Buhari, meeting with Senate Standing Committees on Gas, which incidentally is chaired by Albert, numerous award ceremonies, among other public engagements, have uncontrollably become commonplace in the social media and dominates informal discussions in Akwa Ibom. Ironically, those attempting to take Inoyo to pillory are inadvertently placing him on political podium, contributing far more than Inoyo’s fans in launching him to the minds of the people of Akwa Ibom, even beyond other likely governorship hopefuls that they might be sympathetic to their cause. Meanwhile, amidst the groundswell of speculations and postulations, the governor has cleared the air that he is not contemplating getting a third term through surrogate as successor. In an interaction with Mboho Mkparawa Ibibio, a foremost cultural organization, which, in recent time, is coloured more with politics, Emmanuel had uttered: “I usually hear people saying he has anointed someone who will take over from him so that he can be able to manipulate the person to do his bidding after leaving office. I want to assure you that it is not true. As I speak, it is only God who knows who my successor will be. When He presents him, we will support him to also succeed.” The state chapter of the PDP, through its spokesperson, Ini Ememobong, has also distanced itself from the 2023 cheap-talks. In a press release issued on October 17 this year, the party stated that “the discussion of 2023 is still very unripe and immature at this moment, as the second term of Governor Udom Emmanuel is yet to reach even a year.” While appealing to the party faithful to ignore, what he called “devious rumors of endorsements”, Ememobong, whose name is also on the speculated list of governorship aspirants, urged members of the party and its supporters “to instead collaborate with the current administration in the attainment of its completion agenda.” The phobia of who and what regarding the 2023 governorship appears to be an infection that goes round. Given apparent inherent murky nature of politics, coupled with his background in the multinational organization with no-blink-of-an-eye on corporate governance, Inoyo might not be without his own phobia to contend with – politicophobia, the fear of getting into politics. That is why the on-going social conversation is perceived by pundits as a ploy to fly a kite on the part of those projecting Inoyo just as the studied silence of the Nigerian Exxon Mobil helmsman may be an act of reconnaissance than anything else. Would Inoyo live up to the billings of Inoyo-mania and Inoyo-phobia? While the answer lies in the womb of time, the hue and cry over 2023 governorship in Akwa Ibom is sign-posting that if Inoyo throws his hat into the ring it might not be so surprising as his decision not to contest. In event of not running it could be disappointing to both his admirers and adversaries, and some political pundits deduce that it could throw them off balance as long as the 2023 governorship remains the equation for evaluation.