ADO-EKITI – Ekiti people, particularly the women folks, have continued to savour the gains of the just concluded empowerment programme embarked upon by the wife of the state governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi. Tagged Advocacy Tour And Women Empowerment Programme, the event, which took place in sixteen Local Government Areas of the state, afforded the First Lady to interface with women across the council areas, as well as prepare them for greater challenges of governance in the state. The governor’s wife thanked Ekiti women for voting for President Muhammadu Buhari and other contestants on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last general election to ensure that Ekiti remains on the track of progress. In spite of the initial hitch occasioned by the rude interruption of the violent protest by the students of Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE); Mrs Fayemi, no doubt, had touched the lives of hundreds of women and creating awareness about sundry gender issues across the state. Some items distributed to women at the event included cash gifts, grinding machines, sowing machines, hair dryers, cooking gas, coolers and raw foods. Also supported was Mrs Jolaade Osho, a vulnerable 100-year old Mrs Fayemi adopted mother, who became the first lady foster mother when she was abandoned by family. The governor’s wife led an advocacy against Female Genital Mutilation, Teenage Pregnancy, Out of School Girls, Breast Cancer, Child Labour amongst others. Similar gestures were extended to women in Ekiti by the first lady during the first tenure of her husband between 2010-2014 when she midwifed the distribution of 14-seater buses to the various market women groups in the sixteen Local Government areas. The programme was huge success, as practitioners of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in Ekiti State at the flag- off of the campaign at Omuo in Ekiti East Local Government, surrendered their instruments with a vow not to return to the practice considered as a harmful cultural practice. The repentant FGM practitioners also signed a pact with the state government not to return to the practice that had damaged the lives of many female children in the state. Mrs Fayemi, who praised the converts for renouncing the obsolete practice, also presented them with cash gift to assist them in establishing other legitimate businesses. “If you continue to refrain from the practice, the state government will give you more empowerment. The practice is obsolete and I want you to drop it. There many others who are not here among you, go and talk to them as well,” she said. The first lady also promised that the government wouldn’t surrender the war being waged against rape, female genital mutilation, child labour and open defecation that have constituted national shame to the state. Mrs Fayemi revealed that Ekiti was ranked first in open defecation and third in female genital mutilation practices in Nigeria, promising that local FGM practitioners, who are ready to surrender their instruments will be empowered by the state government. She also insisted that rapists and those obstructing justice in the trials of offenders would continue to face the wrath of the law under governor Kayode Fayemi-led administration, through diligent prosecution and conviction. The First Lady disclosed that she embarked on the tour to engage the communities on their problems and to make advocacy on the need to stop the menaces of female genital Mutilation, open defecation, domestic violence against women, child trafficking and rape, that have become rampant in the society. Mrs Fayemi said it was shameful for Ekiti to be leading in female genital Mutilation and open defecation in the country, saying such odious practices must stop. “It is a shameful thing for Ekiti to be ranked third in genital mutilation. This is unacceptable to us. “In open defecation, Ekiti came first in Nigeria. Let us stop the practice, because it endangers our lives. The government will soon provide toilet facilities across the state.” She said as part of her contribution to what Governor Fayemi will do about social security for the elderly, she has added another programme called food for the elderly (Ounje Arugbo) and that a total of 1,000 will benefit monthly. “The essence of this tour is to engage in advocacy, because we need to pay more attention to the health of our women. Those who are of child-bearing age should go to hospital for Medicare. 10,000 delivery packs have been provided, which will be distributed to pregnant women. “We must check our breasts regularly for cancer and if you notice any lump, go to the hospital and not churches or babalawo that won’t help you. “The issue of gender violence is also of concern to us. Please husbands, don’t beat your wives. If you are being beaten by your husbands, please report to the nearest police station because we have a law that prohibits that. Don’t wait until you are killed. “All our girl child and children must be enrolled in schools. We have free education in Ekiti now. Children who get pregnant in schools can stay in school and deliver. “If someone defiled any female child and you come to beg on his behalf, the person will be treated as an accomplice,” she warned. At Ikere and Ado-Ekiti, Mrs Fayemi hinted about the new policy of the government tagged “operation keep girls in school”, which outlawed expulsion of ladies who get pregnant while in school. She stressed the resolve of the Fayemi’s administration to deal decisively with unrepentant genital mutilators. Mrs Fayemi said the unwholesome practice, had brought a lot of sexual damages to women through infectious diseases that destroy body sexual nerve cells, thereby causing marital crises in many homes. She also advised parents and guardians to always monitor the activities of their female children and wards, to reduce the scourge of rape and defilement that are on the increase in the state. Mrs Fayemi said: “We must at all costs stop the menace of female genital mutilation, open defecation, domestic violence against women, child trafficking and rape, defilement and other ill against girl child and women. “The state Gender Based Violence (GBV) and Child right laws have been amended. Punishment for rape is no longer five years jail term but life imprisonment. Whoever makes attempt to beg for the release of a rapist stands being charged for obstruction of justice. “It is not right for teenagers to engage in sexual relationships. That is why parents must monitor their female children in school. But any school girl that gets pregnant, with the new law, will be allowed to continue her study even with the pregnancy and after delivery, she will still be allowed to continue schooling. Our girls must go to school.” She, however, warned women against maltreating or battering their husbands, saying the GVB law would also punish any woman found infringing on the rights ofn any man. “Women should also desist from delivering babies at home or missions, always go to hospitals. You can observe that women are dying of breast cancer. Let us observe ourselves very well, even our husbands have a lot of roles to play in this, they can help us massage the breast and detect the lumps. It had happened like this in the past when men turned out to be our Messiahs,” she added. Fayemi