YENAGOA – After 20 years of dominating the politics of Bayelsa State, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) appears to have been eventually dislodged. The PDP has lost grip on the state. The party capitulated on Saturday, November 16, 2019 and gave way for the All Progressives Congress (APC) to mount the saddle. The APC’s governorship candidate, David Lyon, polled an aggregate of 352,552 votes to defeat the PDP’s candidate, Senator Douye Diri who scored 143,172 votes. They were the two major contenders on who would succeed the outgoing Governor Seriake Dickson of the PDP. The electoral figures show that Lyon won Diri by 209, 308 votes. However, the build-up to the governorship poll was tensed. It set the state on the edge with trepidation as fear of outbreak of violence before, during and after voting increased among the residents. Thiswas due to the volatile nature of elections in Bayelsa State. The state had occupied the unviable position of a major flashpoint in elections. As expected, fear heightened during the election week when on November 11, a gang of gunmen attacked and killed two policemen at Otuogidi community in Ogbia Local Government Area. The hoodlums, who were said to be in search of guns to use in the election, took the slain officers’ bodies away. Their death coincided with the deployment of 32,000 policemen for the poll led by a Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Anthony Ogbizi. The incident was closely followed by the violent disruption of the PDP campaign rally at Nembe-Ogbolomabiri, Nembe Local Government Area by gunmen who fired bullets into the King Koko Square venue of the event. Leaders of the party, including Dickson and Emmanuel Ogidi, Vice President, South-South zone, accused the APC of masterminding the attack. The heavy deployment of security forces, including the Nigerian Army, Navy and Air Force on election day made the exercise looked like a war. The entire voting process was militarised. Dickson alleged that the Federal Government backed the APC thugs with the military to rig the election in favour of the party. In particular, the governor said that the GOC 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Gen. Jamil Sarham, despite his redeployment to the Nigerian Defence Academy, ensured that he delivered Bayelsa State to the desperate Federal Government and the APC whether people voted or not. He said, “Sarham has been transferred to the Nigerian Defence Academy as Commandant but he stayed back to supervise the take over Bayelsa by the APC. “I wonder what lessons he (Sarham) will be giving to those young cadet officers. Gen Sarham has defied his transfer order and has stayed back to complete his mission of rigging Bayelsa for the APC.” But, the Acting Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Major Charles Ekeocha, challenged the governor to provide evidence of his claim. Ekeocha said, “If you are in Bayelsa, did you see the GOC there? But, the thing is, let the person tender evidence so that you will know whether to agree or not to agree.” But, beyond the perceived overwhelming security support received by the APC, schools of thought believe that a number of incontrovertible factors also contributed to the downfall of the PDP in Bayelsa State. Those who believe in this school of thought, cited, for instance, that the overbearing attitude of Dickson in the build-up to the primary election to elect the PDP’s governorship candidate on September 3 was believed to be most potent knife that caused divisions in the party. He had knocked off other interests in the PDP to pave the way for his preferred choice, Diri. He pushed his luck of producing a candidate too far even to the point of undermining the position of former President Goodluck Jonathan and the ‘wise counsel’ of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, both of whom wanted the former Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Timi Alaibe, to lead the party’s team to the election. To stamp his authority over the process, the governor and his Restoration Caucus of the PDP came up with three names, Talford Ongolo, Chief of Staff, Government House; Kemela Okara, Secretary to the State Government, and Diri, as Dickson’s unchallengeable preferences for the ticket of the party. Dickson explained that “the chosen three” were a divine product of three days of fasting and prayer held at the Ecumenical Centre, Igbogene, Yenagoa. Against all norms of political negotiation and compromise, Dickson told whoever cared to listen that he could not be “a bystander” in the process to elect his successor in February 2020. He vowed in August that he would not support any aspirant outside his Restoration Group in the PDP. Yet, political observers were aware that Alaibe, the former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), was not a member of Dickson’s restoration caucus. Dickson, who made the vow while inaugurating what he termed the Restoration Governorship Primary Election Committee in Government House, Yenagoa, rationalised that supporting any aspirant of the PDP outside the restoration group was one heavy moral burden that he was not prepared to carry. According to him, his upbringing and values, which place emphasis on the reward for the sacrifice of loyalty and steadfastness, would not allow him to turn his back on those who stood by him throughout his years as leader of the party. He also hinged his decision to support a restoration aspirant on the imperative of “continuity, effective service delivery, and commitment of restoration caucus to the socio-economic growth of the state.” He dismissed those accusing him of refusal to support some aspirant, insisting that it was his right to decide who to back in the PDP’s primary poll. Dickson declared, “We have agreed to elect a candidate for our party from the restoration team. I will fail in my responsibilities and values if I abandon those who have supported me, who have been through thick and thin with me. “The way I was brought up, it is support for support and loyalty for loyalty. You have to be on board on this for the restoration team. My support will go to a loyal, committed member of the Restoration team. Not to do so will leave a very heavy moral burden in my heart which I am not prepared to bear.” It was based on this singular decision of the governor that Diri emerged the PDP’s candidate. But it was one decision that offended the sensibilities of many PDP stakeholders and sympathisers. Many Bayelsa stakeholders, including PDP members believe that Diri is not popular but the fact that he was forced on the party by the governor made his choice much more difficult for the people to choose on election day. It was also gathered that Governor Dickson’s dilly-dallying over his choice aspirant in the September 3, 2019 primary election of the PDP had earlier thrown key stakeholders and delegates of the party into quandary. The governor, who had all along kept his choice close to his chest, was said to have sent out signals that Senator Diri was the anointed one among the 21 aspirants that picked the party’s nomination forms for the primary. He was said to have directed some of his associates to work toward delivering  Diri as the party’s governorship candidate for the November 16 election. But, few days earlier, the tide was said to have turned against Diri with the immediate past Secretary to the State Government, Barr. Kemela Okara, who was said to be the favoured one. This followed rumours that the governor had changed his mind on Diri. Consequently, there was jubilation at the Biogbolo campaign headquarters of Okara when information filtered in that Dickson had decided to back him. This came at a time an associate of the governor, Senator Inatimi Rufus-Spiff, also emerged as the Director-General of his campaign organisation. While it is believed that Diri, a former Yenagoa/Kolokuma-Opokuma Federal Constituency Reps member, was not popular enough to retain the governorship seat for the PDP in the election, he was also said not to enjoy the support of key stakeholders in the party. Some of them recalled that Diri almost lost the Bayelsa Central Senatorial District election in March this year having lost in his own Kolokuma/Opokuma local government area. He was reportedly saved by votes from Yenagoa and Southern Ijaw councils. Dickson was said to have been advised to reconsider his support as Diri could turn out to be a hard sell for the party in the governorship election as well as Okara, whose background as an associate of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and being a former governorship candidate of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) in Bayelsa in 2012 had raised the suspicion that his loyalty to the party cannot be trusted. Some of the governor’s close associates were said to have given him the appropriate feedback based on discreet polls conducted and endorsed by him to ascertain the true frontrunners in the governorship race. A known philanthropist and former chairman of the state’s Board of Internal Revenue, Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei, was said to have emerged as the most favoured aspirant among party members, the youths and some of the elite in the state. Ayawei was also said to have the backing of the governor. He reportedly waited for the right signal from Dickson before joining the race at the last minute. But Ayawei’s strength is his popularity across the state and his loyalty to the party, which endeared him to the stakeholders, who also recalled his commendable role during the impeachment saga of the former governor, the late Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, in 2005. The former state legislator and Commissioner for Housing was among five lawmakers that refused to append their signatures to impeach Alamieyeseigha. PDP members in the state believe that a man without any serious political baggage like Ayawei would be ideal to fly the party’s flag. Alaibe was the next favoured aspirant among stakeholders after Ayawei, while Diri and Okara trailed the duo in terms of popularity within the PDP and across the state. Apart from Alaibe, the three other aspirants were members of Dickson’s strong Restoration Caucus in the PDP, from which he says his successor must emerge. Without his input and support, it was practically impossible for any of the aspirants to pick the party’s sole ticket. Former President Goodluck Jonathan was said not to be comfortable with Dickson’s insistence on either Diri or Okara. The Nigerian leader was said to have asked the governor to reconsider his position in the larger interest of the party in order not to create room for the opposition to take over governance of the state. A party delegate, while faulting Dickson’s support for either of the duo, said none of the two aspirants was as popular as Ayawei to fly the party’s flag in the governorship election. The delegate had warned that if the governor muscled his way through to produce one of the two, the party stood the risk of losing the election and the state to the opposition. “What is happening in our party in Bayelsa is the result of the governor’s inability to groom a successor after almost eight years in office. Unfortunately, he is still undecided on who to back just a few days to the primary. There is confusion everywhere as the delegates are yet to get a clear signal on whom to vote for on that day. “But if the governor settles for an unpopular aspirant as being speculated, most of the delegates might shock him as they are saying they would vote according to their conscience. The interest of the state and our party is more paramount to us at this point time. “I doubt if Governor Dickson would have his way if his choice is not popular or acceptable to majority of the party members. Bayelsa is a PDP state and we would not make the mistake of giving it away to the opposition because of one man’s interest. “Politics is about consensus building and negotiation. Imposition is a dangerous gambit and the governor has vowed not to impose a candidate on the party,” the party delegate had warned before the party primary. Another cause for concern for stakeholders before the primary was how to prune the number of aspirants in order not to cause serious disaffection within the party. Concerned about the development, the governor was to have asked some of them, particularly aspirants from the Southern Ijaw local government area, to harmonise their interest and produce a unified aspirant. It was also learnt that some of the aspirants rejected the move to make them stand down, with one of the frontliners being offered the senatorial seat currently occupied by Diri to make it easier for the governor’s choice to emerge as the party’s candidate. Also, the refusal of Dickson to avoid the perils of proud leadership has been blamed for the defeat of the PDP in last Saturday’s governorship election. Many PDP stakeholders said Dickson would have escaped the perilous trap if he had heeded the advice of former President Jonathan and other elders in the state to support the governorship ambition of Alaibe, instead of Diri. They said Dickson’s decision to back Diri caused mass defection from PDP to the APC. Most of those who defected were supporters of Jonathan and Alaibe. For instance, the defection of the former deputy governor, Peremobowei Ebebe, to APC was instrumental to the victory of the party in Ekeremor Local Government Area. It was equally gathered that one of the major reasons why Dickson refused to back Alaibe, who was the most popular candidate in the PDP primary, was because Alaibe refused to back his senatorial ambition in 2006, but rather chose Senator Heineken Lopobori. A PDP chieftain, who pleaded anonymity, said that the defeat of PDP became imminent after Dickson foisted Diri as the governorship candidate without recourse to the sensitivity of Jonathan, who warned him of the perils of his choice. “We saw the defeat of our party, PDP, coming,” the chieftain said. Governor Dickson felt he has the capacity to deliver PDP alone. So, others merely allowed him to satisfy his wish. Yes, the man said he could do it alone. Dickson has crashed the party. We warned him. Even President Jonathan warned him. He was not willing to look at the alternative options that were available and as far as he was concerned he had the capacity to win and we have all seen the result.” In Ogbia, where President Jonathan hails from, PDP lost woefully not because the people hate the party, but they wanted to settle political scores with Dickson who they accused of disrespecting his benefactor. In Southern Ijaw, a major oil-producing area and where Lyon hails from, the people took the election as a special project to deliver their son in spite of Dickson’s last-minute decision to make their kinsman, Monday Olobo, Speaker of the State House of Assembly. Voters in Southern Ijaw with 165,449 registered voters said that they preferred governor to the position of speaker, which Dickson had offered them in September. Another Bayelsa PDP leader said another factor that hindered PDP was that APC leaders used security operatives to prevent PDP chieftains who were reckoned to be strong in certain areas from freely moving around during and after the polls. Though PDP was widely rated to win the state capital, it lost it to APC because of deep-seated frenzy against the incumbent administration. “In areas where APC leaders knew that PDP was strong or where they will rather use the money to influence the process, security men were deployed to monitor PDP members and pin them down,” he said. “In Agudama-Epiye, three security teams were deployed to a PDP chieftain’s residence and was prevented from stepping out till after the election. He was tactically under house arrest. Even in Yenagoa which people had predicted that PDP would win, it lost to Lyon.” An associate of Mr. Gideon Ekeuwei, who was a former Secretary to Bayelsa State Government in the administration of Governor Timipre Sylva, told reporters that he narrowly escaped being arrested by the military, which was deployed to Azuzuama community to arrest him and other PDP chieftains. “When I arrived Azuzuama, materials had not arrived,” he narrated. He said he was waiting for materials when he was informed to leave, that a gunboat was coming to pick up leaders of PDP. Apart from that, the governor’s controversial civil service reforms that lasted about five years caused significant damage to the political fortunes of the PDP and the goodwill his administration had hitherto enjoyed. During the reforms, civil servants and pensioners were owned several months of salaries and subjected to what seemed unending verifications. In February 2016, pensioners were attacked by suspected hired thugs in front of Government House, Yenagoa, for having the audacity to peacefully protest against non-payment of their pension entitlements by the Dickson-led administration. The retired civil servants, led by the then caretaker committee chairman of the state branch of National Union of Pensioners, Elder Bodi Amaran, received the beating of their lives with many of them critically injured for taking to the streets to demand payment of over five-month pension arrears and two years of unpaid gratuities. Another issue that diminished the administration’s goodwill was the reform carried out at the state-owned Niger Delta University in Amassoma, which resulted in a sustained protest by the community people. A few lives were lost after armed policemen deployed in the community clashed with the demonstrators. The reform occasioned over 100 per cent increase in fees in the university, which made things difficult s for many parents and students. A similar situation was recorded in other higher institutions of learning operated by the state government under Dickson. Although the government explained that the reform initiative was aimed at reducing the monthly wage bill and over bloated workforce and general sanitisation of the civil service, the hunger and pain experienced by many civil servants may have made the objectives of the exercises meaningless and they waited for November to “punish” the PDP. Also, the governor’s leadership style which many describe as “combative, aggressive and unaccommodating of alternative views in governance process of the state”, may have also contributed to the defeat of the PDP at the poll. It is believed that Dickson’s lack of respect for the opinions of others affected the party’s unity. This, it was argued, was responsible for the massive defections that hit the party, especially by political appointees, ahead of the election. There were reports that many political aides who have remained in the government only did so just to receive salaries and not to “offend” the governor. Dickson may have become the first governor of Bayelsa to serve two tenures of eight years complete, but it would also be on record that it was under his leadership that the PDP lost power to the opposition. The APC, under the leadership of the current Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, started making inroads in Bayelsa State with the 2015 general elections. It won a seat (Brass Constituency 1) in the state House of Assembly. The party went ahead to consolidate its presence with the 2019 general elections, winning four seats in the Assembly, two seats in the House of Representatives and one seat in the Senate. Nevertheless, another school of thought believed that the element of federal might also eroded the influence of the PDP. Those who share this sentiment point to the role of the former governor of the state, Sylva, in the dislodgment of his former party in the state. Sylva is believed to have imposed Lyon on the APC to the detriment of other aspirants like Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, who many thought would clinch the party’s governorship ticket. Sylva, many argue, was the anchor of the heavy military presence in the election environment on November 16. He, as the leader of the APC in Bayelsa had a duty to ensure the takeover of the state from the PDP. It has also been observed that the “Lyon factor”, which is hinged on his philanthropy, humility and compassion, also gave a lot of impetus to the APC’s electoral victory over the PDP. His residence at Igbogene, near the state capital, and one of the largest towns in Yenagoa Local Government Area, had always been “a place of succour” to many a needy. His disposition to render help had counted in his favour. As soon as he picked the APC’s ticket, Lyon’s name became a sing-song on the lips of men, women, youths, old and young across the eight local government areas of the state. But, what appeared to have worked against the PDP in the entire process was the fact that the people had become tired of the party after holding sway for 20 years. Speaking on victory of the APC, Sylva said that “poor performance by the Bayelsa State government under Governor Dickson made it easy for the APC to win the poll. He said: “It’s been a very hectic week but I will like to bring in this Eritrean proverb, that if you marry a wife very well, you will be blessed with another wife. “Governor Dickson, unfortunately made our job very easy because he married the wife very badly. Of course this proverb pre-supposes that if you marry a wife badly, you will not get another wife. “So, he did not marry the state very well, so the state roundly rejected him.”