Lagos – The Associate Director, strategy and economic management Consulting, KPMG Nigeria, Olusegun Zacheus, has urged the Federal Government of Nigeria to ramp up its innovation strategies if the country must grow. Zacheus made the call as guest lecturer at the 2019 Nigeria-Britain Association 50th anniversary lecture in honour of the founding fathers of the association, Mr Akintola Williams in Lagos recently. He said innovation is the key to unlocking productivity, and productivity will drive economic growth, and for us to unlock productivity Nigeria must adopt innovation. “If Nigeria wants to reach 6% – 7% economic growth it must unlock the productivity issue, and for us to unlock productivity innovation must be our mainstay as a nation. Productivity is increasing the number of output per unit. He said for every naira spent on innovation yields 100% return. “Investing in innovation will yield disproportionate measure of return on investment. For us to move from 2% to 6 economic growths you need massive investment in innovation. When we talk about innovative country in Africa Nigeria is nowhere to be found. We talk of South Africa, Kenya Mauritius and we call ourselves the giant of Africa” Zacheus noted that one of the major challenge of Nigeria as a nation is productivity constraint. Once productivity improves, economy has no choice but to grow. Once productivity improves jobs must be created; once productivity improves capital will find its way into the economy, adding that for us to tackle it government leaders must make conscious effort to adopt innovation. “There is a direct correlation between innovation and productivity’. He described innovation as simply a change in process by which organisation or anyone transform labour, his people, capital into products and services for greater value. “Innovation is the way we improve on doing things. Innovation is to improve on the way of doing thing that will add more value to it”. He lamented that while Nigeria is battling with basic problem of unemployment, poverty, children out of school, poor health care, the rest of the world has gone to the next level called the 4th industrial revolution. “In this context we are talking about technology rule; we are talking about block chain; we are talking about digital; we are talking about geosciences; we are talking about drones, things that are supposed to make life better, but here we are talking about Nigeria that is still dealing with the basic and elementary things life. “What we are saying is that Nigeria may be left behind if certain things are not done, and one of those empirical things that must be encouraged is innovation. Innovation is not about entrepreneurship, it is the life blood for success in Nigeria over the next five years. If we do not adopt innovation our situation may get worse, he submitted.” Speaking earlier, Mr Shola Tinubu President of the Nigeria Britain Association (N-BA) said the lecture was part of activities to mark the 50th anniversary of the association. We have moved the annual lecture to this time for to be able to celebrate our 50th anniversary with this lecture. The lecture is what we do every year in honour of our patron, Mr Akintola William who attained 100 years this year. The occasion also presented opportunity to honour one of the long standing members of the association, Chief Olabintan Famutimi whose investiture as Vice President of the association crowned the occasion. In response, Famutimi promised to continue to support the association to build on the long existed relationship.