KADUNA – A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Hope for the Village Child Foundation based in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna state has been commended for its exceptional show of love and support to persons living with disabilities. The commendation followed the presentation of empowerment items and materials such as a wheelchair, walking crutches, support aides (items for persons with wickets), grinding machines, hairdryers and some financial stipends to some people with various degrees of disability. Some of the beneficiaries at the presentation ceremony included children with physical and mental disabilities and adults with mobility challenges. The event, which took place at the premises of Hope for the Village Child Foundation situated along the Kaduna-Kafanchan highway saw an elated Mercy Okoh from Enugu state receiving a wheelchair from the Director of the Centre, Reverend Sister Rita Schwazenegar, fondly addressed as “Sister Ladidi” by residents of the various communities. Presenting the wheelchair to Mercy Okoh, the Director of the centre enjoined the parents to see the wheelchair, as a donation to the centre through the Lilian Foundation via the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs, to the Hope for the Village Child Foundation, as a way of supporting the family and making the movement of Mercy, easy on her parents. Receiving the wheelchair on behalf of his daughter, Mr. John Okoh expressed his gratitude to the Hope for the Village Child Foundation and its director for the immense love and support shown to his children, both of whom have disability challenges. In an emotion-laden voice, Mr. Okoh said: “if not for this foundation that has shown me so much love, I do not know how myself and my wife would have coped with taking care of these two beautiful girls God blessed us with. Despite their challenges, we love them and God has used the Hope for the Village Child Foundation to assist us with their medical treatment all these years. Now, they have given Mercy a wheelchair to ease her movement. And in addition, we are today being presented with this grinding machine as a way of empowerment which would further assist us in catering for Mercy and Blessing.”