Engr. Akin- George Fashola, Director, Lagos State Vehicle Inspection Services, obtained a double Bachelor’s Degree in Mechanical Engineering and Vehicle/Industrial Design from the Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, Illinois USA in 1995. He also holds a Msc in Automotive Engineering Design obtained in 1998 from Coventry University, England. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on the activities of VIO officials in Lagos and their roles in effective transport management in the state. Excerpts: Former governor of Akinwunmi Ambode placed a permanent ban on the activities of VIO officials in Lagos, but they have been returned by the incumbent governor. What informed his decision to bring back your men on Lagos roads? The initial ban, I believe by the former governor was to allow VIS as an organisation to go back and reassess itself on how they pursue their operations in a megacity like Lagos. During that time, we went back to look inwards and look at how we can pursue our statutory duties in line with global best practices. I think it was at that point that we came to the realisation that technology is one of the ways we can do it. Having said that however, technology has its limitations although it affords you access to a lot of things you can’t do before. It gives better efficiency and also gives a free and fair process for everyone across boards. With the new government, we had a situation where it was virtually impossible for technology to address some aspect of traffic regulations. Technology cannot address the issue of driving a rickety vehicle on the road. I think what most people forgot during the period was told to stay off the roads was that it is still your civic responsibility as a vehicle owner to keep your vehicle in proper order until you get the prescribed particulars that you are supposed to get. A lot of people didn’t take that seriously. Some did it, some didn’t do it. We now have a situation where we have a lot of very bad vehicles on the road. But technology cannot remove these vehicles on the roads, so we have to physically remove them. That is what VIS is back to do on the roads. Yes, we have embraced technology but we still need that human interaction to physically remove vehicles that are not compliant with state regulations. These are vehicles that are very smoky; their emissions they emit are beyond reasonable levels; those driving without plate numbers which is not allowed; covering of plate numbers which is also not allowed, cracked windscreens, no headlights, broken taillights and vehicles that are in horrible conditions. That is why we are back on the roads. We are very mindful of the fact that we have this Automatic Number Plate Recognition camera, which we have deployed around the state. It is a combination of fixed camera and also mobile cameras. If you see any of our vehicles, they have those cameras on it. So, those things do the vehicular documentations that we used to do before. So, we don’t necessarily stop someone on the road and say ‘Can I see your documents?’ You can and we do occasionally, but generally we don’t. The machine does that and it does it better, faster and more accurately. As someone who has years of professional experience in the automobile industry abroad, what is the difference between how vehicle inspections officers operate in the western countries and here? There is no difference in the technical aspect or the process, where the difference lies is in the compliance. The level of compliance with our own citizens is lower compared to the other countries. I think the reason for that can be attributed to the fact that we don’t have drivers’ education in schools. It is not something that is taught in schools. If you teach students be it in primary or secondary schools that as you grow up, driving and taking proper care of your vehicles are part of your civic responsibilities and also protects your own life, they will examine their heads that ‘ I need to do this’. But it’s not part of our curriculum here in this part of the world. In abroad, it is part of the education system. The more you know about it, the more reformed you are. But if you don’t know something, you can’t give what you don’t know.  A lot of times people come here and say things like ‘I don’t know I am supposed to have this documents or that in my vehicle’. Is having your mobile numbers on your website part of the reforms that took place before you were asked to return to the roads? We have always done that. It has always been a part of VIS. The Director of VIS, the Area Commanders, the Heads of Divisions, the Zonal Heads, we have all their details, including all their telephone numbers on our website. So, you can call anytime you have an issue, questions or clarifications to make. As the Director of VIS, you can call me directly. We’ve always believed in VIS that direct communication shouldn’t be limited to in-house; it should also be in the public because we relate more with the public than we relate in-house. Many Lagosians believe that VIS is a revenue generating agency and that your officials have been given targets; which explains why they arrest vehicles and list numerous offences so as to impose fines. What is your take on this? The fact of the matter is VIS is not a revenue generating agency.  But as a consequence of what we do, we generate money for the state. Now, you will agree with me that if you do not break the law, there is nothing I want to fine you for. Like I said, as a consequence of people flouting the laid down rules; that is where the fine comes from. If you do what you are supposed to do, there is nothing I can fine you for. So, VIS is not set up to generate revenue unless you break a law. So, if Lagosians don’t break the law, then VIS will not generate any revenue.  That is my simple answer to that. We are not after revenue generation. It is as a result of what people do and that is where the revenue comes. If you obey the rules and regulations, nobody will fine you for anything. A video surfaced last week where some VIO officials were fighting with policemen on who should control traffic in Surulere area of Lagos. What are you doing to ensure a seamless working operation between your officials and other sister agencies involved in traffic operations? Yes, I saw that video though I was misrepresented. We have a very good and cordial relationship with other sister agencies in terms of traffic regulations. Once in a while, differences occur but I want the public to know that we have channels that address issues and these channels are always open. We have a cordial relationship with the police, LASTMA and FRSC. When an issue like that comes up, it is not to blow it out of proportion; it is to handle it in-house as professionals. But I can assure you that we’ve sorted out the matter. There is also the allegation that all Lagos VIS officials are from the South- West. Do you have people from other parts of the country in your agency? Of course, we have non-indigenes. We have quite a number of non-indigenes but I don’t know how to go ahead and address that issue. By virtue of Lagos state being what it is, that is not even possible because there are all kinds of people here. So, any indication to that effect is false. You cannot have a melting point like Lagos here with different tribes and ethnic backgrounds here and say it is only Yorubas that are officials of VIS. It is not true. How many percentage young graduates do you have because there is this allegation that most officials of Lagos VIS are the same old men who are in service before the former governor placed the ban? That is not true. We have a mix of experienced hands and young hands. You will agree with me that the younger you are, the more you need to learn from experienced hands. There’s a process in place that younger ones need to learn and appreciate the experienced ones here. So, it’s a mixture of both that you see on the roads; youthful exuberance is needed but there has to be some people who will maintain some level of composure and professionalism; teach the younger ones how to operate within the framework of the agency. The framework of the Sanwo- Olu administration is premised on  T.H.E.M.E.S. The T stands for Traffic Management and Transportation. How is VIS cooperating with the governor in ensuring effective traffic management system in the state? In line with the governor’s directive on effective traffic management, we cooperate with sister agencies to try and alleviate traffic where we find one. I’m not sure a lot of people have seen it but we do control traffic when we have the opportunity to do so. We are cognisance of the fact that traffic right now in Lagos state is a big priority. So, we tend not to operate where traffic is much. When we see that traffic is heavy in a particular area, we leave that area so that the free flow can go on. At the same time, we still have to do our statutory responsibility in terms of getting bad, rickety vehicles off the roads. Many Lagosians have also complained that they are always afraid when they sight VIO officials on the road while others say they suffer high blood pressure. What are you doing to make the agency a people-friendly one? That’s true; I’ve heard people say they are usually afraid when they sight VIO officials. My own simple criterion is, you don’t need to fear VIO. The only fear that you have of VIO is that you yourself know that there is something that you haven’t done, that you should have done. If I have done what I am supposed to do, there is nothing a VIO officer can do to me.  If they do, you can call my number personally at any given time and I will address the matter. The fact is, you don’t have any business with anybody that has not flouted the law. If citizens have complied with the laid down rules and regulations of the state, then VIO officials doesn’t have a problem with them. So, if any of our officer is going against that regulation, citizens are free to either report them to me or any of the Area Commanders or Zonal heads. There is a channel that takes care of that problem. What is your message to Lagosians? We are in the ember months. I just want to appeal to everybody to be careful on the roads. It is not how fast they get there; it is that you get there. What VIS is trying to preach is not for our own good, but for your own good. If you keep your vehicle in shape, you will be the one to enjoy the benefit because I am not the one that is riding it but you that owns the car. If something happens, it doesn’t bounce back on me, it bounced back on you and because the road is a shared asset between everybody; that is why we just have to ensure that everybody does their own bit. If it was a private road that belongs to you alone, we will have no business with it.