All is now set for the forthcoming Zenith Tech Fair billed to hold on Wednesday, November 27, 2019 in Lagos. Themed: ‘Future Forward’ and powered by Zenith Bank Plc, the event would cover conversations and exhibitions in emerging technologies, as well as a Hackathon to identify and finance innovative startups. Conceived in the mold of global technological events such as the CES and EmTech Asia, the fair will showcase leading technology innovations that cut across different aspects of life such as Artificial Intelligence, Quantum Computing, Machine Learning, Blockchain, Robotics, Big Data, FinTech, Augmented Reality, Data Analytics, 5G and Communication Technologies, among others. Speaking on the initiative, Mr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu, the Group Managing Director, Zenith Bank Plc, noted that the event was part of the bank’s efforts to align and key into new technologies that provide innovative solutions to customers’ numerous financial challenges. According to him, “In today’s fast-changing world, we know that our customers need to perform easy, fast and secure financial transactions, wherever, whenever and however. So we need to go ‘future forward’ to provide banking services using cutting-edge technologies and seamless processes in the best interest of our customers.” The discussions at the Zenith Tech Fair would be handled by captains of industries and top industry experts. Some of the dignitaries and industry experts that would keynote at the event includes the Founder and Chairman, Zenith Bank Plc, Mr. Jim Ovia (CON); Country Director, Google Nigeria, Juliet Ehimuan-Chiazor; Country Manager, Microsoft Nigeria, Akin Binuso; Managing Director, Huawei Technologies Nigeria, Eric Zhang; and Country Managing Director, Oracle Nigeria, Adebayo Sanni; amongst others. The discussions and seminars will be supported by four supersessions / master classes to drill down and offer participants a hands-on experience with the technologies. The event would be hosted by Ovia, who would also speak on “Catalysing Disruptive Innovation through Youth Empowerment,” as part of his efforts through the Jim Ovia Foundation to empower the Nigerian Youths through ICT. The lineup of exhibitors includes Google, Oracle, IBM, Microsoft, Visa, HP, Apple, Mercedes, and many others. The exhibitors would be showcasing some of their most innovative solutions to the Nigeria public. No fewer than 2, 000 participants, 50 exhibitors, and 400 developers had signed up to attend the Conference and Hackathon. The Hackathon tagged “Zenathon”, is supported by IBM, Google, Mastercard and others. It is one of the largest of its kind in Nigeria and would give opportunity to developers, growth hackers, and business experts to compete for the cash prizes, incubation and acceleration by Zenith Bank.