Prince Okakuro Monday Whiskey is a former Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Media and Publicity to the pioneer Executive Chairman, Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) and currently the National Director, Media and Publicity, Host Communities of Nigeria (HOSCON). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he x-rays the Niger Delta challenges and the crisis that has engulfed the region following the decision of the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Godswill Akpabio, to set up an Interim Management Committee for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Excerpts: It has been alleged that some forces want to scuttle the recent forensic auditing of the NDDC instituted by President Muhammadu Buhari. What is your take on that? The proposed forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) is a task that must be done thoroughly and should be daring, if the Federal Government wants to get the root cause of the multi-billion naira contracts scam that has occurred in the agency in the past 19 years of its existence. I am not unmindful of the antics of some politically influential forces to scuttle the forensic audit, but such forces should realise that the outcome of their inaction will be so devastating as various groups and well placed individuals in the region are waiting anxious for such persons to take their first step and we will help them to take the second step of exposing all their hiding agenda. The Niger Delta region is happy with President Muhammadu Buhari’s bold initiative to actually find out what has happened to the multibillion naira allocations that the NDDC has received in the past 19 years and the Host Communities of Nigeria (HOSCON) will do anything within the confine of the law to ensure that the presidential decision is carried out to the letter. The president must put his foot on the ground to ensure that his directives are not only carried out, they should be seen to be carried out. How do you see the situation where the president forwarded a list of the new NDDC Board to the Senate, who have now been cleared by the Senate and the Minister of the Niger Delta appointed an Interim Management Board of the same agency few hours after? The composition of a three-member interim committee after the president had already forwarded names of board nominees to the National Assembly is illegal and remains illegal, the screening and confirmation of the presidential nominees for the NDDC Board has only shown that the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Godswill Akpabio, was swimming against the tide and except he urgently retraces his steps, very many groups and individuals in the Niger Delta region may be forced into a long drawn media and legal battles as the decision to set up the kangaroo three-member interim committee does not have the blessings of the critical stakeholders of the Niger Delta project. The Niger Delta Region can no longer seat aloof while regional interests and presidential decisions that will bring people-oriented programmes and human capital development are being scuttled by some few individuals and government appointees because of selfish interests. Niger Delta regional interest supersedes any other individual or group interest in the region. It is now clear to the Federal Government that it is only the presidency that can control NDDC and other sensitive Federal Government agencies saddled with the responsibilities of fast tracking socio-economic and infrastructural transformation of the rich oil and gas region of the country. What is your take on the allegation that Niger Delta Minister, Godswill Akpabio, Senator Omo-Agege and Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi are involved in power play that may adversely affect the running the NDDC under its new board and interim management? The three mentioned actors in your questions are all well placed sons of the Niger Delta Region, whose activities can and should bring rapid socio-economic development and infrastructural transformation to the region. So, I do not see any tangible reasons for any interplay or wrangling that should affect the sole aims and objectives of why they were elected or appointed to serve in this government. I will want to advise that if there is any power play or wrangling, it should be for good and anything short of that will be resisted by our people. They should bury their differences, if any at all, and work for regional growth and cohesion, they should use their God’s given positions to attract development and work for greater and acceptability of the political ideology of the All Progressive Congress (APC) as their action and inaction are capable of positively or negatively affecting the APC’s political fortune in the region. Do you think that the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) is still relevant considering the fact that most of its recommendations contained in the 16-Point Agenda to the Federal Government have not been implemented? PANDEF is a pressure group put in place by some notable Niger Delta sons and daughters to advocate for regional rights. So, the issue of whether is still relevant or not should not arise as the propagators and initiators of the group have their aims and objectives while the group was set up. PANDEF, like many other Niger Delta pressure groups, has paid her dues by effectively propagating development ideology and regional cohesion of the region. On the PANDEF 16-Point Agenda, it is only the Federal Government that should speak on whether they have been implemented or not. But, as a critical stakeholder, I think the PANDEF’s16- Point Agenda was germane that the Federal Government should look into. On youth empowerment, what should the Niger Delta states do to ensure that jobless youths in the region are off the streets? The term ‘empowerment’, according to Wikipedia, refers to measures designed to increase the degree of autonomy and self-determination in people and in communities in order to enable them to represent their interests in a responsible and self-determined way, acting on their own authority. So, flowing from this modest definition of the term empowerment, Niger Delta states should put in place empowerment programmes that can be self-sustaining and self-determine without political colourations. Niger Delta state governors should know that taking off more of their youths from the streets will enhance peace, and in the long run, will help in the socio-economic transformation of their respective states. Funds for empowerment programmes and skills acquisition for youth groups should be professionally tracked so that they do not end up in private pockets. How do you see the Supreme Court decision on the 2019 presidential election petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Atiku Abubakar? I am not a professional lawyer. But, as a Nigerian, the Supreme Court of the land, as the name implies, is the highest court of the land. So, any decision taking by such court remains binding on all Nigerians. From the layman’s perspective, I think what is important now is for all to join hands with the government of the day and move our dear nation forward. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar fought gallantly using the instrumentality of the law and now that the Supreme Court decided otherwise, he should gallantly accept defeat and join hands with President Muhammadu Buhari to move our nation forward.