LAGOS – When Cinderella stunned the television audience in a Greek folk tale written in French by Charles Perrault in 1697, little did the character ‘Cinderella’ knew that her story of what we can call ‘grass to grace’ in this part of the world and rising from unknown to become the queen, would be cited as a big illustration today. That could be the story of Akwa Starlets, the newly promoted and hitherto unknown side from Akwa Ibom State. It might be too early to start any reasonable debate on the fortunes of clubs in the season. This argument on timeliness of the debate has every right to stand tall in this circumstance because instances abound of clubs that started the season well but had to resort to fighting against relegation at the tail end of the season. For instance and without going far, Ikorodu United and Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM) started their maiden campaign in the NPFL a couple of seasons ago very well and at a point, the two clubs were among the frontrunners. But towards the end of the season, both clubs found themselves reeling on the floor of relegation with Ikorodu United finally making detour to the Nigerian National League (NNL) while the ‘Olukoya Boys’ survived and went ahead to qualify for the CAF Champions League the following season. But be that as it may, it equally should be borne in mind that few clubs have gone ahead to win the league in the season they were promoted to the topflight. Nottingham Forest romped to the old First Division title just one season they reached the top-flight having secured automatic promotion from the old Division Two the previous May in one of football’s greatest fairy tales. Ipswich Town were in Division Three South when coach Alf Ramsey took charge in 1955 and so began an incredible climb up the leagues. They gained promotion to the second tier in 1957 before winning the Division Two title in 1961 and if that wasn’t enough, in their first season in the top division, they won the league Championship at the first attempt While Akwa Starlets will be hoping to sustain their giant-killing form to remain as a contender for the Cinderella comparison, care must be taking not to place the players under heavy expectations that could affect their psyche. Also, while it will be difficult to give Akwa Starlets any realistic chance as some have said that their performance so far could be a flash in the pan, one unique thing about the team is their style of play. This goes to lend weight to the popular adage that ‘The Taste of the Pudding is in the Eating’. They have this cohesion hardly seen in a debutant and watching them play elicits the feeling of a team, which though has no real known name but compensated with good understanding and resilience. Watching Akwa Starlets play reminds of the Greek team of 2004, which stunned Europe and the world with their fairy tale run to that year’s European Championship glory, beating the Luis Figo-inspired hosts, Portugal, twice in the opening game and the final. Before that year’s championship, Greece, on record, have never won any match at a major championship and entered the competition as complete outsiders. But for seven players in that squad, all the players were sourced from home. The team had their strengths in compactness and understanding, which they used to dump all-comers to the 2004 Euro glory. Coming back home and though the ongoing season of the NPFL is very young, Akwa Starlets have demonstrated the same compactness with good understanding of themselves and the players in last Sunday’s game against Rangers covered for one another very well, which has made observers to believe that given some elements of luck and an injury-free season, they could shock the bigger NPFL players. Akwa Starlets and Plateau United are the only teams yet to taste defeat in the infant season and that, as observers have noted, counted for their strength as they hope to rub shoulder with the big boys in the league. The Akwa Ibom State side started the season with a 1-1 draw against Delta Force in Asaba and followed that up with another 1-1 draw at Hartland in Okigwe. Playing before their own fans for the first time this season in week four after their match-day two in Uyo against Kano Pillars was shifted, the Starlets inflicted the first loss to FC IfeanyiUbah, beating the Anambra Warriors 1-0 at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium. But what perhaps remains the biggest result achieved so far in Akwa Starlet’s maiden campaign in the NPFL was their 2-0 win over Rangers International at the Cathedral, the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium in Enugu. Entering the game as ‘underdogs’ and rightly too given their hosts’ pedigree, more so they are campaigning in the CAF Confederation Cup with seamless results so, far, not even Akwa Starlets’ most incurable optimists would have given them the result, as a draw would have been seen as a huge achievement. But the debutants defied all odds to beat Rangers 2-0 before a relatively packed Nnamdi Azikiwe crowd courtesy of goals from Femi Ajayi and Isaac George in the 17th and 43rd minutes respectively. On the strength of their run so far, followers of the NPFL will readily expect them to get all the three points when they square up against fellow NPFL new boys, Warri Wolves, this Sunday. The ‘Seasiders’ are not new to the NPFL after having been in the topflight and churn out great players who later went ahead to represent the country. But they were relegated a couple of seasons ago and just made a return this season. Though Akwa Starlets are expected to win, the match will certainly not be an easy one for them because Warri Wolves are not doing badly after five rounds of games. But for the 0-1 loss they suffered against Rivers United last Sunday, Warri Wolves have held their own, holding their grit against MFM in Lagos, who needed a last gasp goal to salvage a point against the Seasiders. The match on Sunday in Uyo will also test the resolve of the two debutants, particularly Akwa Starlets in their quest to upset the apple cat this season.