Minna – A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Niger State, Mr. Jonathan Tsado Vatsa has lambasted the Nigerian Senate for considering how to deal with Nigerians supposedly exercising their rights of freedom of expression instead of focusing on how to provide good governance the party had promised. Vatsa said it sounds rather ridiculous for the party which came into power using the powers of social media is suddenly branding the same instrument that has earned it so much evil that must be dealt with while in the real sense the APC is the architect of the so-called, “Hate Speech”. The former APC Publicity Secretary in Niger state said the proposed hate speech bill is giving credence to the rumor that President Muhammadu Buhari is nursing the ambition of a third term and that is why they need the death penalty to silence everybody who will want to oppose him. “It is like beating someone and at the same time not allowing the person to cry. Nigerians are suffering, passing through what I would say is the worst situation and this to me gave rise to the more condemnations of the government we are all witnessing today”. Vatsa who is the former Commissioner Information, Culture and Tourism suggested that those championing the bill to silence law-abiding Nigerians through the death penalty just because they spoke out against prevalent administrative injustices of should focus on more important things. Making mockery of the National Assembly for losing its focus of making laws to protect citizens to making laws to kill more Nigerians, the APC chieftain said, “The 9th Assembly should also propose a bill that will apply for lands in the 36 states, including FCT, Abuja as did for Ruga to be used as cemetery for hate speech offenders that will be killed”. While accusing his party of fast losing in taste and respect that once endeared it to the minds of Nigerians in 2015, demanded that the champion of the bill, Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi apologize to Nigerians for spearheading a bill supporting unjustly killing of Nigerians. Vatsa said, “We are talking about life, death by hanging because I criticize the government and its policies I find to be undemocratic or not favourable to us as a nation. Why can’t the Senate think of how to checkmate what is giving rise to hate speech and deal with it instead? “If what we did to earn the victory for the APC in 2015 is what hate speech is all about and if there were similar laws by the then President Goodluck Jonathan administration in place then or being propagated then I don’t think I would be alive today because we were all guilty”, he said. “I call on Senator Aliyu Sabi to also propose a bill that will ensure we have separate cemetery for offenders so that we can have it as tourist sites with inscriptions, ‘Hate Speech’ cemetery because the offenders may also include those of us who have benefitted from hate speech”. Vatsa in a statement made available to newsmen titled, “What a shame”, wondered why the APC-controlled Senate should ever contemplate such a draconian and unpopular law, insisting that, “We rode to power in 2015 through hate speech. We (APC) brought hate speech to Nigeria politics and I am one of them”. “As a Publicity Secretary of the APC, I know how we used hate speech to mobilize Nigerians against the then ruling party. And it paid off because Nigerians eventually hated the Peoples Democratic Party. Before 2015, Nigerians did not know anything like hate speech”. According to him, “In fact, since the return of democracy in 1999, we are just hearing about hate speech. APC as a political party brought hate to Nigerian politics in form of propaganda. The truth must be told. We are the architect of hate speech and nobody complained about it. We enjoyed it and it worked for us”. “If we think we have failed Nigerians in our change promises, let us be bold enough to tell Nigerians that we are sorry, we couldn’t deliver, but to try to cage them by trying to introduce or recycle Decree 4 of 1984 in the name of hate speech is a shame and unacceptable.” Jonathan Vatsa blamed the Senate Deputy Whip, who is from Niger-North Senatorial District, Alhaji Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi for the unpopular moves, warning that the proposed bill for death penalty for hate speech, might consume all of us, including the Senator himself. Rather than proposing death penalty for hate speech offenders, it should be death penalty for corrupt leaders because corruption and injustice gave birth to what is now being called hate speech, “If there is justice, equity, fairness and respect for rule of law, there will be no hate speech”. “But when people are being marginalized and denied their right, surely there will be hate speech. You cannot stop people from expressing their freedom of speech. If the Senate is proposing death penalty for hate speech, then what will they do to Boko Haram, armed bandits, kidnappers, oil bunkers and treasury looters both politicians and civil servants? “All these things are worse than hate speech. There are more pressing issues to Nigerians that the Senate should look into and address instead of wasting their energy on an unpopular bill like this one that will not see the light of the day”. Vatsa however believes that there are more to the proposed hate speech bill, adding: “If the rumor of President Muhammadu Buhari nursing the ambition of third term is correct, then they need death penalty for hate speech to silence everybody who will want to oppose him. “The Senate should know that he who lives in a glass house should not throw stone because they cannot be there forever. When they leave the Senate, the law can catch up with them. Again, if the money meant for constituency projects are utilized for the purpose it was meant for and the people begin to see dividends of democracy, there will be no need for hate speech”. “If the millions of Nigerian youths can have something to do to earn a living, they will not have time for hate speech. If people are allowed to elect their leaders in a free and fair election there will be no hate speech. Something gave birth to hate speech and that is what the Senate should address”.