ABUJA – Federal Government has said it is considering legislation against open defecation in Nigeria. Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources, who announced this at the weekend in Abuja at a media briefing, said President Muhammadu Buhari would sign an executive order banning open defecation in Nigeria. Adamu said President Buhari would launch and flag-off “Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilet Campaign on Tuesday, November 19, 2019 in Abuja. The minister pointed out that about 47 million Nigerians still practise open defecation in the country, adding that out of 774 Local Government Areas in Nigeria, only 14 LGAs have been declared Open Defecation Free (ODF). He assured that his ministry as the focal ministry for the achievement of Sustaniable Development Goals  6.1 on Water Supply and 6.2 on Sanitation, was poised to end open defecation in Nigeria by 2025. He said already the ministry had developed a road map in the water and sanitation sector, adding that a number of activities such as Partnership for Expanded Water Supply and Hygiene(PEWASH) have been initiated to achieve the objectives. He added that the pilot projects had begun in Ogun and Kano states, noting that their implementation has been very successful. He said the Federal Government has rehabilitated many water schemes, adding that President Buhari had also declared a state of emergency in water and sanitation in Nigeria. As part of efforts to achieve ODF in Nigeria, the minister said a delegation from Nigeria has been sent to India to understudy how they exited about 500 million people from open defecation. To this end, Adamu called for a behaviourial change among Nigerians, adding that it is the personal responsibility of every household to build toilets. He further urged state governments to build public toilets for the citizenry. “Do we have to tell you that it is not right to defecate at the back of your house?  We are applying community led sanitation approach. “Community will support and protect themselves, we are hoping once the campaign gets s to the hearts and minds of people, our job is done. “Everybody should understand that this is not one of the government’s gimmicks. “It is something that personally affects everybody. So we should reflect and think whether open defecation is a good practice,” he said.