LAGOS – As the high level politicking continues in the running of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the Urhobo Youth Assembly (UYA) has given President Muhammadu Buhari a seven-day ultimatum to sack Godswill Akpabio, Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs. They also demanded the dissolution of the interim management committee recently set up by the minister for the agency and the inauguration of the newly constituted NDDC board headed by Pius Odubu as the chairman and Bernard Okumagba as the managing director. The Urhobo youths, in a letter already sent to President Buhari, also threatened to shut down all flow stations within Urhobo land if at the expiration of their ultimatum, the president could not accede to their demands. The UYA leaders and executive members, who rose from an enlarged emergency meeting convened to discuss state of the nation and the ongoing political drama in the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, described the committee set up by Akpabio as a kangaroo body, which would not be allowed to operate. In a statement issued after the meeting, signed by Comrade Jude Akpore, National President, and Comrade Frank Onogagamue, National Secretary, respectively, UYA stated the Urhobo nation, with over 26 oil flow stations and the largest gas plant in the African continent, the Otorogu Gas Plant, had paid its dues by contributing its quota to the socio-economic and political growth of the Nigeria through its huge petro-dollar resources. While commending Buhari over the recent appointment of Olorogun Bernard Okumagba as the NDDC Managing Director, the Urhobo youths thanked the president for giving the Urhobo people a political space to distinguished themselves and contribute their quota to national development. The statement added: “We are compelled to inform Mr. President that the current happenings at the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs under the leadership of Chief Godswill Akpabio is nothing, but a calculated attempt by one ethnic nationality to hijack the regional interventionist agency to the detriments of other ethnics nationalities in the region. “We see this attempt by Chief Godswill Akpabio and its foot soldiers as a well calculated approach to set the Niger Delta on fire again and truncate the laudable programmes being initiated by Mr. President’s administration to address the many years of neglect and near total abandonment of the region.