Barr. Anselm Ojezua is the state chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo state. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on why the party suspended the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, planned defection of Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu and other sundry issues in the state. Excerpts: The Edo state chapter of the APC under your leadership on Tuesday suspended the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Why was that decision taken? Well, we already knew over time that he had a hand in all these destabilising elements that have been parading themselves in these past few months. But events of the last 48 hours confirmed to us that Oshiomhole was not just behind it, he is also desperate to retain power in Edo state for whatever reasons I don’t know. But it is an act of desperation, obsession for power and insatiable greed. That is what I believe is driving all his actions. Lawrence Okah, the former State Secretary of the party was earlier suspended but he has now been sacked. What was his role in the whole of this crisis rocking the party? All I know is that the guy, Lawrence Okah has limitations mentally. His entire plot to destabilise the party failed woefully as soon as he predicated his actions on the State Working Committee. It meant that he lacked understanding of the constitution of the party as having to do with any officer. It is only the State Executive Committee that can remove an officer of the party, not the Working Committee. So, if he went and gave money to some people; because I heard that it was the national chairman who gave him money to come and spend in Benin. He spent part of the money but I don’t think they succeeded in getting what they wanted to buy. He has been exposed and he has been expelled from the party. Okah also issued another statement yesterday saying the State Working Committee has passed a vote of no confidence on you. What is your reaction to that? Like I just told you, in this matter, the State Working Committee is irrelevant except as being members of the State Executive Committee. The State Executive Committee met yesterday, including all the local government chairmen; that means yesterday, we had 40 of us together. What is left is about eight; three party chairmen and five others. Can eight people override 40? That is practically impossible. So, that already tells you that their actions amount to nullity. They just believe that because Oshiomhole is the national chairman, he has become the Commander-in- Chief and we say no! There is no such thing in our constitution. Even Oshiomhole as big as he is as the national chairman, is subject to the constitution of the party. Osagie Ize- Iyamu, the governorship candidate of the PDP in the 2016 governorship election has intimated journalists that he is returning to APC. What value do you think he would add to your party? Well, he hasn’t told me yet that he is joining the APC. But I want to assure you that if he comes, he will meet us here. We are at home. As the state chairman of the party, what do you think is the way forward out of this lingering crisis so that Edo APC can be united ahead of next year’s governorship election? The only solution is that, let Oshiomhole just leave Edo State APC to run itself. He has a huge job in Abuja as the national chairman of the party. With all that is going on in the party nationwide, he needs more than 24 hours to do his job. So, why is he concerning himself with what we used in making stew in Benin City? Why should he worry himself with our affairs, trying to interfere in every issue? He went to gather around him those who fought him throughout the period he was governor when we stood by him. Those who fought against him are now the people he is using to destabilise the party and he expects to succeed. How can that be? Don’t you think the Edo state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will want to latch on to this crisis in your party? They are not strong enough. You can see now that they are already in deeper crisis with the suspension of some of their key leaders. They are disorganised and disintegrating, so we don’t see them as a threat at all. The only strong force in Benin is Governor Godwin Obaseki. Are you sure he is going to win if he seeks re-election? I am very sure; I am very confident that we will win. I am also very confident that our party members will be reasonable and they will do what is normal by giving the right of first refusal to the incumbent, particularly when he has done well. You recently threatened to suspend or even expel members of Edo People Movement (EPM) from the APC. What informed this decision? Anybody that is organising a parallel group in the party will have to contend with us. There is no better way to destroy a party than to encourage factionalisation. We have zero tolerance for that and the constitution states very expressly that it is not acceptable and we will deal with it. It has also been alleged that the national chairman will focus his attention on Edo after the conclusion of the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections. How prepared are you for his onslaught given his combative nature? He will meet us here. We are here as a family waiting for him.