LOKOJA – In a bid to promote maternal, neonatal health and eradicate effect of tetanus, the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has inaugurated the second round of the 2019 Maternal, Newborn and Child Health Week (MNCHW) and Tetanus Eradication (MNTE) campaign to protect mothers of child bearing age, newborn and children. Speaking at the flag off ceremony at Zango Daji in Adavi LGA, the governor assured the people of his commitment to ensure the reduction in maternal, newborn and child mortality rate in the state to the barest minimum. Bello, who was represented by his Senior Special Assistant on Primary Health Care (PHC), Mrs Grace Tokura, said his administration had created enabling environment and given the necessary support for quality healthcare delivery across the state. He assured that his second term in office would herald improved maternal and child health care service for women and children and ensure increased quality of life for the people. He added: “We have been delivering on our promises to the people and we are determined to do more in collaboration with our development partners.” He urged the people, especially the women, to bring out their children to take full advantage of the health intervention package. Earlier, Dr Abubakar Yakubu, Executive Director, Kogi State Primary Healthcare Development Agency (KSPHCDA), said the MNCHW would feature the Maternal, Neonatal and Tetanus Eradication (MNTE) Campaign. According to him, both programmes were aimed at safeguarding mothers of childbearing age, newborn and children, to reduce morbidity and mortality in mothers and children within the age of 0-59 months as well as bring other services to the doorsteps of our people. ‘’Including the MNTE campaign to this 2nd round of MNCHW is aimed to ensure that mothers are free from Tetanus infection and prevent transmission to the child. ‘’This is very necessary as untreated Tetanus results in muscle spasms and eventual death. ‘’With the consistent implementation of this bi-annual event in the State, and other health intervention programs, the State will improve significantly in our health indices with regard to Routine Immunization. ‘’These vaccines are safe, free and effective, so we encourage all women and children within the age range to take them and be safe,’’ he said. Yakubu commended the efforts of commissioner for health and the governor, for transforming Primary Health care delivery in the State, saying ‘’we are rest assured that with his re-election, he will do more. ‘’The KSPHCDA is committed to leaving no stone unturned so as to ensure our people benefit in all primary health care provisions,’’ he restated. He thanked the Development Partners- WHO, UNICEF and NPHCDA for their tirelessly support for PHC activities in the state, stressing that their combined efforts had yielded good results.