Lagos – Arguments and counter-arguments across the world have continued to trail the anti-hate speech that is currently being proposed by the Senate. The United Nations and the United Kingdom opposed the death penalty clause in the proposed National Commission for the Prohibition of Hate Speech Bill introduced by Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Sabi Abdullahi. The UN described the death penalty as barbaric, noting that its inclusion in the bill was unacceptable. According to the bill, any person who violates the law shall be liable to life imprisonment and where the act causes any loss of life, the person shall be punished with death by hanging. But the spokesman, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), Mr. Olusola Macaulay, reportedly said the global body would not support the bill, noting that a UNESCO advocacy group, Media and Information Literacy Coalition, would soon meet with the National Assembly over the proposed legislation. He said, “We are trying to pay an advocacy visit to the government and do some lobbying. There is a coalition working already, it was formed with the support of UNESCO. “They are working to meet with the National Assembly to express their mind and possibly advise the government to have a different narrative to the issue of hate speech and fake news.” Macaulay also said the UN would lobby the Federal Government on the legislation, adding that what was needed is public enlightenment and education about hate speech and not a law stipulating the death penalty for violators. He said, “I’m not sure what the government needs now is a bill or an idea to shut down people or prevent people from being able to express themselves or express their freedom of thought or information. What I think the government should do more is to enlighten the people.” The UN agency said most Nigerians were ignorant of issues relating to media and information literacy, noting that a harsh law was not the solution to the challenge. The global body noted, “Every human being has the right to life and you cannot cut off people’s lives just because someone has expressed his opinion. Nobody is saying hate speech is good. “Hate speech and fake news have been there from time immemorial and it is barbaric to say now that we want to hang people because they expressed their feelings or what they had in mind. So, censoring people or limiting people from participating in politics might not be the correct thing. As I said, the best thing to do is to educate the people.” Macaulay queried the government for not holding politicians engaging in hate speech to account, noting that many of them had said things that could destabilise the country without being held liable. The British Government said it supports the right of individuals to express opinions and peacefully challenge authority as an essential part of a free and open society, noting that it was following discussions around the proposed legislation closely. Commenting on the bill, Her Majesty’s Government said while it takes a strong stand against hate speech which could incite violence and damage relationships within the society, it supports “the right of individuals to express opinions and peacefully challenge authority as an essential part of a free and open society.” The statement signed by the Senior Press and Public Affairs Officer, British High Commission, Abuja, Chris Ogunmodede, said, “The UK government is following discussions around the proposed Prohibition of Hate Speech bill closely.” It added, “We take a strong stand against hate speech, which can incite violence and damage community relationships within society.  We also strongly support the right of individuals to express opinions and peacefully challenge authority as an essential part of a free and open society. “The UK strongly opposes the inclusion of the death penalty in any piece of legislation, as a matter of principle.” In separate interviews with Sunday Independent, lawyers, analysts and activists who spoke said that in as much as nobody supports hate speeches, proposing a death penalty for it is too much, that there are enough laws which already take care of hate speeches. They believed that such should be for those found guilty of corrupt charges, kidnappers and Boko Haram insurgents. They also believed that there are more pressing issues that will be of benefit to Nigerians and the common man on the street for the National Assembly to deliberate on, rather than issues that do not have much relevance. Adewale Adeoye, Executive Director, Journalists for Democratic Rights, (JODER) said that nobody supports hate speech but hanging those who make hate speeches is an overkill. “It is primitive to think that because people make hate speeches, then the next thing is death. Such a policy will portray any country as a terrorist state. I think it is a crazy bill. I never imagined that an elected official in a democracy will have this kind of mindset. “The promoters are attacking the very foundation of democracy which is free speech.  You cannot criminalise statement born out of anger and frustration against state policies which is exactly what they are trying to do. It is a conscious attempt to subvert opposition and promote a totalitarian society. “Those who steal millions and billions of naira are not qualified for hanging but those who make hate speeches are. This is the height of irresponsibility on the part of elected officials to conceive of people being hanged for hate speeches which have not bullets and which is also difficult to establish or prove when made in passing.” Speaking further he said, “how do you determine what is hate speech? I think the democratic space is being muzzled and trampled upon by those elected to protect the citizens.” Femi Aborishade, human rights lawyer stated that it is simply legislation in aid of totalitarianism, to curtail the fundamental rights of expression and to maintain a culture of silence in the face of unprecedented impunity, mis-governance, corruption and abuse of public office. “We reject it, we have enough provisions in existing statutes to take care of hate speeches. Fundamental rights of expression should not be criminalised. The laws we need are laws to criminalise non provision of socio economic rights to education, medical care, employment, housing, water, good roads, electricity, food and clothing among others for the vulnerable classes of people in the society. “Mis- governance and general failure of government, the realities of lack in the midst of plenty, hunger-induced reactions, prolonged life in darkness, deathtrap roads, mortuary status of public hospitals and so on, all combined to result in different forms of hate speeches,” he added. Wale Oyekoya, a media analyst, said that as much as he dislikes hate speech, it should not have gotten to the draconian and punitive punishment of death sentence when the most dreaded groups like herdsmen, Boko Haram, kidnappers and most especially the corrupt government officials, sabotaging our economy are walking freely in the country. “Knowing Nigeria, they will abuse the law and innocent citizens will be caught in the web. Our corrupt judicial system is not ripe for such death penalty to our citizens just for hate speech,” he said. Imam Shefiu Majemu, Executive Director, Strength in Diversity Development Centre, noted that it is wrong to use death as penalty for hate speech. “This defiled common sense, human dignity and religion. They should come up with another punitive measure but not death. Majemu wondered why the National Assembly members are not passing death sentence on those who stay in public offices to embezzle the nation’s commonwealth. “The offender or erring person could be sentenced to the correctional centre and made to work for the country or pay a penalty rather than being killed. “Let our Legislators be serious about changing the present condition of the people and put laws in place that will curb hate speech,” he said. Malachy Ugwumadu, former President of the Committee for Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) said that the indicators of an emerging fascism in Nigeria are becoming clearer and that the character and dimension of State intolerance to citizens’ participation in governance are now established and frightening. “The relentless efforts to muzzle the press and free speech are indicative of a hidden agenda by the ruling class and over which the government is no longer disposed to attract debates and interrogations within the public space. “Hate speeches, no doubt, are condemnable and capable of disrupting social orders and equilibrium. Yet, the government is certainly over reaching itself when it consistently devises legislative mechanisms to circumvent the freedom of Nigerians to expression. “Recall that attempts have been made in the past to stifle, muffle social media practitioners and platforms in the public space then, this proposed hate speech bill. The concerns now are: how will this power not be susceptible to abuse? Who superintends the affairs of the proposed commission? “Whose discretionary judgment determines a hate speech? Of what relevance and conflict will other legislations on the issue including the Cyber Crimes Act become with the promulgation of the proposed bill? What is the cost implication of establishing other bureaucracies including a Commission with a fresh work force and conflicting mandates. “How farther are we moving away from the established sound principle of law (in the case of Arthur  Nwankwo v State since 1985) that a state functionary is not at liberty to use the instrumentalities of the State to hound perceived opponents? He can merely institute a civil action in defamation,” he said. Oladotun Hassan, Chairman, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Lekki Eti-Osa Forum, Lagos, noted that the Hate Speech Prohibition Bill with punitive death penalty sentence upon conviction is most audacious affront by members of the 9th Assembly against inalienable fundamental right to freedom of speech as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He said that this is meant to be a gag against Nigerians to freely express their real feelings against some government policies or serve as a bate to weakened the voices of the opposition by the ruling party, while the media is subjected to total alienation from reporting uncompromising events and activities of such government and persons. “In as much as I do not support destructive and seditious statement or uncouth and unpatriotic publications via social media or any other information dissemination methods and platforms, it is important to note that there are existing guiding laws against such heinous crimes; the cyber crime law specifies rules and punishment for violators. “It will amount to double jeopardy and inimical waste of resources to our legal system as a retarded rendezvous and aimless penchant for law making without an iota of will power on enforcement of the law. Hassan also said that the terrorism law is another law that guides against seditious negative statements that are capable of causing damage or arousing chaos and war in the country, with extant capital punishment for offenders such as death penalty and other prison terms sentencing depending on the degree or severity of the crime. “It is a most worrisome and absolute misplaced priority to kick starts a law that is aimed at killing democratic ethos and economic development of the nation, especially at this critical state of our national lives, coupled with daily anguish and extreme poverty faced by many Nigerians. “Hence, this is an inevitable reason for citizens to complain and raise provocative utterances, while it is incumbent upon the government to reason deeply and exercise lots of restaurants in handling such a delicate and volatile situation, the death penalty is not commensurate to the offence at the first mention of it, for such an obnoxious and anti masses bill will not survive the test of time. “More so the second reading even if not shut down at the first reading of it at the moment, however wherein if clandestinely and eventually signed into law, could trigger unprecedented huge volcanic violence and lead to irreparable  consequences of anarchy,  war and civil unrest,” he added.