LAGOS – As the people of Bayelsa and Kogi states file out tomorrow to elect their new governor, there is palpable tension in both states, raising fears that the polls may not be peaceful. The political temperature in both is high as it feared that thugs may latch on the elections to unleash mayhem on the people during the election day. This is as the political parties, especially the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have been pointing accusing fingers to each other, alleging plots of rigging and plans to engage thugs. While PDP is the ruling party in Bayelsa State, the APC is in control of Kogi State. While the incumbent governor of Bayelsa, Seriake Dickson, is on his way out and on the tail end of his second term, he plans to hand over to his party man, Senator Douye Diri. On his own, the Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, is seeking a return for his second term. He will not like Kogi to return to the PDP by losing the election. Thus, the battle line is drawn between the major two major parties as they are poised to fight to the last to undo each other in both states to get victory. Already, in Kogi, suspected political thugs burnt down the secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Lokoja, the state capital, few days ago. The office, which had earlier been attacked, had its windows and doors shattered. Banners, posters and other campaign materials at the office were destroyed and reportedly replaced with the posters of one of the governorship aspirants. The SDP candidate, Natasha Akpoti, had already pointed accusing fingers at the APC and Bello, who she had recently accused of planning to attack her convoy. She said the burning of the secretariat confirmed her claim, even as she also accused the police of taking sides with the APC in Kogi State. Bello’s Fate Hanging In Balance However, Bello still has a hurdle to cross before the Saturday’s election. Today, Friday, a suit challenging his eligibility for the election will be heard at the Federal High Court, Abuja. If the case goes against Bello, it means that APC will be out of the contest. The SDP candidate, Akpoti, has sued Bello at the court, accusing him of double registration. The case will be coming up at Court 5, presided over by Justice Inyang Ekwo. While SDP candidate is the plaintiff, the APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are the first and second defendants respectively. Akpoti alleged that Bello had registered as a voter in Abuja in 2011, and registered again in May 23, 2017 at Government House, Lokoja, while his 2011 first registration as a voter in Abuja “was still live, extant and subsisting,” a development she described as fraudulent and illegal. The SDP candidate maintained: “That the said Yahaya Bello, the candidate of the 1st defendant carried out the double registration with the second defendant so as to scuttle due electoral process. That such a person is not a fit and proper person to be voted for in any election, let alone for the high office of the governor of a state.” Justice Ekwo, it would be recalled, had on Tuesday in a judgment, disqualied the APC Deputy Governorship Candidate in Bayelsa, Sen. Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, over false information given in his CF0001 Form submitted to INEC for the tomorrow’s poll. If Bello loses in court, it will be double jeopardy for the APC. Not only is he going to the poll without a deputy, he may be outrightly disqualified from the poll, thus giving the PDP an easy ride to Government House. APC, PDP Point Accusing Fingers In Bayelsa In Bayelsa, Governor Seriake Dickson is alleged to be desperate to deliver the state once more for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP. Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, in a statement, said the development was worrisome, saying the governor would stop at nothing to rig the election in favour of the PDP candidate, even if it cost lives and properties. But, PDP spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, dismissed such allegation, saying: “APC is hallucinating. The party and its candidates are on a bound-to-fail mission. These allegations are puerile as they are lacking in substance. They should await their defeat on Saturday.” Also, the party’s chapter in Bayelsa State said it uncovered plans by the leadership of the APC to use the Nigerian Army to undermine the election. However, Dickson’s camp is said to have been jolted by the recent defection of several of his trusted aides from the PDP to the APC, a development which was traced to the recent impeachment of the State House of Assembly Speaker, Mr Tonye Isenah, few weeks ago. Buhari Calls Fairness, Transparency Menawhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has called for fairness and transparency in the conduct of the governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states this Saturday. He stated that voters in the two states would be left alone to decide who would take charge of their state administration for the next four years. Buhari, who spoke through Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, noted that since the ban on campaigns was lifted a few weeks ago, their citizens had been called to attend political rallies of various hues and were bombarded with advertising on bill boards, radio and TV; texts, tweets, WhatsApp and Facebook posts in campaigns “that sadly, have so far recorded not a few uninspiring incidents of violence and of intemperate use of language.” Buhari demanded exemplary conduct and non-partisanship on the part of electoral officers and law enforcement officials in the two states, saying that they must carry out their functions with fairness and transparency, without let or hindrance and without fear or favour. He said: “I call on voters in Bayelsa and Kogi States to exercise their franchise in a peaceful and orderly manner and in line with the law in all situations. Law enforcement officials must ensure that citizens are allowed to vote without harassment and intimidation and any attempt to steal or hijack ballots must be stopped using all legal means.” Police Warn Meanwhile, the Nigeria Police, through the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Operations, AbdulMajeed Ali, has warned those planning to snatch ballot boxes during Saturday’s elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states to have a rethink as the police would not condone such behaviour. He said: “Anyone caught will not be spared and will not live to do that ever again.” Ali, who spoke to newsmen ahead of Saturday’s elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, said the Inspector General had deployed enough personnel to adequately police the state and deal with any eventuality during the election. IYC Boss Calls For Peaceful Poll In Bayelsa Barrister Pereotubo Oweilaemi, President, IYC Worldwide also called on Bayels people to ensure that the process would be peaceful. Oweilaemi, in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, urged the stakeholders to conduct themselves in a peaceful manner, stressing that the election should not be a do-or-die. He maintained that the election should be a brotherly contest, advising that the players should not use it to perpetrate violence against fellow Ijaw people. He urged security agencies to be alert to arrest any occurrence. MBTC Helmsman Warns On Kogi Poll Chief Ochi Emmanuel Ode, Chairman, Middle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC), has warned of possible commotion in Saturday’s Kogi State governorship election, expressing doubt that the politicians would play according to the rules. Ode, who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT, maintained that going by what had been happening; especially the utterances of the politicians, lives and properties in Kogi could be put in jeopardy during Saturday’s election, even as he prayed to God to frustrate the plots of such politicians. Ode said: “Election is not a do-or-die. Politicians should allow the people of Kogi to elect who they want to be their governor in a free and fair manner. That is the wish of the people and the wish of God. They should allow it to prevail.” INEC Boss, NYSC DG Reads Riot Act To Corps Members Meanwhile, Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, and the Director General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, have warned corps members that would serve as ad hoc personnel in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in Bayelsa and Kogi states to abide by the electoral laws. Mahmood urged them to avoid actions that may undermine the integrity of the election, stressing that adequate security had been provided for all corps members and Corps Lodges in the states during and after the election. On his own, NYSC DG, Brigadier General Ibrahim said the involvement of corps members in the country’s electoral system had added more credibility to previous elections, describing the NYSC members as patriotic Nigerians on national assignment that deserved proper welfare from every Nigerian.