ABUJA – Federal legislators in the House of Representatives are taking steps towards fast-tracking the process of lawmaking devoid of unnecessary bottlenecks and delay that has characterised the current system. To this end, the House, on Tuesday, passed through second reading, the ‘Act Authentication Act’, Cap. A2, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. It is comprised of four clauses. Leading the debate on the general principles of the amendment bill, the sponsor, Benjamin Kali (APC, Abia), noted that the law which was enacted in 1961 to provide for the authentication and recording of Acts of the National Assembly has outlived its usefulness in the 21st century Nigeria, and thus required urgent rejigging to meet current challenges of legislation. He said: “The Act, among other things, prescribed certain duties to be performed by the Clerk of the National Assembly in preparation for, and including, the presentation of bills to the president for his assent. “The enactment took effect on the 1st of January, 1962. Challenges of the Extant Acts Authentication Act and our legislative process is a thorough, painstaking and lengthy one and rightly so. “To ensure that the finest laws always emanate from these chambers, bills are caused to pass through three readings including scrutiny at the committees before they are finally assented to by Mr. President. In the process, input is taken from the general public, specialised and technical committees and sector stakeholders. “They are allowed to participate in the process leading to the final piece of legislation. Mr. Speaker, Honourable colleagues, laws are made to address gaps, issues and problems in our society. “It is, therefore, imperative that in our aspiration for an ideal society, as soon as they are discovered, these gaps must be closed,” the lawmaker who doubles as the House spokesman said. He argued further, saying that lawmaking in the current system requires that an average bill takes years to become law, adding that there are bills which have lingered in the system, outliving parliaments. “This is nothing to be proud of,” he said. He, therefore, gave justifications for the proposed amendment to include “the need for speed and efficiency in our legislative process, the need to ensure that the Clerk of the National Assembly carries out his functions dutifully and timeously; and the need to ensure that carefully considered bills are assented to in time, to address the gaps in the society for which they were legislated.”