Temidayo Akinsuyi; Joe Omokaro; Tony Ezimakor; Innocent Oweh; Samuel Ogidan; Igoniko Oduma; Atabor Julius Lagos / Abuja / Yenagoa / Lokoja – Bayelsa and Kogi states will tomorrow go into tension-soaked governorship elections. Already, fear has gripped residents following violence that has trailed the campaigns of the parties ahead of voting tomorrow. On Wednesday, one person was killed after violence erupted at a Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) rally in Bayelsa State. The All Progressives Congress (APC) and PDP supporters clashed at Nembe-Ogbolomabiri in Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, leaving several persons injured. Sources said the death toll as at Thursday has increased to eight persons. On Thursday, confusion also trailed the gubernatorial candidacy of the APC after a Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa ruled that the party does not have a candidate for the election. Timipre Sylva, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources and APC stalwart, described the judgment as “the strangest thing not known to law.” In Kogi, political thugs burnt down the secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Lokoja, the state capital. The Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu, has warned politicians not to undermine the law by engaging in violent activities. He said anybody caught engaging in violent activities would be dealt with according to the law of the land. The commandant gave the charge on Thursday in Lokoja while fielding questions from journalists after briefing his officers and men on their roles in tomorrow’s governorship and senatorial elections in Kogi. He assured the people of the state not to panic as a result of alleged isolated threats and tensions created by some misguided politicians, saying the corps had deployed 10,000 personnel to provide security for the protection of lives and property. Ballot Materials Must Not Be Hijacked, Buhari Warns Security Agencies Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has described the actions trailing the polls as filled with suspense. Buhari particularly criticised the political actors over their conduct in the run down to the election, saying incidents of violence and intemperate use of language during the campaigns were regrettable. Buhari spoke through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, on Thursday, where he warned all stakeholders to play by the rules. Part of the statement read: “On Saturday, November 16, voters in two states, Bayelsa and Kogi, will be left alone to decide who takes charge of the administration of their important states for the next four years. “Since the ban on campaigns was lifted a few weeks ago, their citizens have been called to attend political rallies of various hues and were bombarded with advertising on bill boards, radio and TV; texts, tweets, WhatsApp and Facebook posts in campaigns that, sadly, have so far recorded not a few uninspiring incidents of violence and of intemperate use of language.” President Buhari made a strong demand for exemplary conduct of non-partisanship on the part of election and law enforcement officials in the two states. He said all parties must carry out their functions with fairness and transparency; without let or hindrance and without fear or favour. “I call on voters in Bayelsa and Kogi states to exercise their franchise in a peaceful and orderly manner and in line with the law in all situations. “Law enforcement officials must ensure that citizens are allowed to vote without harassment and intimidation and any attempt to steal or hijack ballots must be stopped using all legal means. “In all democratic elections, there are bound to be winners and losers and the elections in Bayelsa and Kogi will not be different. All candidates should be ready to accept the outcomes and wherever they are dissatisfied, they should follow the due process of the law in seeking redress. There must not be a resort to self-help.” He concluded by wishing the two states and their people safe and credible exercise as they vote in these historic and suspenseful elections. Court Bars APC From Bayelsa Governorship Poll On Thursday, a Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa ruled that the APC does not have a candidate for tomorrow’s governorship election in Bayelsa State. Justice Jane Inyang, the presiding judge, delivered the judgment in a case filed by an aspirant, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri. Lokpobiri, who is the immediate past Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, had approached the court to challenge the outcome of the party’s primary election conducted on September 4. The exercise produced Davidson Lyon as the governorship candidate of the APC. But Justice Inyang, in the judgment, nullified the primary election. She said the primary poll was conducted arbitrarily and in contravention of the party’s rules. She ruled that since the process was conducted in violation of the party’s constitution and guidelines for the conduct of governorship primaries, none of the aspirants should be fielded as the party’s candidate. Justice Inyang also gave an order restraining the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from listing Lyon on the ballot paper. She ruled that, according to the APC guidelines for the conduct of the 2019 governorship primaries, the results were expected to be declared by the returning officer for the exercise, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, and not Senator Emmanuel Ochega, who was the secretary of the national panel that supervised the process. Justice Inyang said the APC also violated its own rules in the composition of the election panel when it constituted an 11-member committee instead of seven. She said: “It has been established by judicial authorities and several judgments that political parties are bound by their own rules. “The committee that conducted the primaries threw caution to the wind and it is my ruling that the primaries stands nullified. “The results announced by Senator Emmanuel Ochega is not valid as he is not the returning officer for the election, and I make an order restraining INEC from recognising any of the aspirants that participated in the said primaries.” Listed as respondents in the case were the APC, Lyon, and the INEC. Lokpobiri had claimed that he won the APC primary poll which was conducted using direct method. Expectedly, the APC has rejected the judgment of the court. Briefing journalists at the NUJ Press Centre, the alternate director-general of the APC governorship campaign council, Professor Seiyefa Brisibe, alleged that “the judgment was procured”. Regardless, the PDP said the APC had no place in the November 16 governorship poll following the disqualification of its candidate, David Lyon, and his running mate, Biobarakuma Degi Eremienyo, by two courts of competent jurisdiction. The party said the development pointed to nothing but victory for democracy and the fact that manipulators could not continue to have their way in the electoral process. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, invited INEC to note that no fewer than two decisions of courts of competent jurisdiction had negated the participation of the APC in the race. Appeal Court Grants APC Stay Of Execution– Sylva The Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, said on Thursday that the Court of Appeal in Abuja has granted the APC a stay of execution on the judgment delivered by the Federal High Court nullifying the primaries of the party. Sylva, who stated this in a news conference in Yenagoa on Thursday, said that the APC would fully participate by contesting in the Saturday governorship poll. “I must tell you that the judgment nullifying the primary was clearly a bias one with all due respect to the judiciary. “So, I have come to address you because we have good news for the people of Baylesa. The court in Abuja has granted us stay of execution. “That means, we are fully as a party in the position of contesting this election. “Because we know that the people of Bayelsa are seriously behind us and we will win the election. “Everyone in Bayelsa knows that APC has the majority in the state and if there is an election today, it is clear even to the blind and the deaf that APC will win. “The electorate should go en-masse and vote the candidature of the APC, Mr. David Lyon,” the minister said. It’s Either Card Reader Or No Voting — INEC In another development, INEC said no voter will be allowed to vote without voter card recognised by the smart card reader tomorrow in Bayelsa and Kogi. Prof. James Apam, the resident electoral commissioner (REC), said this on the sideline of a one-day Training on Election Duties, organised by Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) for its staff at Kogi Sector Command Headquarters in Lokoja. Speaking on behalf of Apam, Olugbenga Ajayi, a staff officer of the commission, warned that no person would be allowed to vote without being accredited using the card reader. “We keep learning every day; and we want to obey what we have said as electoral umpire; if card reader cannot identify you, you cannot vote. “It is either card reader or no voting in Kogi and Bayelsa elections; anything apart from the use of card reader for accreditation and voting will be disqualified. “No manual accreditation would be allowed; it is either card reader or no voting,” he reiterated. He enjoined all the personnel participating in the elections to conduct themselves very well and not to compromise but respect their dignity and protect the sanctity of the elections. Police Withdraw Officers Attached To VIPs Michael Ogbizi, the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, has directed the temporary withdrawal of policemen attached to very important persons ahead of the Bayelsa State governorship election on Saturday. This was contained in a statement on Thursday by the Police Public Relations Officer of the state command, Asinim Butswat, a Superintendent of Police. Those affected by the temporary withdrawal of police personnel include political office holders, businessmen and VIPs in the state. The withdrawal would take effect from Friday, November 15. The statement said: “All policemen attached to these VIPs, businessmen and political/public office holders are hereby warned to report to the Bayelsa State Police Command Headquarters unfailingly by Friday, 15th November, 2019 on or before 1000hrs.” The command enjoined Bayelsans to cooperate and support security agencies to ensure a peaceful and credible election in the state. Police Deploy Eight Helicopters, Gun Boats To Kogi, Bayelsa In the meantime, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the deployment of eight helicopters with infra-red lights to monitor the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states from the air. In addition, the IGP has ordered the deployment of gun boats to the two states. Investigations by Daily Independent revealed that four helicopters were deployed to each of the states to hover round all the local government areas of the states while reporting to ground police officers, where crisis is noticed. The Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) in charge of Operations, Abdulmajid Ali, and the head of Police Air Wing Department, Commissioner of Police, Danladi Lalas, are to supervise the aerial surveillance. A dependable source at Force Headquarters, Abuja, told Daily Independent that the DIG and the CP, with two other officers, are to monitor the situation from the air in Kogi, while the DIG Force Criminal Investigations Department, with a police pilot and three other officers, are to monitor the Bayelsa election from the air. Force Public Relations Officer, Deputy Commissioner of Police Frank Mba, failed to disclose the figure of the helicopters and numbers of gun boats for Bayelsa and Kogi states. He, however, said: “Bayelsa has more gun boats because of its creek terrain, while a few are deployed to Kogi because the state has some areas covered by water.” He told Daily Independent that “it is against security tenets to disclose the numbers of helicopters and gun boats. We are also deploying sniffer dogs and other apparatus for the elections”. Kogi Election Might Be Bloody, CDD Warns The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) said incidents of violence can affect voters’ turnout during the governorship election in Kogi State. In a statement jointly signed by Adele Jinadu, CDD chairman, and Idayat Hassan, the director, the organisation said the language being used by politicians in the state can affect voter confidence and the credibility of the process. The CDD urged security agencies to protect the lives of the electoral officials and ensure that violence is curbed during the election. “Less than 48 hours to November 16, 2019, Kogi State Governorship election, political actors have failed to de-escalate the tension, which had been building up in the state. Unfortunately, this has set the stage for what could be a very bloody electoral process, if urgent action is not taken to address the situation,” the organisation said. “It is disheartening that political gladiators across the partisan divide have shown no apparent signs of refraining from using vitriolic rhetoric capable of inflaming passions, which could result in dire consequences for voter confidence and turnout and the credibility of the entire process. “At the CDD Elections Analysis Centre, we believe the credibility of an election does not rest exclusively with happenings on the polls or outcome of the elections. To us, equally crucial is the nature of the environment heading into the polls, and mainly how it contributes to the unfettered participation of all stakeholders, especially political contestants in the process. “Our findings from the observation of the pre-election environment point to a very volatile political environment, characterised by fierce rhetoric, threats of violence and actual incidents of violence. “At the last count also, the threats of violence and actual incidents of violent disturbances, including the condemnable arson on the party secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) could have the effect of making voters stay away from the polls.” U.S Calls For Peaceful, Free, Transparent Elections In Kogi, Bayelsa The U.S. government has called for a free and fair election in the upcoming gubernatorial elections in Kogi and Bayelsa, stating that it would be paying close attentions to electoral offenders. The call was made in a statement by the Public Affairs Department of the U.S Mission to Nigeria in Abuja. According to the statement, the conduct of the upcoming bi-elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states was important not only for Nigeria, but for the African continent. “The United States government does not support any specific candidate or party in any Nigerian election. “The United States supports the Nigerian democratic process itself. We support a genuinely free, fair, transparent, and peaceful electoral process. “We, and other democratic nations, will be paying close attention to actions of individuals who interfere in the democratic process or instigate violence against the civilian population before, during, or after the elections”.