LAGOS – In the many years that developing countries built the structures that now undergird their vibrant economies, the focus was on durable physical and economic infrastructure. These birthed the numerous industries that now control and influence global trade. Development economists would rightly argue that it is these structures that differentiate economic realities in developed and developing countries, contributing to the low cost of production in advanced countries that make them competitive and viable. The refrain in the last century was for national and subnational economies to prioritise development of infrastructure as they were also building human capital so as to balance the scale of development. In fact, the Africa Development Bank (AfDB) says that infrastructure needs in African countries amount to $130–$170 billion a year, with a financing gap in the range $67.6–$107.5 billion. Analysts, however, argue that countries like Nigeria fail to attract investment because the local dynamics are too shoddy and loosely defined, making it difficult for serious investment to place a bet on Nigeria or its subnational entities. But one state that has somewhat scaled this hurdle and is now a darling to international development institutions and investors is Edo State run by Governor Godwin Obaseki, an investment banker who cut his teeth in deepening reforms in Nigeria’s investment sector. He has now brought his expertise to bear on the development of Edo state, helping to facilitate the siting and mobilisation of funding for the Edo-Azura Power project in the state, which has heavyweights like the World Bank Group, Siemens, Julius Berger, among others, on board. This was to ensure that the state has a proven record of attracting and keeping investors to build the right infrastructure that can drive industrialisation. Though Edo-Azura supplies power to the National Grid, its presence has spurred the incursion of more power companies into the state and also guarantees other large industries in the state a source for relatively stable power. Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium One of the rising jewels in Edo’s spectacular skyline is the Samuel Ogbemudia stadium, which is being renovated and fitted with more sporting facilities, including a canopy cover. Part of the governor’s infrastructure renewal masterplan, the stadium is being expanded and equipped with state-of-the-art facility to spur sports development and develop local talents in the state. The new look of the stadium and the newly installed infrastructure assets have caught the attention of international sporting organisations, as the state is being slated to host the 2020 Under 20 Womens’ World Cup. The state is also warming up to host the National Sports Festival scheduled for next year, during which athletes and sports enthusiast across the country will he hosted in the state for the sports fiesta. Governor Obaseki said rehabilitation work at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin is near completion and the stadium would be ready to host various local and international sporting competitions. “We take sports seriously in this state, because 72 per cent of our population are under 30 years of age, and that is why we are building 20 mini-stadia across the state. Therefore, four of these mini-stadia can be used as practice fields for the Under-20 Women’s World Cup.” Mr. Agho Omo, who resides in Stadium Road, commended Governor Obaseki for prioritising the reconstruction of the stadium to revive sports in the state. According to him, “I am impressed with the work done. The state government under Governor Obaseki has shown what is possible when funds are maximised for development. This is the right step in the right direction. The governor and his team have shown that they are indeed committed to sports development and are expert managers of resources. “As someone who lives on this axis of town, I know what this stadium looked like before. But with the work done now, we can host international games at the Samuel Ogbemudia stadium. It is heart-warming.” A footballer, Mr. Innocent Omozuwa, said the state government has impressed the sporting community in the state with the stadium revamp project, noting that the natural grass at the stadium would make the stadium a footballer’s delight, amid other attractions. “When completed, I bet that everyone in Benin will want to watch matches here. The stadium now has a beautiful canopy cover. The chairs are being well laid. We are so excited with what the governor has done,” he added. Work at the stadium started in 2017, with a design to revamp the mainbowl, tennis court and the swimming pool sections. Urban Renewal The Governor Godwin Obaseki-led government has urban renewal as one of its key development thrusts. Since the start of the administration, there has been massive construction of roads, reclaiming of gully erosion sites, construction of parks and restoring sanity to public places across the state. The unprecedented urban renewal projects have earned the governor the sobriquet, ‘Wake and See Governor,’ said to be a product of the governor’s unique leadership style that abhors unnecessary fanfare. The road construction projects span across different parts of the state and are being spearheaded by the Ministry of Infrastructure, State Employment and Expenditure for Results (SEEFOR) and SEEFOR Plus, the state government-funded scheme modeled after the World Bank funded project. The major roads that have been completed or receiving attention include: St. Saviour Road, Ugbor-Amagba Road, Lucky Way, Ehaekpen-TV Road, Ikiran-Oke-Ikakhumoh Road, Benin-Abraka Road (the longest road project ever constructed by the state government), Agbede-Awain Road, Uzebba-Okpuje-Akagbor Road, Irhirhi-Aruogba-Obazagbon-Obagienevbosa, among others. There is also a large cache of township roads being worked on across the state to bring development closer to the people and reactivate economic activities in the hinterlands. Many say the spate of road construction being witnessed can only be compared to what obtained in the Old Bendel State, as most of the roads were last worked on 40 years ago. Schools A major aspect of the governor’s infrastructure drive is the renovation of public schools across the state, expected to complement investment in human capital development. Schools, including conventional and technical institutions of learning, are being remodeled to reflect the governor’s commitment to build infrastructure in the quest to revive the state’s industrial sector. Govt Science and Technical College The Government Science and Technical College, is being remodeled to be become a center of excellence in technical education in the state. With its new state-of-the-art twin blocks, the school has resumed for a new academic session, while the state government has recruited new science and technology teachers to ensure that the school is top-rate. Work on the old buildings are already underway. The target, according to the state government, is to have an institution that would serve as the grooming ground for best-in-town technical experts, who will receive training and certification that would be recognized in any part of the world. Obaseki said the GSTC will host a production hub to spur industrialisation in the axis, noting that the hub will serve as a location for design and production of machines so as to create opportunities for students to work with those in the industry and translate what they learn to the real world. “We have now finished building two new blocks with workshops that will accommodate about 800 students. We now need to move to the old blocks and begin to make them more modern. We are also rebuilding the electrical, mechanical and carpentry workshops. We are introducing plumbing and other trades,” he said. Obaseki added that the state government is in talks with foreign partners for exchange programmes which will make provision for experts to train teachers on technical subjects. “We need more teachers that can teach technical subjects and we need to train them. We are considering different options as we are talking to foreign partners to provide technical support and assistance on how to bring people who have done this before to accelerate the training of our teachers,” the governor said.