Michael Owen has issued his prediction between Chelsea and Ajax, who face one another in the Champions League. The Blues are hoping for a similar result two weeks ago when they beat the Eredivisie outfit in Amsterdam 1-0. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Michy Batshuayi was the hero of the night, netting late on to earn the away team a much-deserved win. It stands as Frank Lampard’s best result since joining Chelsea in the summer as manager, which put the west London side top of their Champions League group. READ ALSO: Barcelona’s Managerial Target Prefers To Coach Rival Real Madrid Now the ex-Derby boss must mastermind another victory over Erik ten Hag’s side again. BT Sport pundit Owen believes that his former England team-mate will edge it once more, which will make it three wins in a row in Europe. Owen said: “Frank Lampard’s side have bounced back tremendously well in the Champions League when you consider they lost their opening game at home to Valencia. “I think the Blues will edge what promises to be another terrific game between two inform, free-scoring sides. “Chelsea were 2-1 winners against Watford at Vicarage Road on Saturday evening thanks to goals from Tammy Abraham and Christian Pulisic. “The Blues are in fourth place in the table and six points ahead of fifth-placed Arsenal in the race to secure a place in next season’s Champions League.” Lampard’s young team are on a winning streak in the Premier League at the moment as they look to make a case for finishing in the top four. Their 2-1 victory over Watford at the weekend extended their run to five wins, with academy starlets Tammy Abraham, Mason Mount and Fikayo Tomori becoming key players. But Mount wants to go one better than just finishing in the top four and has the league title in his sights. “We want to win trophies and we want to be top of the league,” said the midfielder. “We’re so tight as a team, the bond is so good and we’ve got that focus and togetherness that we need to win trophies. “That’s our next goal, to win a major trophy. We just need to keep getting better and better, which is what we’ve shown over the last couple of weeks. “If we carry on this level of performance, we can definitely be a top contender in any competition.”