Mr. Moses Dickson, a lawyer and entrepreneur, in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on Saturday’s governorship election and why Bayelsans should vote for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate, Senator Douye Diri. Excerpts: What is your take on the forthcoming governorship election in Bayelsa State? Like any other Bayelsan, I am excited at the auspicious opportunity presented to us to determine who succeeds Henry Seriake Dickson, the first democratically elected governor to serve out his two terms of four years. I am delighted at the stability and growth the state has enjoyed these past almost eight years and the window the forthcoming elections provide to determine our collective future as Bayelsans. It is my sincere hope that this election produces a winner that will sustain and surpass the quantum leap the state has made in the last almost eight years. I hope the electoral umpire will conduct a free and fair contest tapping from their experiences of this same exercise in this state and beyond and that security agencies will exude professionalism in support of a peaceful and credible election. Governor Seriake Dickson after eight years in office is expected to pass the baton to someone, what kind of person do you think should succeed the outgoing governor? The significance of the office of the Governor of Bayelsa extends beyond the borders of its eight local governments. Bayelsa, as the cultural and spiritual headquarters of the Ijaw nation, implies that anyone seeking the governorship seat must be a person that is passionate about the dreams and aspiration of the Ijaw nation. More than this, the ideal successor to the incumbent must be capable of continuing the task of harnessing our rich and diverse human and material resources to further the course of the Ijaw people in Bayelsa and elsewhere. The ideal candidate must continue to be in the forefront of the advancement of pressing issues to our people such as resource control, federal character which are all enduring anchors of the true Federalism aspiration of our people. I also expect the next governor to be pragmatic in ensuring continuity of the laudable projects, policies and initiatives of the current administration with the courage to modifying the same to suit prevailing realities. Closely related to this, is the hope that the next governor is also innovation-driven and abreast with global developments on issues, for informed policy development and implementation. As a member of the Bayelsa business community, I would be glad to have another governor that understands the unique role entrepreneurs play in the economic and overall development of any state. This understanding, I hope will translate to the sustainability of our eco-system that is favourable to the growth of existing entrepreneurs and the birth of new ones as well. I anticipate that the election will produce another God-fearing, accountable, and cosmopolitan governor of Bayelsa state. Who among the governorship candidates will you support and ask people of Bayelsa State to vote for in Saturday’s election and why are you supporting and endorsing your chosen candidate? Having studied the candidates vying in the next elections, I have reached an informed conclusion to support the candidacy of Senator Douye Diri (SDD), candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and enjoin Bayelsans to do the same. The reasons for my choice are not far-fetched. Bayelsa needs a governor who will hit the ground running and not a novice coming to experiment with the position. SDD stands shoulder high above other aspirants in this regards as he has acquired and demonstrated competence, capacity and experience from years of long service in government at many levels. Another reason SDD is my preferred candidate is that he has the best understanding of the struggle for the emancipation of the Ijaw nation which is a personal passion to me. The fact speaks for itself in his antecedents as exco member of the Ijaw National Council and his tenacious advocacy for the Ijaw course as a member of the National assembly. SDD’s candidacy should also be supported to sustain the long-established tradition of political justice that provides the opportunity for power rotation among the different senatorial zones of the state and the constituent local government areas irrespective of numbers, and don’t forget that this same ideology granted our state and region an opportunity to produce a President of this country. It is instructive to note that SDD is from Kolokuma/Opokuma local government area in the Central Senatorial district, which is one out of the remaining two local governments that has not produced a Governor; acting or substantive in the history of Bayelsa state. He is a man with a listening ear and an impressive and sustainable policy document if implemented diligently. What do you think Bayelsans will benefit if they vote for continuity of the ruling party, PDP in the State by voting for the PDP candidate, Senator Duoye Diri? In the immediate, Bayelsans can be assured of the completion of projects initiated by the Restoration government by voting for Senator Douye Diri. Educational Milestones like the university of Africa, Medical University, the life hanging Boarding schools in all the senatorial districts not to mention the Ijaw National Academy not to mention the free school feeding and other massive and aggressive educational initiatives such as the school loans and scholarships at all levels be sustained and improved on. Similarly, this election provides an opportunity for Bayelsans to for the first time, enjoy the gains of sustainability in governance. The discontinuation of laudable policies and programmes by successive administrations has been identified as a major challenge to the development of any area. Bayelsans with this election should vote the Diri/Lawrence ticket to ensure the sustenance of the current pace development in the state. Do you see the APC governorship candidate, Chief David Lyon stopping the PDP candidate, Senator Douye Diri in the governorship poll? It is important to clarify that there is just a single party on ground in Bayelsa and that is the PDP all along. Suffice it to say that the party has been in power since the return to democracy in 1999. In these years, the party to its credit has impacted positively on every household in Bayelsa. This, in turn, has translated to a viable and tested structure that ensures the mobilization of our people in support of the party. The PDP as a party has immensely championed the course of the Ijaw nation over the years. A clear demonstration of the commitment of the PDP to the Ijaw people is the platform provided for the emergence of an Ijaw man as Nigeria’s president despite our “minority” status. The APC as it is today is but an assembly of disgruntled politicians driven more by an ambition to secure power than the need to foster the development of our dear state. The good thing in all of these is that our people can see beyond the smokescreen and will again rally round the party that has shown the greatest commitment to the development of Ijaw land. Quote me any day that there is only one party our people know and trust and that’s the PDP and am glad to say even the business community I belong to have worked hand in hand with policymakers over the years to advance the cause of entrepreneurs and we feel committed to continue this partnership with the incoming Governor Senator Diri and his team. What is your advice to Bayelsans as they march out on Saturday to elect a new governor? I will ask Bayelsans to come out en masse to exercise their franchise via the ballot on Saturday. Furthermore, I would ask our people to reflect on the state of our nation at this time. Specifically, I’d ask them to consider the promises the APC made to attain power at the federal level and what has become of those promises today and am asking my friends in the business community here to understand that our businesses rest on policies of the government which either help our businesses grow or Wind up. So It will be regrettable if anyone believes the APC will achieve in Bayelsa, what it has failed to do with the enormous power and resources it controls at the centre and am more concerned about my state. Dickson