Akure – No fewer than seven persons have been arrested and set to be prosecuted for illegal sale of medicines with narrow margins of safety in Akure, the Ondo State capital. Elijah Mohammed, Registrar of Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) disclosed this to newsmen on Friday in Akure, while reeling out the efforts of the Council in checking illegal activities of drug sellers in the state. Represented by Stephen Esumobi, Director, Enforcement, PCN, Mohammed explained that PCN had earlier sealed the premises of the seven persons arrested, but they went ahead to break the seal and continued with their illegal activities. According to him, “The enforcement team was in Ondo State in July and sealed off some premises within the state capital and environs. Some of these premises were found to be carrying out illegal sale of medicines including those with narrow margins of safety which are supposed to be dispensed under the supervision of a pharmacist. “Some of these premises broke the PCN seal and continued with their illegal activities. This prompted the enforcement to visit the state again. “Seven owners or agents of these premises were arrested during a joint operation between the PCN enforcement and men of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC).” The PCN registrar disclosed that among the 496 premises visited by the team during the operation, which covered the state capital and other towns including Ondo, Owo, Oba-Ile and Ogbese, 301 premises were sealed. Among the sealed premises were 30 pharmacies and 271 patent medicine stores for varying offences such as operating without licensure, sale of ethical products without the supervision of a pharmacist, carrying out activities beyond scope of licence, poor storage conditions, unauthorized relocation of premises among others. PCN also disclosed that 18 premises were issued compliance directives for offences such as non-display of licences, poor documentation among others. Mohammed, however disclosed that seven culprits arrested would be charged to court after completion of investigations. According to him, efforts are being intensified to arrest other culprits are apprehended and prosecuted.