Yenagoa – One person was on Wednesday killed after violence erupted at a Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) rally ahead of Saturday’s governorship election in Bayelsa State.
It was gathered that the incident, which happened at Nembe-Ogbolomabiri in Nembe Local Government Area, also left several persons injured.
The deceased, whose identity is given as Simon Onu, is said to be the driver of the Outside Broadcast Van of the state-owned radio station in Yenagoa.
Some members of staff of the radio station confirmed the death of the OB Van driver.
The violence broke out about 24 hours after two policemen were said to have been attacked and killed by unknown gunmen at a checkpoint at Otuogidi in Ogbia Local Government Area.
The assailants were said to have carted away the rifles of the slain cops even as one of them died on the spot, while the other died at the hospital.
Heavy shootings were said to have rocked the King Koko Square, venue of the PDP rally at Nembe-Ogbolomabiri, as yet-to-be identified armed men opened fire shortly after party supporters gathered and were waiting for dignitaries to arrive.
Many journalists covering the rally were also caught in the crossfire, it was learnt.
Governor Seriake Dickson and Senator Douye, the PDP’s flag bearer, were among party leaders that would address the crowd.
The campaign visit to Nembe LGA was said to be the last PDP rally before the governorship poll on Saturday.
Some community sources said the perpetrators were believed to be sympathetic to the opposition.
A source, who pleaded anonymity, said, “Some boys were threatening in Nembe yesterday (Tuesday) that they will not allow the PDP to do their rally today (Wednesday).
“Everyone was running in different directions when they started shooting. Even now, my uncle and my sister’s son that were at the rally, we don’t know where they are.”
Asinim Butswat, the Police Public Relations Officer, could not answer calls placed to his mobile phone as at the time of filing this report.