Comrade Debo Adeniran is the Executive Chairman of the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) and a public affairs commentator. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent Supreme Court victory, the suspended probe of former Lagos State governor Akinwunmi Ambode and the 2020 national budget proposal now before the National Assembly. Excerpts: Several Nigerians were surprised at the speed the Supreme Court disposed off the Atiku Abubakar’s appeal on the 2019 presidential election. What is your take on it? People were surprised at the way the case went at the Supreme Court because before, Nigerians were ignorant of the adjudication of the Supreme Court. The judiciary was being blackmailed to sway the judgment in their favour. As soon as the appellants file their case, in the Supreme Court, the judgment of the lower court is reviewed. No new cases, except some loopholes in the lower court which they point out at the Supreme Court. What they submitted were all these, including the judgment of the tribunal and statement of claims by his lawyers. The Supreme Court Justices would look at all these and hold a conference and every Justice will make his or her opinion and possible minority judgment. In this case, it was unanimous. Atiku based his case on server. But, INEC said it did not use server. Atiku said he got to know about it through a whistle blower. The other ground which Atiku based his case was President Muhammadu Buhari’s qualifications. The president served in the Army and rose through the ranks. The Electoral Act did not say that a presidential candidate must be a School Certificate holder. President Buhari trained in Nigeria and overseas and he was certified. He rose to the position of a General and had governed the country before. This qualified him for leadership. Nigeria does not have to put qualifications in the first place when education is not free. You cannot say because a person is poor and could not be well educated, he cannot lead. Some people have been rejected because of academic qualifications and are made inferior. Some people are honest. People now fake certificates. That the honest people do not carry certificates does not mean they lack intelligence to govern. Our forefathers had no education, but they were good leaders. But, they educated their children. They had foresight in the process of leadership. Would you say the Supreme Court was right in its judgment as many have been criticising the judgment? The Supreme Court judgment was right. Many discerning minds will know that the grounds of the case could not hold water if it is presented before people without political bias. He question of if President Buhari’s first name is Muhammadu or Mohammed does not hold water. People change their names and sometimes there are typographic mistakes or errors. If the name is mistaken, it does not affect the person’s intelligence. Nigerians should be left to decide who they want to vote for. What is your advice to the Atiku Abubakar’s camp? Atiku’s camp should take everything with equanimity. They have lost, they have lost. They cannot eat their cake and have it. Politics of bitterness, smearing, blackmail does not pay. They should have known that from INEC declaration, they lost gallantly. They should go back to the drawing board and know the type of leader Nigerians want. What words do you have for President Buhari’s camp? President Buhari’s camp should be magnanimous in victory. The president should run the government of Nigerians. They should not look at smear campaign or for vengeance. They should face good governance. They should ensure equity and shun nepotism and political vices. Every Nigerian should be treated equally. There should not be discrimination. There should be equal opportunities for every Nigerian. What is your take on the probe instituted against the former Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, by the state House of Assembly and the decision of the court to halt it? It is a good development. I commend the Assembly for immediately acceding to the ruling of the court and suspend their probe, some other institutions would have thought they have all the powers and influence to do what they want to do. That is what can bring peace and harmony to Lagos State government. It will give legitimacy to the ruling party and the executive. It will also be clear that no one was interested in witch-hunting Ambode, but were honestly investigating the matter. The House should stop the probe because it will not put them in the right light, having joined the party to stop Ambode from doing his second term. If the cost of the buses were inflated, there was a committee in the House. What stopped them from finding that out, even when Ambode was in power? The House could have called the executive to order when Ambode was in power. That some of the buses are still in the port may be administrative lapses. The current executive should hasten to clear them. If there was misappropriation, there are procedures for bringing former governors to book. Remember that Joshua Dariye, Jolly Nyame and some others were sentenced. Even a former Inspector General of Police (IGP) and some political leaders have been punished. Whatever the Lagos House is doing now could be said to be politically motivated. They should not paint themselves black. The Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa is a perfect gentleman who has not been avaricious. He contributed to whatever achievements Ambode made during the four years he was on saddle. As a lawmaker of long standing, he also contributed to a lot of developments in the state. But, the lawmakers should come out clean that their action was not politically motivated. They should ensure that what they are doing is their duty and not that someone outside the House is goading them. What is your view on the 2020 budget as presented by President Muhammadu Buhari to the National Assembly? The good news is that it was presented on time for the National Assembly to do their work to pass it so that we can have January to December budget circle. This will give room for planning and the fear of the unknown will be reduced. The National Assembly will have the urge to examine the content to ensure that duplication and duplicity is reduced. For example, if we have budgets for defence, internal security and police, the lawmakers will crosscheck to check such duplications. At times, the National Assembly does not ask how the budget of the previous year was spent. They should ask how far the government went on performance and the unspent budget. Unspent budget should be retired. Whoever fails to retire his budget should be punished. The National Assembly should order the Accountant General, Auditor General and Minister of Finance to explain how Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) spend their budgets and return unspent ones. There must be due diligence. MDAs should defend allocations to them to ensure they have capacity to generate revenue. The National Assembly should interrogate the Debt Management Office (DMO) to account for every kobo owed by the Federal Government. If the debts do not worth paying back, the National Assembly should stop payment of such debts. Debt servicing should be genuine. Fake and adulterated debts should not be serviced. The National Assembly should ensure that money does not go to private pockets. Would you say the budget will be in favour of the common man? There is the fear that 70 percent of the budget meant for governance will go to private pockets. The 20 percent meant for capital budget could also end up not utilized on infrastructure. That is why roads, hospitals and schools are in shamble. The power sector gulps several billions of dollars yearly and there is no power. If the budget is well executed, it will favour the poor. Efforts should be made to ensure that debt servicing is real. Look at the P & ID debt. That should not be allowed to happen again. Even the judgment debts are cases that are deliberately lost because the large chunk of the costs against government comes into their pockets. There should be judicial oversight by an independent commission because the National Judicial Commission (NJC) does not perform well in this regard. Some of the judgment money go against government and litigants get such money into the pockets of those who wrongly prosecuted or defended. The cases of corruption are lost because the prosecution is compromised in favour of the defendant, hence some wriggle out from the charges against them. The prosecution lacks due diligence and some cases are lost and corrupt persons pay money to the prosecutor. The budget should be examined, especially the judgment money. The accounts of the Ministry of Justice should be well scrutinized, especially as it concerns judgment money and debts. It will be gradual for government to have balanced budget, when less will go to recurrent and more to capital expenditure. Too many people are being paid, hence many states cannot look after themselves because of what they get from the Federation Account. They do not use their internally generated revenue (IGR) well, but siphon them into private pockets. For people to be well taken care of, the capital budget should be more than recurrent. Then, there will be money for infrastructure and ease of doing business will be available and the environment will accommodate economic activities more. The National Assembly should ensure that the budget is skewed towards the benefit of the people. How do you see the proposed increase of VAT and reintroduction of the toll gates along federal highways? Both are indices of government’s failure. It is an indication that the government has got its wits end in funding critical sectors of the economy. They should not suffer the same people suffering the inefficiency of public utilities. The people seem to have developed shock absorber even when government is suffering them. People pay taxes, rates and these have not reflected in their lifestyle. There are no social services, no good roads. The trailers will fall off and goods are damaged and vehicles destroyed and people die or lose their limbs. These are due to failure of government. Yet government wants to exploit the people. This is unfair and should not be allowed. Toll gates were destroyed by former President Olusegun Obasanjo administration because the money realised were not well utilised. People did not manage the money well, but they go into private pockets. It is bad to exploit people through collection of tolls, even when the roads are not fixed. Even when they are fixed, it is with taxpayers’ money, same with the VAT. The people who generate resources providing power, pay their taxes, paying more VAT is exploitation. The rich get richer and the poor are more exploited. It is unfair to the citizens. The people now feel they do not have government that takes care of them. Government should not push the people too hard. The people can strike back and the Irish Spring may be a child’s play. Those working with President Muhammadu Buhari do not value the interest of the poor despite promises by the president. People lose so much money by repairing their utilities and vehicles skid off the roads because of poor roads. These are caused by government negligence and government should pay compensations. This is unfair style of governance. In what ways could the cost of governance be reduced, bearing in mind Senator Rochas Okorocha’s suggestion that the Senate be reduced to one member per state and the House of Representatives three members per state? About three or four years ago, we at CACOL suggested that we adopt the way of Senegal, which did away with their Senate and reduced the salary of their lawmakers. A lot of people see government as an industry and abandon their trade and businesses. They go into government to get rich. People attach themselves to public officers to get rich. Nigerians are getting lazier by the day. That accounts for the humongous amount legislators take. Reducing cost of governance does not mean reducing the structure of government. The Senate does not do more than what the House of Representatives do. We can do away with the Senate. The House of Representatives is more representative of the people. Taking care of the representatives should be the responsibility of their constituents who should determine what the salaries of their lawmakers should be. It is their responsibility to determine what the take-home pay and allowances of the legislators and the aides. The idea of government paying everybody at all levels has made people to become lazy in raising funds, even at state and local government levels. People in Local governments should sit down and determine how to take care of their state lawmakers at both state and local government levels. Every state should contribute to the centre, every local government should in the same way contribute to the state. This should be the way to restructure the federation. Some of us suggested scrapping of state governments while local governments should contribute to the centre.  That is the only way to reduce cost of governance and people will be active in generating income. Everyone will know how to hold their representatives responsible and accountable. The National Assembly, especially the Senate cannot legislate themselves out of office and the executive cannot remove them from the constitution. That is why we advocate for a Sovereign National Conference (SNC), which should be the beginning of true nationhood, instead we will continue to be a contrived geographic expression which people will not take care of. President Buhari should convene a SNC to consider all systems, decide on revenue generation and allocations to different sections of the economy. This will reduce cost of governance there will still be some oligarchic leaders who may want to control government, but they could be checked, instead of the type of unitary system we are running now.