Uyo – The National Legal Adviser of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Emmanuel Enoidem, has described the hate speech bill being considered by the National Assembly as criminal and an insult to the the country. He likened the bill to Decree 4 enacted by the military government in the country, saying the provisions of the bill would impact negatively on the nation. He, therefore, urged the press to rise against it, saying if the bill becomes law, the press would be its first victim. Enoidem, who said this in a chat with newsmen in Uyo yesterday, alleged that the bill was a strategy to shut the mouths of Nigerians against the current hardship in the country and pave way for President Muhammadu Buhari to return to rule the country for a third term. His words, “The hate speech bill being considered by the National Assembly is the worst form of freedom of speech, freedom of conscience bill that has ever been proposed by any country in the world, whether under military or otherwise. It has a very negative intention, it is criminal in action. “This is akin to Decree 4. But if you look at Decree 4 and compare it to the provision of the proposed bill, you will know that it has more negative provision than the one proposed by the military. “Who defines what is hate speech? If the press keeps quite about it, they would become the first victim. It is better we stand up and speak against this evil that is coming.” The bill is very insulting to the common conscience of the country, it is very insulting to the image of the country, and is very damaging to all of us. We need to stand up and speak against it as a people “This bill has two major focus in view: It is going to be a major instrument if Buhari fails to translate himself into third term, because that proposal is in the mill, he will use it as a religious weapon against those who would come against the Islamization of Nigeria. You don’t have to believe it, but it will happen. He alleged that the N100 billion recently released by the Federal Government to Miyetti Allah was a subtle plan to initiate the Islamization of the country through the acquisition of lands. He said the demand for the implementation of the plot was the sum of N150b, and maintained that the federal government was planning to make up for the balance. The PDP legal adviser caution landowners across communities in Nigeria to be alert and to resist strangers who may approach them for the acquisition of large expanses of land, as vendors, according to him, have started scouting the country to acquire land under the pretense of building hospitals and other infrastructure.