Barrister Roland Oweilaemi Pereotubo is the President, Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide, and President General, All Ethnic Nationalities in the Niger Delta. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the new board and interim management committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), among other issues. Excerpt: The Niger Delta Development Corporation (NDDC) operations are said to be adversely by high level corruption. How do you see the institution of a probe of the agency by President Muhammadu Buhari? That is a welcome development. We applaud President Buhari for agreeing to carry out forensic audit on the commission. NDDC is swimming on a cesspool of corruption. The audit report should be made public for us to scrutinise it. Apart from the audit, we are also requesting that the president should put his eyes on the commission in order to checkmate the rampant corrupt practices. NDDC, to many of the appointees if not all of them, is a farm they harvest quick wealth. Contracts are awarded just to enrich politicians and their cronies. The purpose for which it is established has been defeated. This is a commission that the Ijaw youths sacrificed their lives to get. How do you see the situation where the president forwarded a list of the new NDDC Board to the Senate for clearance and the Minister of the Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio, appointed an Interim Management Board of the same agency few hours after? Before I answer that question, let me clear an impression. The issue of the Interim Management Board of the commission in my finding was not appointed by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Sen. Godswill Akpabio. It was Mr. President that used his presidential power under the Act to appoint them. Of course, you know that it is President Buhari’s discretion to constitute the management board. I think that what might have informed the President’s decision was because of the forensic audit he is currently carrying out on the commission. Maybe, he just wanted people of unquestionable character to steer the commission pending when the audit is completed so that the substantive board will have clear direction. I don’t think the President has any intention of causing legal crisis in the agency. The substantive Board members, I don’t think should have anything to worry about. The President that appointed them, forwarded their names to the Senate, which has already confirmed, knew what he did. Since the Senate has cleared them after screening, I believe the President will let Nigerians know what will be his next line of action. The substantive board is a statutory requirement, while the Interim Management Committee is more of ceremonial functions. Where there seems to be a conflict of interest, of course, the statutory requirement takes precedent. With the recent killing and clash involving Ogbe-Ijoh and Aladja communities in the Delta State, do you think the Delta State government and the community leaders are doing enough for peace to return in the troubled area? It is unfortunate these communities are still engaging in this communal conflict. The Delta State government has not done enough to curtail the crisis. If only the Okowa government can summon the courage to implement the reports of the various panels of inquiry, I don’t think there would be anymore crisis therein. The simple answer to the crisis is the demarcation of the boundary between the two communities. Ogbe-Ijoh people are ready for the demarcation but their neighbour always threatened the government into submission. IYC is not happy with the way the government is handling the matter with a kid glove. This crisis has almost caused a fratricidal war between the Ijaws and the Urhobos, which would have been a death knell to the entire Delta State. The recent murder of Ogbe-Ijoh boy allegedly by Aladga youth is condemnable. That case should be treated as an isolated case of murder. The perpetrators should be fished out for the law to take its cause. The Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Delta State State governor on Security, Comrade Ezekiel Daniel, recently called on multinationals to help empower Niger Delta youths. Would you say the call was justified and that the oil companies have not been living up to expectation in his regard? The call for oil companies to empower Niger Delta youths is not a bad idea. The oil companies have failed in their corporate social responsibilities to the oil bearing communities. That is one of the reasons youth restiveness keeps lingered in spite of governments’ cosmetic interventions. Still on youth empowerment, what should the Niger Delta states do to ensure that jobless youths in the region are off the streets? Let the governors effectively utilise the 13% Federal Allocation in addition to other statutory allocations. Ineffective management of the resources are the reason why we are still like this. The army of unemployed youths in the region is a threat to peace. If only the governments at all levels implement Chapter Two of the Constitution, which is the fundamental obligations and directive policies of the state, the country would been fared better in our 20 years of democratic sojourn. The framers of the constitution made them non justifiable to allow those in government escape being held to account. We have a long way to go. To what extent is Governor Ifeanyi Okowa succeeding in the implementation of his SMART Agenda? Well, to my assessment, Governor Okowa is doing well in terms of service delivery. I can credit him in many areas such as road constructions, human empowerment and security, among others. My concern is the riverine areas. As a riverine dweller, our communities have not been properly affected. That is not to say the governor has not done anything for the riverine communities. Local Government Aeas like Burutu which is highest oil producing LGA supposed to get priority attention of the state government. We should not be begging the government for development. We desire that our communities be connected with road networks, while gas turbine should be built in the riverine areas for our communities to enjoy stead power supply since the hydrocarbon gas is being flared away. How do you see the Supreme Court decision on the 2019 presidential election petition filed by the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar? The Supreme Court being highest court of the land has validated Buhari’s mandate. This is not a time to apportion blames. We need to forge ahead. The opposition parties, I believe, have accepted the outcome in good faith. My sincere advice to President Buhari is to use his victory to unite the country. He should consider himself as the father of the nation. Nigeria is his single constituency. Therefore, he should not discriminate Nigerians across voting lines. I take it that his victory is the will of God Almighty. Thus, Mr. President should rule the country with the fear of God.