Two domestic workers who allegedly connived and stole a Cuban Diamond neck chain, a Frank Muller and Rolex wrist watches worth N243 million belonging to their employer in Lagos were on Wednesday arrested in Borno State, two weeks after committing the crime. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the suspects, Alex Obinyan,39, a cleaner and Ayuba Samson,29,  a car washer, were arrested after they had sold the Cuban Diamond neck chain and Frank Muller wrist watch for N6m and N4m respectively in Lagos and Abuja. The identity of their employer which is being concealed for security purposes is said to be a popular celebrity with vast investment in Lekki, Lagos. Obinyan, sources disclosed had spent over eight years working and living with the celebrity in Lekki before the incident. It was gathered that his colleague, Ayuba, started working at the celebrity residence only two months ago after returning from Chibok, his home town. They earned N80,000 and N50,000 monthly. Police sources said the suspects and the buyers of the jewelry were brought to office of the Rapid Response Squad headquarters, by the Decoy Team of the agency in an unbranded vehicle after eight days of painstaking investigative activities in Abuja and Borno State. The suspects, who were captured on CCTV leaving the celebrity’s residence have confessed stealing the Cuban Diamond Chain valued at N54 million, a Frank Moller Wrist watch worth N140 million and a Rolex wrist watch worth N49 million. According to Obinyan, they sold the Cuban Diamond Chain in Eti – Osa, Lagos for N6 million while the Frank Moller watch was sold in Abuja for N4 million. He said, “I have been working with him (celebrity) in Lekki for over eight years. I am used to moving those valuables around the house wherever I found them in his car. I have never thought of stealing them. “When Samson came and saw me with the gold chain laced with diamonds, he convinced me that we could make a fortune from stealing them. He was not with us before. Within two months of his stay, we planned to steal these things. “Oga was in the sitting room. We stole the chain along with a Frank Moller wrist watch and a Rolex wrist watch. Before escaping, we already got a buyer for the chain. We sold the Cuban Diamond chain in Eti – Osa for N6 million. “The following day, we escaped to Abuja where we bought a Toyota Corolla. We sold the Frank Moller watch in Abuja for N4 million to raise more money for our escape to Borno State, where we intended to start new lives and businesses. “Obinya in his letter to the celebrity informing him of his departure, (reads in parts, un – edited) “…I know you will be shock why I write to you but the truth is that due to some quite observation I have come to a notice that you are not a person that someone can rely on. “I have been patient enough to see if you can help me but you keep on promising me up to now there is no avail. “To cut the story short, I have decided to stop working for you, and I’m sorry to mention that but you have to bear with me. I have gone for good, because I cannot continue to work for a person that doesn’t care about me and doesn’t value me for the rest of my life.” Commander RRS, DCP Olatunji Disu  who confirmed the story said the suspects were arrested in Maiduguri in their two bedroom flat which they rented with the proceeds of their loot. He said also arrested with them were the buyers of the Cuban diamond chain, Haruna Abdullahi and that of the Frank Moller’s wrist watch, Abubakar Buhari. Recovered from the suspects were a Rolex watch, two brand new keke Napep and a Toyota Corolla and the sum of $2200. The suspects he said had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti for further investigations. Commenting on the development, the commander urged Lagosians to always do a background check of all their workers before employing them.