LAGOS – The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has set up a National Air Navigation Planning Unit in order to domesticate and implement recommendations of international aviation bodies. The unit is also to ensure total security of the nation’s Communication, Navigation and Surveillance/ Air Traffic Management (CNS/ATM) facilities and prevent them from hackers. A statement by Mr. Khalid Emele, the General Manager, Public Affairs, NAMA said that the unit would see to the implementations of recommendations from the National Aviation System Block Upgrade (ASBU) Plan, National Air Traffic Management Plan as well as the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) new concepts in the country. According to him, the unit was empowered to oversee the domestication and replication of ICAO global and regional plans for the enhancement of air navigation in the country. To ensure its immediate takeoff, NAMA said it had trained 20 personnel to run the newly created unit. Emele hinted that the training focused on Global Air Navigation Plan and its priorities, Global Aviation Safety Plan, Global Aviation Security Plan, National Air Navigation Plan and the National Aviation System Block Upgrade Implementation Plan. He said: “Specifically, the training focused on ASBU Block 18 Modules some of which include Airport Collaborative Decision Making; Performance Based Navigation with Vertical Guidance; Continuous Descent Operations and Continuous Climb Operations. Others are Surface Movement Radar and Ground Control; Arrival and Departure Management Systems; Digital Aeronautical Information Management (AIM), System Wide Information Management, Flight Information Collaborative Environment, as well as the strategic objectives of the different modules, their applicability and cost benefit analysis.” He explained that Matthew Pwajok, Director of Operations, NAMA was one of the facilitator for the training. Pwajok, he noted said the job ahead of the team was both strategic and critical as they would be researching to define future requirements of NAMA and airspace user requirements, in order to enhance airspace capacity, air traffic management capacity, efficiency and economy and safety of flight operations. He emphasised that in order to encourage traffic growth into the country’s airspace, it was important to develop strategic growth plans, be sensitive to airline equipage and their user requirements.