ABUJA – In Nigeria, not less than 47 children and adolescents die every day from AIDS-related causes. These statistics are according to 2018 global snapshot on children with HIV and AIDS released by UNICEF ahead of World AIDS Day. With only 54 per cent of children aged zero to 14 living with HIV/AIDS, receiving life-saving antiretroviral therapy, this low access to treatment and limited prevention efforts, according to the report, are the leading causes for these deaths. The report further reads: “Progress has been made in the battle against HIV and AIDS – but we must do more, especially when it comes to Nigerian children and adolescents,” said UNICEF Nigeria Country Representative Peter Hawkins. Testing and treating for children and adolescents is a matter of life and death – and we must choose life,” he added. According to the latest global data, regional disparities in access to treatment among children living with HIV is very high with West and Central Africa faring worst. Access is highest in South Asia at 91 per cent, followed by the Middle East and North Africa (73 per cent), Eastern and Southern Africa (61 per cent), East Asia and the Pacific (61 per cent), Latin America and the Caribbean (46 per cent) and West and Central Africa (28 per cent). Access to treatment by children living with HIV in Nigeria is only 35 per cent. Mothers’ access to antiretroviral therapy to prevent the transmission of the virus to their babies has increased globally, however, reaching 82 per cent, up from 44 per cent less than 10 years ago. This figure in Nigeria is 44 per cent, up from 22 per cent in 2009 “It is good news that more and more pregnant women are receiving antiretroviral treatment to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV, which has helped avert about two million new HIV infections and prevented the deaths of over one million children under five years old around the world,” said Hawkins. “But we need to see the same kind of progress in ensuring that children who already have the virus are receiving lifesaving treatment. HIV programmes need to be fully funded and equipped to preserve, protect and improve the quality of life for Nigerian children. We cannot and must not abandon these children,” said Hawkins. Additional data from the report shares that in 2018, around 160,000 children aged zero to nine were newly infected with HIV. 140,000 adolescent girls were newly infected with HIV in 2018, compared to 50,000 adolescents previously recorded.