`LAGOS – Fifty three years after his death, the spirit of late Premier of defunct Northern Region, Sir Ahmadu Bello, came alive at the weekend in Lagos as the former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode Ibiyinka George, was awarded the title of ‘Garkuwan Matasan Najeriya’. Garkuwan Matasan Najeriya means “Shield of the Youth of the entire Northern Nigeria”. It was a glorious day for George, a former military governor of old Ondo State and a Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON) who was celebrated by the leadership of the Northern Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN). To the delight of the mammoth crowd at the Lugard, Ikoyi, Lagos venue of the event, George, who also holds the title of Atona Oodua of the Source was decorated as the Grand Patron of NYCN, presented with a leadership certificate as a philanthropist par excellence, while his wife, Mrs. Roli George, was decorated with the medal of bravery for her motherly role in the country. The NYCN delegation was led by the President, Abubakar Isah. With Isah were the Secretary, Michael Shekaru; Kogi State Co-ordinator, Hussaini Shaibu; Kano State Co-ordinator, Aminu Haruna; Programme Co-ordinator, Salihu Idris; Financial Secretary, Isah Ahmed and others. As some in the crowd were shouting the name ‘Ahmadu Bello’, others were screaming ‘Bode George, Defender of the Masses’, ‘Emir of Lagos’, ‘Sultan of South-West’. Abubakar Isah said Ahmadu Bello was known for his selfless service to the Northern Region and Nigeria, saying George was bestowed the honour for having the same quality. “We have seen in Chief Olabode George, our father, the quality of caring more about what other people need and want than about what he himself needs. From the Navy, to when he was governor of Ondo State, to the Peoples Democratic Party and now as a National Leader, all his life has been about the people. That is the quality Sir Ahmadu Bello was known for and Chief Olabode George is flying the flag of selfless service to humanity”. While urging Nigerian leaders to emulate George, he revealed that the leadership of NYCN decided to honour him because “leaders who had done well should be appreciated and encouraged to spur them into contributing more”. He declared that George was not like some leaders who had taken away things that belonged to the people. “Nigerian youths should be able to spot these elders who had done the nation proud and recognise them. We have come all the way from the North to honour Chief George because he is not an accidental leader but one meant to be a leader, who served the nation in various capacities, as a military leader without any iota of fear, but boldly confronting the enemies of the nation. “He has contributed so much before the advent of democratic rule and even during the dispensation of democracy, he did not relent in his effort to see the development of the country in no small measures. Those who have built bridges from one community to another to see that communities relate peacefully in a united manner deserve honour. It is our responsibility in my own generation to come and tell this category of people that they have done well. It is in this strength that we have made this visit today to honour Chief George. “A man who has said that the unity of Nigeria is of greater purpose to him than anything else should be recognised. We have come to tell him that the youth of Northern Nigeria are solidly behind him. “We believe in his ideology. He has contributed greatly to the community where he was military administrator, established institutions of learning and that community, as of today, has produced millions of graduates. “He has produced presidents in this country. He campaigned for our brothers in the Northern part of the country to become president. He was the Campaign Director of the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. He did that without any iota of diversity. We, the youth in the North, believe in him”. George, who was traditionally dressed in his title, appreciated the youth for the gesture done him. He charged those fanning embers of disunity for selfish gain to remember that power was transient, maintaining that every Nigerian, irrespective of ethnic or religious differences must work together for the good of the nation. He told the crowd that his best friend ‘remains a Northerner, Admiral Murtala Nyako’. He also called for national unity, saying youths are better placed to keep the country together. “A human being is a human being, whether you are Chinese or American, whether you are black, white or yellow. But let us work together in this country. We should shun those divisive statements and pronouncements and embrace peace and unity. “I want to appeal to the younger generation. We, the older ones, have made small mistake. We have not succeeded. “But, I plead with you, you can succeed. There are no differences. Yes, there are cultural differences but who chose where he is to be born? God decided where you would be born. You don’t know where you will go in the next round, you can’t determine that”. George said every Nigerian, irrespective of tribal, ethnic or religious differences must work together. “We must work together. I don’t see differences. In fact, my great grand uncle, Baba Herbert Macaulay, was struggling to unite this country against the British. He died in 1946 when he returned by train from Kano. He had gone there, lobbying people to come together. So, it just didn’t start today. “There is hardly any state in this country that I have not been to. Let’s build a nation; let us build an edifice; let us build an economic empire that all youths of this country would come and enjoy in the future. No generation can finish it but if you keep dividing people and the nation, one day you will pack up. Will you still keep on dividing when you are away?” At the event were former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Senator Kofoworola Akerele-Bucknor, former Transport Minister, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, Dr. Remi Akitoye, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, state chairman of the PDP in Lagos and other and leaders of the party in the state.