Ilorin – Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu has assured of the federal government’s preparedness to make portable water available in the country without waiting for the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG). Adamu stated this in an interview with newsmen on Thursday during the commissioning of Rehabilitated and upgrading of waterworks at Malete and Sobi communities in Kwara State. Speaking at the projects funded by the federal government and constructed by the Turning Point Engineering Company, the minister described water as life, saying access to it remains a fundamental right of every person. He said though he did not agree with the notion that water is free he consider access to it as a right every human being is fundamentally entitled to. Adamu said in view of the importance of water to human existence, the government would remain committed to the provision of it for people of the country without waiting for the dictate of the SDG. He stated: “Anything pertaining to water and sanitation is very critical to us because water is life. It is the most basic ingredient of life. We are doing everything we can that Nigeria meets its target for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With or without sustainable development goals people are entitled to clean water and sanitation. It is a basic human right, although people tend to misunderstand it that water is free but I don’t subscribe to that. It is the fundamental human of everybody to be given access to clean water for health and development,. The rehabilitated and upgraded waterworks are expected to serve the two communities and meet the challenges presented by a swell in the population figure of the communities, while the one in Malete upgraded to extend services to the Kwara State University (KWASU). The minister said it was the commitment of the government to guarantee access to water by the residents that made it intervened in the funding of the waterworks as property of the Kwara State government. “This kind of scheme means a lot. We have a University here and students here. It is important for them to have all the basic requirements for water and sanitation. Without adequate water supply, they cannot have a clean campus, toilets and others. That is why the government will always want to invest money for the provision of water. “I hope that the beneficiaries, Kwara State University (KWASU) and the State Water Corporation will value this asset/project and keep it in a sustainable way,” he stated Kayode Sangoyomi, Managing Director of Turning Point Engineering who spoke during the commissioning of the Malete waterwork, said work done under the project include construction of 2MCM capacity earth dam embankment, installation of 50, 000 per hour package water treatment plant, construction of 160, 000 litres treated/blackwash prestressed steel elevates clear water tank and construction of 250, 000 litres folded steel overhead tank at KWASU