LAGOS – The Federal Government has been advised to ignore the call in some quarters to combine the assets of Arik Air and Aero Contractors to form a new national carrier for Nigeria in its bid to reestablish a new national airline for the country. The government was also urged to focus on establishing a new national carrier for the country from the beginning, warning that any attempt to make Arik Air or Aero Contractors a national carrier would lead to international litigations, which may be unresolved for several years. Mr. Chris Aligbe, aviation analyst stated this yesterday in an interview with aviation journalists in Lagos. Chris insisted that the proposal by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) to make Arik Air the new national carrier for Nigeria was unnecessary, stressing that it may be a step to truncate the ongoing Nigeria Air project. It would be recalled that Ahmed Kuru, the Managing Director of AMCON had at the National Assembly defence budget, called on the Federal Government to merge Arik and Aero and use them to float a national carrier, rather than starting a brand new one, which has been on the works for the last four years. Kuru did say that the two airlines had been positioned for profitability and wanted the government to take advantage of their current positions. Aligbe who was also the spokesman of the defunct national carrier, Nigeria Airways, greed that Nigeria required a new national airline, but not the ones in the status of Arik Air and Aero Contractors. According to Aligbe, Nigeria was losing about $1.3bn annual ticket sales to foreign airlines as capital flight out of the country, saying that the establishment of a new national carrier would save such humongous losses for the country. He mentioned countries like Uganda, Tanzania and Ghana, Republic of Benin and a few others as countries that were on the verge of setting up new na- CRUDE OIL PRICES WTI Crude 54.01 +0.02 +0.04% Brent Crude 62.99 -0.30 -0.47% Mars US 58.99 +1.40 +2.43% Opec Basket 60.88 -0.16 -0.26% Canadian Index 36.50 -0.18 -0.49% DME Oman 61.80 +1.63 +2.71% Urals 57.85 -1.50 -2.53% Mexican Basket 57.85 +1.76 +3.14% Indian Basket 60.14 -0.88 -1.44% tional airlines, saying that this had undermined the position of some stakeholders who hitherto argued that national carriers were now out of fashion. He said: “AMCON’s proposal is therefore an unnecessary distraction at best and, at worst, an uncanny step to truncate the Nigeria Air Project. Kuru took his proposal to the National Assembly, having failed to secure consent from the Ministry of Aviation. Was it in good faith? Or an attempt to armtwist? Any which way, the National Assembly has no statutory/constitutional right to compel the Ministry’s acceptance of Kuru’s fantasy. “My simple advice to Sen. Hadio Sirika, the Minister of Aviation is to just ignore Kuru and his AMCON and move on. The only and major success of AMCON as an institution has been to give the banks a debt-clean slate. Since Central BANK OF Nigeria (CBN) and Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) can do this better, AMCON is an unnecessary and poor duplication. It should be wound up.” Aligbe declared that Aero and Arik did not belong to the government as insinuated in some quarters, stressing that if they were, they would have been under aviation and not AMCON as it is today.