LAGOS – As Nigerians eagerly anticipate the commencement of the FIBA Africa pre-Olympic qualifiers, head coach of senior women national team, D’Tigress, Otis Hughley has said that the team is fully focused on the task ahead. After masterminding the team to the 2019 Afrobasket title which has seen the D’Tigress climb to the number one spot in Africa according to the latest FIBA ranking, Hughley said qualification for the 2020 Olympics Qualifying Tournament (OQT) is not negotiable. Speaking from the team’s base in Maputo, Hughley confirmed that preparation is going on as planned with all invited players ready to give their best when they start their pre-qualifiers campaign on Thursday (today). “We are aware of the task ahead of us. The culture of basketball is fast growing in Nigeria and the people are expecting us to win every time we file out. “These expectations have continued to spur us to want to give our all and represent the country the best that we can,” Hughley was quoted to have said. Speaking further, Hughley said, “We must continue to show the world that we deserved to be the best in Africa and also become one of the best in the world.” According to him, the team ranked 16th in the world can get better and climb higher while achieving greater things as a group. The African Qualifiers for the Pre-Qualifying Tournament of the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games will run from November 14 to 17. Teams will play a round-robin format in their specific groups with the winner of Group A facing the second team in Group B while the winner of Group B will come up against the second ranked team in Group A in the Semi-Finals. The two winners of the semifinals will not play a final as they will automatically advance to the 16-nation FIBA Women’s Olympic Qualifying Tournament (WOQT) where teams will be divided into four groups in February 2020. The top three teams from each of the three WOQTs will qualify for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. Prior to this format, the winner of the FIBA Women’s AfroBasket automatically qualified for the Summer Olympics. The D’Tigress of Nigeria have been drawn with Mozambique and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in Group A while Senegal will face Mali and Angola in Group B. Nigeria will play its first match against DR Congo on Thursday (today) at the Pavilhao do Mazaquene in Maputo before facing host- Mozambique on Saturday, November 16 at the same venue.