ABUJA – Samaila Dahuwa, chieftain of the All  Progressives Congress (APC) and aspirant to the office of the National Secretary of the party has declared as premature the pressure being mounted on the ruling party over which part of the country it will zone the seat of  president in 2023. He submitted that time is not ripe for discussions in that direction. He, however, assured that the leadership of the party will ensure that it  identifies a credible and  acceptable presidential candidate to hoist the party’s flag in 2023 elections. Dahuwa, also restated his conviction that the party will benefit if it allows Bauchi State produce the secretary of APC as it moves to fill vacant positions in the party’s National Working Committee, noting that the conditions that necessitated the zoning of the national secretary position to Yobe state previously no longer exist. Speaking to journalists at the weekend in Abuja , Dahuwa said the party cannot afford to  lose  Bauchi State in subsequent polls in view of the  highest votes it gave to the President in the last election, saying unfortunately lost the governorship election to the Peoples Democratic Party. The APC National Secretary leading aspirant also urged  the party’s leadership to quickly resolve all its internal issues by filling  vacant positions to prepare for future engagements  and be in the best fighting force ahead of 2023. “Positions were zoned to the North East and they were divided with in the North East through consensus. Now the condition that led to all those decisions are no longer there and since the conditions had seized to exist we believe those zoning agreements also seize to exist. “As I said earlier, party offices are zoned in order to give the party political advantage. I will give you an example, when the National Youth Leader was zoned to Bauchi and Gombe, we the people of Bauchi decided without anybody asking to tell the people of Gombe to take the position of the National Youth leader and at that time Bauchi state had APC government and Gombe state had PDP government, we believe giving the position to Gombe will facilitate and give emphasis to the party in the state to work hard and take the government which they did and was actually positive. “What we are saying in Bauchi now is as it stands Yobe state has government and Senate government, Borno state has APC government apart from other appointments they have the Chief Whip of the House of Representatives. Gombe State has APC government, they have National Youth Leader of the APC, Adamawa state doesn’t have APC government but they have National Vice Chairman of APC and they also have the secretary to the government who is also a politician. “ It is very important to note that the position is different from a non politician in position. Taraba state don’t have APC in government but Taraba has never been an APC state. I can tell you if you give them the National Chairman they won’t vote for APC. So,  it is going to be a waste of priority. Bauchi state has the highest votes in the whole of North East for President Buhari. Bauchi has been in the forefront of agitation of the APC since the coming back of this administration. “What we are saying is as it stands today Bauchi state has nothing in the position of the National working committee of the party, no position in the National Assembly and no government and still we are the highest in votes unless APC wants to lose Bauchi state and I am sure APC doesn’t want to lose the state. Let me conclude by saying you can lose Kano state or Lagos state and still win the presidency of the country. Since Tafa Balewa up till today there has never been a president that won presidency without winning Bauchi state,” he said. On the 2023 presidential ticket he said that APC  will get it right. “I don’t think it is time to start talking of where the presidency should go. What I can only say to you now with all honesty is that APC will fly the best candidate that will win election for the party and will be acceptable to all Nigerians. That I can tell you without any doubt but I think it isn’t time for us to talk about where the presidency is going to be zoned to but I think we should position ourselves so that we can effectively bring in a candidate that will be acceptable to all Nigerians.”