Lagos  – A London Commercial High Court presided over by Justice Christopher Butcher on Tuesday ordered the Federal Government to provide a new bank guarantee in 48 hours in respect to payment of an additional £30, 000 to Process and Industrial Development Limited (P&ID) by way of cost. The new cost will be paid within 21 days. This is the second of such costs ordered against the Federal Government in favour of P&ID. This latest order as to cost is coming on the heels of the Federal Government’s application for stay of enforcement of an arbitral award in the sum of $9.6 billion, which had been granted the company in January 2018 by a London Arbitral Tribunal over a failed gas contract between Nigeria and P&ID. Following the confirmation of the award by the London Commercial High Court in August, the Federal Government had applied for a stay over a complaint of “substantial fraud,” for which the court on September 26 granted a conditional stay. Under the terms of the conditional stay, the court ordered the government to within 14 days, from the time of grant, pay P&ID the interim cost of the proceedings assessed at £250,000. It also ordered Nigeria to pay into the coffers of the court the sum of $200 million as security for the stay within 60 days (November 25 deadline). Failure on the part of the government to comply with the stay condition would have entitled P&ID to apply for the immediate enforcement of the award against Nigeria. It would be recalled that in early October, the Federal Government did fulfil the first condition of the stay when it paid P&ID the sum of £250,000 as costs. Speaking on the payment of the sum by the government, Abubakar Malami, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, said: “You know that there are two sets of money involved. There is the $200 million security payment and there is also the £250,000 cost. “We have paid the cost, which is £250,000, to P&ID. The Nigerian government paid that cost out of respect for the court.” On November 23, it was reported that ahead of the November 25 deadline, the Federal Government would precipitously provide bank guarantee for the other aspect of the condition, namely the $200 million security. The government’s legal team on the said date acknowledged that President Muhammadu Buhari had authorised the steps to provide a bank guarantee for the $200 million in security that was ordered by the court in September. The Ministry of Finance received approval to proceed with obtaining the bank guarantee. Thus, it submitted a request to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to proceed with procuring the bank guarantee. The CBN would also submit a request to an unnamed foreign correspondent bank to issue the bank guarantee from London and provide the relevant information to the court ahead of the deadline. As a follow-up, Malami has filed a witness statement before the court claiming that “substantial fraud has been uncovered” which goes to “impugn the arbitration agreement, the arbitration proceedings, and the very awards granted P&ID thus far.” Hence, its enforcement must permanently be put in abeyance. He stated that “the context of this application is the recent discovery of evidence, obtained by the Nigerian Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) that the Gas Supply and Processing Agreement (GSPA) and arbitral awards were procured by bribery and corruption.” Moreover, that the agreement is a “suspect contract” involving “collusion, corruption, embezzlement, fraud, bid rigging and the conduct of sham litigation.” Reacting to these claims, P&ID stressed that the claims were mere disingenuous posturing being orchestrated by the government to avoid payment of the award.