Kaduna – As one of the pioneer schools in Kaduna, St Anne’s celebrates its 60th year anniversary, the head mistress of the school, Rev. Sis Monica Onwunali, has disclosed that the civil war and the crises in the state have been part of the school’s challenges. She said the school, which started as senior primary boarding school for girls by the Missionary Sisters of Our Lady of Apostles, was established in1959. Onwunali, who spoke at a media briefing on in Kaduna to herald the weeklong anniversary, disclosed that 31 girls formed the pioneer pupils while 12 headmistresses had so far passed through the school. According to her, the school, which started as a boarding school for girls alone, accommodated both Christian and Muslim pupils from inception to date. “Religion and ethnicity had never been a barrier in the school; till date, pupils are allowed to practise their religion freely,” she said. However, she lamented that the Nigerian Civil War and the series of crises that had erupted in the state over the years, adversely affected the fortunes of the school. She said those crises destroyed some of the vital and historic documents belonging to the school. “The Nigerian environment has been for and against education. St. Anne’s is not exceptional. The civil war and the crises in the state have been part of our challenges,” she added. All this, notwithstanding, the head mistress said the school having clocked 60 years, called for celebration. Among those to grace the occasion include, the Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammadu Sanusi II, wife of former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar (Reetd), Justice Fati Abubakar, as well as former Minister of Environment, Laurentia Mallam According to Rev. Sister Onwunali, the Emir, former first lady as well as the former minister, were among some of the pioneer pupils of the school. Other dignitaries, she said, include Governor Nasir el-Rufai, former Governor of Kaduna State, Ahmed Makarfi, Senator representing Kaduna Central, Senator Uba Sani and Etsu Chikun (formerly Sa Gbagyi) and Dr. Danjuma Barde.