Tony Ezimakor;Francis Onoiribholo
Abuja / Benin – Governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have asked Adams Oshiomhole, the embattled national chairman of the party, to immediately convene a meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC), or the National Caucus, for the purpose of addressing the issues that have rocked the party in recent times.
The governors advised Oshiomhole to tender his resignation should he be unable to convene the NEC meeting.
The latter action, they suggested, would spare the party the kind of embarrassment the crisis in Edo State had caused it.
Salihu Mohammed Lukman, Director General of the APC Governors’ Forum, revealed this decision of the governors in a statement he issued on Wednesday in Abuja.
Lukman, expressing the governors’ feeling in the statement, noted that Oshiomhole since coming on board had micro-managed the ruling party leaving festering crises across the states.
Speaking against the backdrop of the suspension of the APC national chairman after a vote of no confidence was passed in him by a faction of the party in Edo State, the governors urged leaders of the APC to rise to the challenges facing the party before more harm was done to its corporate image.
While blaming Oshiomhole’s leadership style for the failure of the party in Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi, and Adamawa states in the last general election, the governors warned that unless urgent steps were taken, the party may again lose its grip on Edo, Ondo, and in Bayelsa State where the party’s deputy governorship candidate had been dropped via a court’s decision.
In the statement entitled, ‘The Crises Rocking the APC and our Inconceivable Organisational Challenges: Urgent Call to our Leaders’, the APC governors lamented that the party had spent time and resources undermining itself instead of focusing on winning elections.
They traced this to the outright usurpation of the powers of the National Executive Council (NEC) and the National Caucus by the party’s National Working Committee (NWC), an administrative body under Oshiomhole.
Part of the statement read: “Information coming from Edo State indicates that members of the State Executive Council of the APC have passed a vote of no confidence in Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of our party, the APC.
“In so many respects, it could be argued, it is a natural outcome of unfolding power play between Comrade Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki since June 2019 with the contentious inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly.
“Possible retaliatory response from both Comrade Oshiomhole and groups such as Edo Peoples Movement who are loyal to Comrade Oshiomhole should be expected. In other words, there could be counter pronouncement suspending Governor Obaseki.
“Side by side with the news of the vote of no confidence was also the discomforting report of the Federal High Court judgment in Abuja disqualifying Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo as our deputy governorship candidate for the November 16, 2019, Bayelsa election.
“While expecting that every necessary step will be taken to vacate the judgment, it is very depressing for every committed party member to be subjected to such ignominious reality, which only reminds us of our reckless conducts in states like Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa, which chiefly gave away electoral victories to PDP.
“Instead of focusing on working to win elections, we are busy undermining ourselves. All these are ominous signs that we are about to re-enact the Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa experiences in Bayelsa. It is Bayelsa today, Anambra, Edo and Ondo are being setup for similar experiences.
“Somehow, unfortunately, the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party, which is the organ vested with the statutory responsibility of responding to all these challenges appear to be suspended.
“The last time it met was August 2018. In its place, the National Working Committee (NWC), which is an administrative organ with the responsibility of implementing decisions of NEC and other higher organs seems to have usurped the powers of NEC.
“Sadly, even the NWC, as at today, is a shadow of itself, as it has lost many members either on account of appointment into government or controversial suspension. For instance, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, deputy national chairman (South), is today a Minister of the Federal Republic. Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, deputy national chairman (North) is allegedly suspended. Alh. Inuwa Abdulkadir, national vice chairman (North West) is similarly suspended.
“We may recall that in June 2019, the NWC allegedly suspended Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN). During the 2019 general elections, on account of the roles of former Governors Rochas Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun, against the candidates of the party, they were similarly suspended. Whether all these actions are permissible by provisions of the APC’s constitution is highly contestable.
“Why should all these be allowed to happen? Why is it impossible to convene a NEC or even National Caucus meetings, which are supposed to hold every quarter to resolve all these issues?
“Why should the NWC under Comrade Oshiomhole continue to imagine that it can conduct affairs of the party without mandatory meetings of party organs?
“What legacy is Comrade Oshiomhole hoping to achieve as a national chairman by running the party in a way that suggests almost zero commitment to issues of party development?
“It is very painful for many of us who have had the privilege of being mentored by Comrade Oshiomhole to see him being devalued to a local factional leader from a very high pedestal of an illustrious national leader.
“As national chairman, Comrade Oshiomhole hardly appreciates that he now has a national constituency and not just a state constituency, which may have been responsible for his apparent intemperance in the handling of matters affecting Edo State.
“I wish he paid similar attention to handling of issues affecting Rivers and Zamfara states during the 2019 elections.
“In the current circumstance, nothing short of a NEC or National Caucus meeting of the party can resolve all our increasing organisational challenges as a party.
“It is either Comrade Oshiomhole respect the provision of party constitution and convene superior organ meeting to deliberate on all our challenges, or he should just accept his inability to manage the party and simply resign.
“Our national leaders must rise to the challenge facing us as a party and take all necessary measures to convene superior organ meetings to begin to resolve all our challenges as a party. The current public disgrace must end!” Party Headquarters Approves Suspension Of State Chairman
In another development, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC on Wednesday said it is setting up a fact-finding/reconciliation panel toward amicable resolution of the crisis in Edo APC.
The party in a statement said the decision at its meeting on Tuesday was reinforced by recent development in Edo which it said is highly disturbing.
Ironically, while the party is considering peaceful reconciliation of the warring factions of APC in Edo, it dramatically announced that it has endorsed the suspension of Edo State chairman of the party, Anselm Ojezua.
Faction of the party loyal to the national chairman had announced the suspension of Ojezua.
The APC NWC regretted that efforts so far made to reconcile warring parties through the chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi; chairman, Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) and governor of Kebbi State, Alhaji Abubakar Bagudu, has failed to yield desired result. Edo APC Ratifies Oshiomhole’s Suspension
Meanwhile, the Executive Council of the Edo State chapter of the APC on Wednesday ratified the suspension of the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, from the party in the state.
The decision was reached at an enlarged meeting of the council and other party chieftains with the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, in Benin City on Wednesday.
At the meeting, the leaders said the suspension of Comrade Oshiomhole became necessary because the national chairman had been deploying divisive tactics to cause disharmony in the party in collaboration with the proscribed group, Edo Peoples Movement (EPM).
While addressing APC leaders from the 18 Local Government Areas of the state, the state chairman of the party, Anslem Ojezua, Esq., traced the genesis of the crisis to the primary elections in 2018.
He said: “All this started since the party primaries in 2018 when we conducted the primaries to nominate candidates for the general elections held in 2019. It appeared that after that election, Edo APC didn’t know peace again.
“The issues were later aggravated in April and May 2019 which culminated in the formation of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), an infamous group we proscribed in our last meeting.”
Ojezua said the news of his removal was shocking as the state working committee, which purportedly removed him, didn’t have powers to do so.
“Our constitution has a provision to remove officers at the state level. It is only the State Executive Committee that has the powers to remove any officer,” he noted.
He continued: “Yesterday, 15 chairmen of the APC chapters in the local councils and 23 out of the 35 members of the State Executive Committee passed a vote of no confidence in the national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, while a vote of confidence was passed in my person.
“The APC local council chairmen have found out that Adams Oshiomhole is the one behind the crisis in Edo APC and, following the findings, lost confidence in the leadership of the national chairman by passing a vote of no confidence in him.
“Considering the stand of these chairmen and also based on the reports from organs of the party, we affirmed the suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole from APC in Edo State.”
Ojezua added: “Three local government chairmen of the APC were not in attendance at the meeting held on Tuesday. They are the chairmen of the party in Owan West, Etsako West and Etsako Central LGAs. I have letters informing me of their suspension and in that regard the vice chairmen are to act until those positions are filled.”
Governor Obaseki said he was not happy with the recent political developments in the state, especially the disruptions from a once-trusted leader who had thrown caution to the wind to cause disaffection among APC members in the state.
The governor said when he first met Oshiomhole 12 years ago, they shared a common interest in salvaging Edo State but all that had changed in recent times.