LAGOS – The National Union of Ogoni Students International (NUOS INTL), United States of America (USA), and Ogoni Lives Matter International (OLM), USA, have urged the Federal Government to expel Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) from Ogoniland and posthumously exonerate the late Ken Saro-Wiwa. The Ogoni groups, at the weekend, remembered the “horrific murder and the Kangaroo judicial hanging of the Nigerian State of its forefathers and heroes” during the 24th anniversary of the action in St. Louis, Missouri, United States of America. The event was reportedly honoured by a cross spectrum of human rights communities, supporters and friends of Ogoni struggle, who paid tributes to their “untarnished character, courage and conviction” and vowed to take the fight to restore their good names and dignity, as well as ensure that their names are removed from the Nigerian criminal records. A retired police chief, Glenn Roger, was said to be the keynote speaker at the event. The anniversary report was contained in a statement jointly signed by the president of NUOS INTL. USA, Pius Barikpoa Nwinee; secretary general, Sampson B. Npimnee; coordinator of OLM International, USA, Cornelius J.S Dumerene and secretary general, OLM International USA, Tuate Ganago. The statement, which was made available to the media during the weekend, quoted Roger to have declared at the event that the Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People (MOSOP) was the hope and legacy of the Ogoni battling against majority supremacy and “corporate and colonial theft in Africa.” The groups, therefore, urged President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate and lawmakers of Nigeria “to exonerate and immortalise our fallen heroes from the indignity of crime they never committed and death they never deserved, and expel Shell from the shoreline of Ogoni, so we could dialogue on oil resumption in Ogoniland to protect Ogoni/Nigeria national and economic security from foreign influence and encroachment.” The groups noted that this should be done now that the after-fact evidence from Aso Rock and Shell had exposed the “government’s scandal that the late dictator, Sani Abacha, invited the former CEO of the Royal Dutch Shell, Brain Anderson, to Aso Rock to endorse, cosign and encourage the ploy that led to the killing of four Ogoni prominent chiefs three weeks before the incident that led to the trumped-up charges on which Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight Ogoni activists were hanged.