Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The menace of cultism in Lagos State has attracted a renewed action for its total eradication as students, the police and members of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) at the weekend staged a walk against crime in Lagos state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that primary and secondary schools’ students, drawn from about 30 schools in Lagos were involved while policemen led by anti-cultism commander, CSP Uduak Udom, some PCRC members, participated in the road walk-out against cultism. The walk-out started at Ikeja Club, Awolowo road, through Ikeja Bridge, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital and ended at the Lagos State Police Command headquarters, GRA Ikeja. The participants shared fliers to members of the public along the streets with the inscriptions “Say no to cultism. “Say no to drug abuse”. “Drug abuse, irreparably damage to your life”. Other inscription included: “Cultism is a one way ticket to hell”. “Cultism and drug abuse are threats to public safety and security”. “Don’t ever try drugs” and “Never join cult groups -protect your future.” Speaking to NAN on the sideline of the road walk, CSP Uduak Udom, Commander Anti-cultism unit, disclosed that, between January and June, more than 600 suspected cultists had been arrested in different parts of Lagos. Udom said some suspects had been charged to court, some under investigation, while innocent ones were set free. The Chairman PCRC in Lagos, Apostle Kehinde Sowemimo, said the road walk campaign was part of their efforts to draw more supports for the fight against cultism and drug abuse in Lagos State. Sowemimo noted that cultism problem was not a fight for only the police, rather it was a problem for all families, individuals, all religions, organisations and agencies and call on all to rise to the challenge. He urged the participants of the road walk, particularly students, to take the message to their schools, families and friends, with a view to enlighten them on the danger of cultism /drug abuse. The PCRC chairman commended the police for a job well done, stressing that the committee will carry the campaign to many places, including schools, motor parks and market places. Mrs Adetola Adegboyega, of the National Orientation Agency in Lagos, urged the students not to take drugs nor join cultism. In his advise, Commissioner of police in Lagos, CP Zubairu Muazu, represented by the Deputy Commissioner of police, Operations, DC Mohammed Ali, said the road walk against cultism, was a welcome development. Muazu said the increase in cultism in Lagos was worrisome, describing it as “mother of crimes” in the state. He stressed that if cultism would be taken care of, half of the crime challenges would have been solved. He noted that more than 200 suspected cultists were arrested in one day, at a particular area in Lagos. He lamented that many had been charged to court, yet after jail term, they returned to cultism again.