Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Omoba Tunde Ajibulu, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) served as a member of the Logistics Directorate of the APC Presidential Campaign Council in the just concluded general elections. In this interview, he speaks on 20 years of democracy in Nigeria, 9th National Assembly leadership and situation in his home state of Kogi. Excerpts: Nigeria just marked 20 years of uninterrupted democratic governance. How do you think we have fared? The fact that Nigeria has marked twenty years of uninterrupted democracy is a very remarkable development. You see, democracy is a process that has to be nurtured and its components developed from within. Invariably, each country experiences in its own way the passage toward the democratic style its citizens choose as most suitable for their own society and that is what is happening in Nigeria now. Believe me, what is happening in Nigeria’s democratic space is very normal and it’s just part of the democratic development curve because each nation’s democratic culture is unique. There will always be issues in democracy after all some of the world’s oldest and respected democracies are having a lot of problems today like India, Greece, USA and others. As a chieftain of the ruling party, what are your expectations from President Buhari as he begins another term in office? We expect Mr. President to ensure democracy and democratic values, ensure the capacity of security agencies to effectively neutralise the threats posed by criminals and terrorists, foster the effective management of the nation’s economy and resources, promote equitable and fair massive nationwide infrastructural development. Other key areas that Nigerians are expecting Mr. President to focus on includes, reforming the police, prison and judicial processes, recalibrating the war on corruption, expanding non-oil revenues, patronizing local content and boosting local economies, providing public goods such as education, health care, job training, reducing the high rate of unemployment in the country as well as empowering youths and women, and tackling the issue of general electric power supply nationwide. What is your take on the latest crisis in your party with calls by some members on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the national chairman of your party to resign? Central to any democracy is the right of any group or individual to compete in the political process via strong political parties. Democracy flourishes when citizens are willing to participate in party politics. The APC is a collection of people who constitute several power blocs with competing, diverse and divergent interests, but compatible goals and objectives. Thus like any other party, there are bound to be disagreements and conflicts between and among party adherents. So what happened in the APC between the National Chairman and the Deputy National Chairman is nothing unusual and is part and parcel of politicking. Like I said earlier, all these are part of normal occurrences as our democracy evolves. I hope you are aware that there were even more far worse disputes among the hierarchy of the Republican Party in the United states and the Conservative party in the United Kingdom. As the National Assembly prepares to elect its leadership, are you worried that what happened in 2015 may repeat itself again? I want to believe with what I have seen so far, the coast is clear for our party APC to democratically ensure the election of Ahmad Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila , two loyal party men as Senate President and Speaker , House of Representatives respectively. As one of the illustrious sons of Kogi, do you think Governor Yahaya Bello has done enough to merit reelection? Let me begin by stressing that occupancy of public office presupposes the need to work assiduously to deliver democratic dividends that can lead to tangible improvements in the lives of electorates. All these efforts coalesce into sustainable socio-economic and political development which should be at the heart of democracy. But what one is hearing and reading about in Kogi state such as persistent suicides, widening social inequality, lack of payment of salaries and pensions, grandiose unemployment, massive poverty and hunger, intimidation and suppression of dissent, inability to adequately address the plethora of developmental challenges and so on is a sad reflection of the level of inertia of administration existing in the state. Unfortunately, the governor’s personal style of administration hasn’t helped his cause at all and hasn’t endeared himself to either majorities of the electorates or key stakeholders in the party. I am waiting to see how a regime that has totally lost trust by all stakeholders, that is not in sync with the needs of the electorates, that criminalises constructive criticism, that is not socially connected, that neglects bridge building, that has witnessed enormous decline in civic engagement would be able to win re-election. Evidently, democracy is in trouble in Kogi state and the current regime seems not to be the beacon for the teeming people of Kogi state who are looking for succour. You recently issued a statement asking the APC leadership to ensure that a candidate from Kogi East gets the party ticket. But the governor recently said that he will defeat anyone, even if the person is from Igalaland. What is your take on that? I am not sure someone of his caliber made this statement, but if he actually did, then the governor doesn’t seem to have deep knowledge about the history, nature and intricacies of Kogi politics. Indeed, one of the fundamental features of a democracy is government based on majority rule. So everywhere, politics is a game of numbers and the majority will always have their way. To refresh his memory, Kogi East Senatorial district constitute more than 50% of the total voting population of Kogi state and that is why all the governorship elections that have been held since the creation of the state in 1991 starting from Abubakar Audu in 1992 to the same Abubakar Audu in 2015 has been won by candidates from Kogi East Senatorial District. Bello should recollect that he lost the 2015 APC primaries because of the votes of delegates from Kogi East and West. I would like to inform him that democracy is evolving positively in Nigeria. Look at what happened during the 2019 governorship elections in Adamawa, Kwara, Bauchi, Ogun, Oyo and Imo States where despite the enormous powers of incumbency, sitting governors either lost their reelection bids or failed to install their protégés because of their bad antecedents and poor performance. The governor was the lucky beneficiary of the sad events surrounding the unfortunate demise of actual winner of the 2015 Governorship election, but he couldn’t manage the attendant political dysfunction that characterised the crisis which has totally eroded the credibility of his regime.