Chief Ayo Adebanjo, elder statesman and Afenifere leader, in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on the visit of Yoruba leaders to President Muhammadu Buhari, Fulani herdsmen attacks in the South-West and other issues. Excerpts: Afenifere led by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, Aremo Segun Osoba and others paid a visit to President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday where they discussed the issue of True Federalism and other issues. Are you on the same page with them on this? How many times will continue to tell you these people are not Afenifere?. They are just fake. Nigerians know who the true Afenifere is. They are just leaders of APC in South- West. When last did they come out as Afenifere except when they want to go and deceive Buhari? They never said anything about killings by Fulani herdsmen; instead they are talking about true federalism. Is Buhari sincere about restructuring? Is that not the basis on which Tinubu was elected as governor? They are just deceiving themselves. I don’t want to waste my time on them again because they are just jokers. You don’t have to lay claim to Afenifere. Nigerians know the real Afenifere. They were with us before they chickened out. Now that you have left, why are you still laying claim to that name? A cause we have been fighting before, you abandoned it because you want to be President. They are fighting the cause of the Yoruba for their own interest. It is clear that they don’t have the interest of the Yoruba at heart. They only go to Buhari whenever they want to deceive him. They have been deceiving Buhari and Buhari too is also deceiving them. What he wanted from Buhari, Buhari won’t give him. Buhari too is deceiving them because he knows they are fake. Their visit is an attempt to persuade Buhari that they are for him so that he can give them the slot for Presidency in 2023. But Buhari is not going to give them. He only needs them for support during elections. Tinubu knows that. They have used him before. Didn’t they use him before the election in 2015 only to abandon him later? It was when the 2019 election was approaching that they remembered him again. Do you still hold the belief that Nigeria is more divided now and that the citizens live in fears? There is no doubt about that. Nobody should be in doubt about that. This morning l was going through the newspapers and the Army chief says the officers are not committed to the fight against Boko Haram. If they are no more committed, then, the man should sack them. They have only told us what we already knew, that they are not competent, that they are not committed to fighting the menace. Then, if that is the case, the Commander- in-Chief should sack them. If he fails to sack them, he will be acting against his oath of office to defend lives and properties of the citizens and then, he has no moral right to stay in office. But does he believe that they are not working well, because I can recollect that the president told the whole world that the new Inspector General of Police (IGP) was working well and had become lean since he took over the job? Could it be that is the same impression he has about all his service chiefs? Buhari is living in denial; we all know that. The whole world has been telling him that these people have been incompetent for the past four years that he has been there. That is not new; but he turned a blind eye. That is not a new thing at all. Buhari has all along been guilty of negligence in protecting lives and properties. People have been clamouring that these security chiefs, heads of Army, Navy and Air Force, should be changed for lack of performance. He didn’t change them. But now that he has been told that the officers are not committed, what is he doing?. If he is really sincere about protecting lives and properties? He should sack them and put competent officers there and then, if he fails to do what is right to be done, then, he has no moral right to be in office. He is the Commander-in-Chief; he should appoint those who should do that. Now that officers are no longer committed, he should change them. If you had employed an officer who is not doing your job, you sack him and employ another officer; your inability to do that shows that you are also not competent. The issue of kidnapping, killing, among others, is dominating the polity. But the IGP came out to say the rate of crime in Nigeria is dropping. Do you also share that view? Also, only recently, we learnt that the son of a former minister was kidnapped, though he has been released, what is the correlation? If you view all the crimes all over the place, we have never had it this way. For the past two years, law and order have broken down in this country, only that these people are living in denial. For a police officer to now say that crime rate has dropped, with the rate of kidnapping, rape and all, well, the less we talk about it, the better. What is your take on the invasion of South-West by Fulani herdsmen who have been making life hellish for road travellers? We are living in this type of society because of the type of government we have. The question of Fulani criminality in South-West is a reflection of the crime rate in the country. Boko Haram and all these things were limited to the North before Buhari came in. Now, it is happening in all parts of the country and in the face of that, an Inspector General of Police has the effrontery to insult us by saying that the rate of crime in the country is reducing. What does the man take us for? What can be done since it appears the FG is silent on the issue? No other solution than we restructure this country. I am one of those who believe that if we keep on talking about development, we are just deceiving ourselves. Now, the police, the Army and everybody are now saying you should have state police to counter insurgency. State police is one of the ingredients of federal system. Unfortunately, some of the well-known and your knowledgeable governors in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South are now saying we have not all agreed, because some people cannot afford it. I am ashamed of the governor who said it, because I know he is knowledgeable enough to know that the question of state police is not a question of financial viability. It is a sine qua non of federalism which we are clamouring for. And there is nothing like restructuring other than that. Under restructuring, you have your own autonomy. You rule yourself. And when you are talking of financial viability, the moment you bring in state police, all the votes the Federal Government has been using for the police would devolve to the states. You don’t need a crystal ball to know that, and for a knowledgeable governor to be telling Nigerians of our own age that, with all the professors and legal luminaries that you have around, it is a shame. It is not a question of anybody doing us a favour. If this country wants to stay together, we must stay together under a constitution that is acceptable to everybody and that constitution that is acceptable to us has been decided at independence by the founding fathers. It was the military that de-structured Nigeria; that is why we are in this trouble. That is why we say restructure the country; go back to where you met us and all these problems would not be there. It is the excess money in the hands of the Federal Government that makes it easy for it to spend money where it is not necessary. This thing is simple. They are just making mountain out of a mole hill. If the governors are not ready for state police, what is the way out, for now, in the South-west? I don’ t buy the question that somebody is ready or not ready. The question is: Do we want to stay together? You can’t force a constitution on a country. There was this agitation about de-amalgamation before. That was what we were fighting for before we got to this question of federal system. They should look back at what happened in the past. All the leaders of the country were summoned to London and it was where they agreed on this federal constitution that the military changed and I continue to say Buhari cannot claim to be more Northerner than Sardauna. It was Sardauna, Azikiwe and Awolowo that agreed on what we are now asking you to do. It is not a favour. If Buhari really loves the country and is sincere about keeping the country together, he should restructure the country immediately. All these units in the federation should be autonomous enough to take care of security. As it is now, the governors are subordinate to the Federal Government, which should not be. The state governments are coordinates and independent and that was what we had in the First Republic. Like the Western Region then, they were so independent, they had an office in London. That’s what we are asking for. Nobody wants the country to separate. And that is why the country is so disorganised, because the man at the helm of affairs doesn’t understand the issue; that is Buhari. We don’t hate him, but he does not understand the job he has taken upon himself. If he understands it, what does it take him? The question of alienating South- South, the South-East and South- West will be solved by the time he does this thing. If he is, indeed, serious about keeping this country together, what is his problem in doing that? You wanted to continue under a constitution where you have the power to keep the security architecture in one village in your region and that’s why the Middle-Belt has been savaged by the Fulani elements without you doing anything about it. You went to Makurdi; the governor wrote to you, saying ‘look at these Miyetti Allah people; they are disturbing me. This is what they are doing.’ And you (Buhari) said ‘go and live with your neighbours.’ I have said it before, Buhari is reluctant to change this constitution because of the powers he has under it. He is the most powerful president in the whole world and by the time the constitution is changed to federalism, those powers would go. Unfortunately, the so-called governors from the South-West, who are in alliance with him, are so sheepish. Their hands are so dirty that they cannot talk to him. It is because their hands are so dirty that is why they don’t have the courage to stand up to him. In the alliance deal they had with him, they put restructuring. Tinubu, the head of their team there, fought for restructuring under the Obasanjo-led government. He did it with the incumbent vice-president who was then his commissioner and attorney-general. They took Obasanjo to court and they won on the issue of local government funds. On what basis did he (Tinubu) take that action and on what basis did he win? What has now changed that is making the vice-president and Tinubu to dilly-dally over restructuring? Tinubu is now saying it is not restructuring, it is economy. Do you develop the economy for dead people? Do you develop the economy when the people are all dead? It is unfortunate that these people see us as if we are imbeciles. Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi is the one who said the states have no money to fund state police. What advice do you have for him now? I have no advice for him other than to say I am disappointed. I won’t say more. For Fayemi to have said that, I think he should be the one to educate them, if those on the side of the Federal Government don’t know that the issue of state police is not a question of financial viability, that it is an ingredient of the federal system where the federating states are autonomous. How can you be called the chief security officer of your state without the instruments of security being in your hands? The commissioner of police has to take instructions from the Federal Government. You can recall that Buhari sent the IGP to Makurdi, Benue State, to quell the violence in the state and for three months, he didn’t go. As efficient as Buhari is, he didn’t know that the instruction was not complied with and when he later got to know, he didn’t do anything about the IGP. The man was still there. Was it about obeying the body language, ‘let them kill themselves?’ And even when the governor appealed to him, he said ‘go and live well with your neighbours.’ With all these developments sir, what is the future of democracy in the country? We have no democracy now, particularly with Buhari in government. He is the greatest civilian autocrat under the guise of being a democrat. Don’t you think some people will not agree with you on that? They don’t have to agree with me. I am Ayo Adebanjo. Everybody is entitled to his or her own opinion. What I am saying is that Buhari is the greatest civilian autocrat. Why? I am judging him by his actions. Will a democrat, in a democratic society, disobey court orders on two, three, four individuals? Will a democrat, under the rule of law, invade judges’ quarters under the pretence that he wants to wipe out corruption? These are my reasons I don’t just label him. I call him a dictator by his actions and let people tell me that those actions are consistent with democratic principles. That’s all. All these people who are living in denial, trying to be politically wise, I tell them that not all of us are dunces. Do you want to tell me that all those governors from the South-West don’t know what is right? It is all because they are afraid of him. What is your advice to Nigerians? My advice to Nigerians, until Buhari quits office, I have never minced my words about that. He does not believe in democratic system. He does not deserve to rule us in this country under a democratic system and anybody who is opposed to that statement or wants to refute it, that all these things I said he has done, that he has not done them, let him come out and tell us. You see, the unfortunate thing is that we are living in denial in this country and those who led us into this mess, I mean Tinubu, the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), are insulting the Yoruba by consistently talking about another thing. I was informed that what Tinubu told the people that approached him about the issue of getting restructuring implemented was that ‘it is economy first.’ The same thing is what the vice-president said. Can you do economy under the state of insecurity in the country? Which investor would come when people in a small village cannot safely go to farm and grow their produce and when people can’t move from one state to the other without the fear of being kidnapped? When people can’t move safely without armed robbers attacking them? When people can’t live in their villages without Fulani herdsmen raping their wives? These are issues in the country which he (Buhari) has not even said a word about on Democracy Day. We don’t know what Nigerians have done to make us deserve a man like Buhari. The number of people that have been killed under him is more than the number killed during the civil war and yet, the man still has the effrontery to be telling us the security is alright. ¡CONTINUED FROM 13