Powered by RubiQube Ad Network YENAGOA – Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State at the weekend took a swipe at his predecessor and a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Timipre Sylva, for allegedly running what he described as a fraudulent administration when he governed the state between 2007 and 2012. He said that the state international airport was one of the development projects undertaken by Sylva, which reportedly exposed his administration as a roguish one. Dickson was speaking at Amassoma in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area after he was conferred with a traditional title of “Amaebimowei Keni of Amassoma” by the paramount ruler of the community, Graham Naingba, during the annual Amassoma Seigbein fishing festival on Saturday. A statement by Dickson’s Special Adviser on Media Relations, Fidelis Soriwei, quoted him as having told the crowed at the cultural event that the airport would commence commercial flight operations to Lagos and Abuja upon the completion of a perimeter fence. He said the airport, located along the Tombia-Amassoma Road, which also houses Shell’s multibillion-dollar oil and gas gathering facility, was initiated by the administration of late Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, a son of Amassoma, but he could not bring it to reality because of the abrupt termination of his administration. Dickson said that Sylva, for reasons best known to him only, relocated the planned airport to a swampy area along the East-West Road “and abandoned it after spending billions of naira on the project.” He said the administration of Sylva believed in mounting signboards even for projects that were not executed, noting that this was why the former governor renamed the airport ‘Musa Yar’Adua International Airport’ and placed a signboard at the swampy location on the East-West Road. Dickson said, “Under the government of my immediate predecessor, Timipre Sylva, this airport was relocated to the East-West Road and put in the middle of a swamp that would have been impossible to reclaim. “With all the billions spent there, not even acquisition for that place was done and yet the government of the day went and put a signboard there, ‘Musa Yar’Adua International Airport’. “We are yet to put a signboard even though planes have landed on our own airport, and that’s the difference between a serious government and a 419 government.”