Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – Indications have emerged Friday afternoon to the effects that some Senators on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), are reaching out to members from their states with a view to taking a position on who to support as speaker of the 9th Assembly. Findings by Saturday INDEPENDENT revealed that the most hard hit in the new scheme of things is Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos), who, according to close sources may be losing his support base among APC lawmakers, particularly from the North. Our correspondent also gathered that the scheme is an elaborate one which involves strong supporters of Senator Ahmad Lawan who’s also a leading contender in the race for the Senate presidency. The game plan, according to a ranking Senator, who spoke under strict condition of anonymity, is to disabuse the minds of opposition Senators that their candidate (Ahmad Lawan) is not tied to anybody’s apron strings to warrant any fear of compromising the independence of the legislature if elected Senate President. As a result, such Senators are said to be reaching out to Reps members from their states, asking them to realign with the new reality and work with a different candidate. Also gathered was the fact that pro-Umaru Bago lawmakers in the House of Reps are reaching out to opposition Senators, as well as APC’s to present argument as to why Gbajabiamila should not be allowed to emerge. “There are a combination of factors we are looking at, which can’t be ignored. They have serious consequences on the ambition of the party’s speakership candidate and they are also likely to affect us here in the Senate if nothing is done. “Although, our major concern is the independence of the National Assembly, and we’re being made to abundantly understand that if imposition is allowed, our party could become the biggest loser and casualty of its own actions,” the source said. Asked to mention what the combination of factors is, he declined, saying that “in politics, it’s better to win some and lose some, rather than lose all in an attempt to win all as it was the case in 2015 and our party and its government at the centre paid dearly for it.” Another source within the House also told our reporter of how Gbajabiamila has underestimated the influence some outgoing members wield over their incoming successors. He cited an example of an incident involving a newly elected member whose trip to Umrah (lesser Hajj) in Saudi Arabia was sponsored by Gbajabiamila with a view to gain his support while his outgoing predecessor was ignored. He said the outgoing lawmaker was also not hinted by Gbajabiamila of his speakership ambition which is why he’s working against it. “The new lawmaker whom Gbajabiamila sponsored to Saudi Arabia is back in the country, and today, he, alongside his predecessor held a meeting with their Senator where it was agreed that there’s a new direction to follow,” the source disclosed. Saturday INDEPENDENT also gathered that as a result, pro-Bago Reps members have reportedly moved in to consolidate their support base with certain incentives and promises to colleagues and friendly Senators sympathetic to their course. Another factor said to be working against the party and its preferred candidate is it’s lukewarm attitude towards state governors who worked against its interest in the just concluded general elections, a situation which led to the loss of many states to the opposition, the latest being Zamfara where all positions won by the ruling APC were given to PDP following a Supreme Court judgement. The source disclosed that since the party could not speak with one voice at the polls to consolidate its hold on power from 2015, it shouldn’t impose NASS leadership choice on members as against section 50(1)(b) of the 1999 constitution. It says: “members shall elect from amongst themselves presiding officers in the mold of Senate president and Speaker respectively provided they possess cognate legislative experience.”