Powered by RubiQube Ad Network IBADAN – Pandemonium broke out in the ancient town of Iresa-Adu, headquarters of Surulere local government of Oyo state, recently following an alleged self declaration as the new Aresa Adu by one Abraham Olafimihan Adeyeye Oyerinde. Daily Independent gathered that the crisis started after Adeyeye proclaimed himself as the new monarch of the town, Aresa-Adu of Iresa-Adu. Youths numbering over 100 took to the streets in protest against the declaration of the man as the traditional ruler of the town. His proclamation as the new Aresa of Iresa-Adu, sparked off protests from sons, daughters and residents of the town. The protesters argued that filling the vacant stool had earlier resulted in litigation yet to be determined by an Oyo high court. Major roads leading to the town were barricaded by the protesters, chanted war songs and challenged the man to come out of his hiding place. The praise singers and drummers contracted by Adeyeye were beaten to a pulp during the protest which lasted for almost five hours. The development,however, compelled security operatives which included the police, personnel of the Directorate of State Security (DSS), among others to enforce the law and pacify the protesting youths. It was learnt that an Oyo high court sitting in Orile – Igbon area of the local government, had in suit number HOI/04/2019, dated 17th April, 2019, restrained the state government as well as Adeyeye Oyerinde, from proceeding with nomination and other proceses leading to the installation of the new Aresa-Adu of Iresa-Adu, pending the heating and final determination of the suit. Others restrained in the interim injunction included the state Governor, Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Secretary to the Local Government, Raji Oloyede, Tunde Oloyede, Nathaniel Oyediran and Oyewumi Oyeniran. But in what appeared as defiance to the court order, Adeyeye Oloyede in conivance with others however, went ahead and install himself as the new monarch of the town. The quick intervention of the security agencies,especially the police from the Iresa-Adu and Ogbomoso divisional headquarters, saved the man as he was whisked away to safety in an unknown place. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Gbenga Fadeyi, when contacted on the development, said the situation has been brought under control.