Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Lagos – Passion Gate Consultant recently had their fourth edition of Life After Secondary School Conference at His Grace Multipurpose Hall, Idimu. The annual event, which was themed ‘Repositioning’ was attended by outstanding teenagers of various ages. Motivational speakers in the house were Ayo Fadumiye, Isiaka Karimot, and Nelson Oragwa, while the panelists for the event were Adelugba Aderonke, Kemmal Onuoha, Osho Shot, Igwe Henry, Ayanbajo Ibidapo and Samuel Ogundare. Speaking on the event, the convener and educationist, Dele Adeleke said the program for the past four years was focused on helping and guiding teenagers after secondary school. He explained the importance of the program and why he believes it would benefit the teenagers. “Immediately after graduating from secondary school, I notice most of the students are stuck, they don’t know what to do and some of them get involved into things they are not supposed to be involved in, especially those who don’t have the opportunity to enter the tertiary institution on time. While some of these teenagers go to their parents for advice, unfortunately not all parents are good guidance as they want their children to do what they think is best for them when it is only for their selfishness. But for those who would attend this program, we are going to teach them what it means to discover themselves. They are going to find out what they really want in life, if it is to help people within their community or be a nuisance to themselves.” He further talked about what they were going to achieve after they are done with the program. “After this program, we are going to have another two major programs in July and August. We deliberately picked these months because of the holidays. During these months, we would be partnering with a vocational school for two weeks. We have talked to the people that would teach them, and they would be taught for free. We would also train them in a school for personal development. In this school, we would run them through a course that has to do with self-development, leadership intensity, communication skills and many other courses that help guide them for the future.”