Edo State Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu has emphasized the need for collaboration between government and the church for the betterment of the society, especially in the area of child upbringing. Shaibu made stated this after serving as a Mass Server, the second year in a row, to celebrate Fathers’ Day which incidentally coincided with the solemnity of the Holy Trinity with the theme: “The Undying Father”. According to him, serving as a Mass Server had brought back nostalgic feelings of his days serving Mass in Kaduna as an Alter Boy. He charged fathers to play positive roles as models to their individual families in order to make for a better society even as he advocated for the same attribute in governance that would give room for a society in which the right persons were put in the right positions for the smooth flow of the dividends of democracy to the people. Wife of the Edo State Deputy Governor, Mrs. Maryann Philip-Shaibu who was honoured as Jewel of St. Paul’s Catholic Church, as a mark of recognition for her outstanding work in the church, said as a mother she was happy to be associated with men, adding, “We push them but they make things happen.” She prayed to God to bless the work of the hands of all fathers. Also speaking, Chairman, Etsako Central Local Government Council, John Osi Akhigbe, enjoined fathers to endeavour to play a positive role in the lives of their children, adding that occasions like this served as positive reminders to society to do the needful. Host Parish Priest, Rev. Fr. Edwin Omorogbe, in his homily, said fathers should be alive to their responsibilities and advocated for the adoption of a persuasive approach by fathers to dissuade children to put an end to illicit drug use that have become the order of the day among youths. Rev. Omorogbe also called on Catholics to always invoke the name of the Holy Trinity in times of strife, not only during the celebration of the Most Holy Trinity where the church celebrates the three distinct persons who made up the Godhead which exemplified the importance of the division of labour/ collaborative creation story in Genesis 1: 26, where God asserts, in the first person plural sentence structure, “Let us create man in our own image.” The highpoint of the celebration was the presentation of awards to six patrons/grand patrons, recognition and presentation of awards to two Super Dads.