Powered by RubiQube Ad Network But for the quick intervention of the police in Lagos a man with his brother would have been sent to their early grave over an alleged ‘kidnapping’ of his children for money ritual. Making this known yesterday to Daily Independent was Bala Elkana, Deputy Superintendent of Police, DSP, and the Lagos state police command image maker. According to Elkana on June 6, 2019 at about 12.45pm, the Command’s control room received a distress call that a mob action is going on at Lawanson junction, Itere. He said detectives of the police Anti – crime patrol team led by the Divisional Police Officer Itere, Chief Superintendent of Police,DSP, Odey Ogah was prompted deployed to the scene to quell the attack. Elkana said on reaching the scene one Justina Emmanuel,of No 10 Bishop Okogie Street Ago and her one and a half year old daughter, Munachisom Agugom were rescued. Daily Independent gathered that two men suspects namely Joseph Agugom and Paul Agugom both brothers and of the same address with the victims, were rescued from the mobs. They were alleged to have kidnapped the victims for ritual purposes. According to police image maker, preliminary investigation into the matter revealed that the victim is married to one of the suspects, Joseph Agugom and the child belongs to both of them. It was also revealed that the victim is mentally ill and she was being taken to the hospital by the husband when she raised the alarm and some members of the public who felt they were being kidnapped stopped the car and descended on the suspects. It was gathered that members of both the suspects and victims family came to the station and made statements to the effect that the victim is mentally ill and was actually being conveyed to the hospital for treatment. “The other two children of the victim with her husband,were brought to the Station, contrary to the allegations of the victim that they were killed by the husband for money ritual. The victim was taken to hospital by the Police for medical examination. “Police has launched a manhunt on those who participated in the mob action with a view of bringing them to justice. “One Honda CRV car with Registration No. LAGOS FST 587 BU, one LG Phone, one iPhone, One bag containing two flasks, three pieces of rope, one black para military belt and one green beret were recovered. “Members of the Public are strongly advised to be more careful not to jump into conclusions on alarm raised by anybody. Innocent persons have suffered death or bodily harm and inhuman treatment through jungle justice. “Members of the Public have the powers to arrest anybody suspected of a crime but the law provides that such persons arrested should be handed over to the Police immediately. “It is only investigations that can determine the truthfulness or otherwise of the allegations. “And our laws presumes the accused person to be innocent until proven guilty by Court of competent jurisdiction.” Elkana said.