Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ahmed Musa; Samuel Ogidan The Buhari administration which many enthusiasts believed would be a sharp departure from previous ones, given the need to chart a new course for the nation – may have recorded some milestones depending on who’s making the distinction. However, the highly anticipated government of change according to this evaluation by our correspondent also dashed many hopes legislatively by virtue of the manner in which he treated many of the bills forwarded to him for assent. While the 8th Assembly has gone down as the most resourceful in terms of the number of bills and motions it passed since 1999, President Buhari whose duty it is sign them into law has also gone down as the president who rejected the most bills when it comes to giving assent. According findings by Independent on passed bills and the ratio of rejection by the president, President Muhammadu Buhari has in the last 4 years rejected 22 bills emanating from the House of Representatives. While relying on Section 58(4) of the Constitution as amended which says, “where a Bill is presented to the president for assent, he shall within thirty days thereof signify that he assents or that he withholds assent”, the President cited constitutional breaches, duplicity and paucity of funds for his refusal to assent 22 bills on which tons of scarce public resources had been expended to pass. Three of the Bills which suffered rejection on the ground of duplicity and lack of funds, were returned in January 6, 2018, having been passed and transmitted in December 2017. The Bills include: Police Procurement Fund(Establishment Bill,2017, Chartered Institute of Public Management of Nigeria Bill, 2017 and Nigerian Council for Social Work(Establishment) Bill, 2017. The other 19 Bills were all returned to the House within a space of three years. The most controversial that pitched the House against the President was the Electoral (Amendment) Bill, 2018 which he rejected thrice saying it was not timeous. In his letter dated December 11, 2018, Buhari while rejecting the Bill said” I am declining assent to the Bill principally because I am concerned that passing a new electoral bill this far into the electoral process for the 2019 general election which commenced under the 2015 Electoral Act, could create some uncertainty about the applicable legislation to govern the process. “Any real or apparent change to the rules this close to the election may provide an opportunity for disruption and confusion in respect of which law governs the electoral process.” His letter was torn to shreds by mostly Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) members who felt the president had an ulterior motive as the February polls was close by. The House has continued to embellish the Bill and last Thursday re-committed the Bill to the Committee of the Whole to rescind the earlier decision on it by the President. The essence of the re-committal  is to enable the House consider it and resend it to Buhari for his assent the fourth time, having pledged that the law is better signed after the general elections. Also returned on December 20, 2018 was the Federal Roads Authority (Establishment) Bill, 2018 by the president who cited duplication of roles. The piece of legislation was primarily designed according to the Chairman House committee on Works, Hon. Toby Okechukwu, (PDP, Enugu), to strictly handle all road contracts in Nigeria. The National Transport Commission Bill, 2018 suffered same fate as Buhari again cited same reason of duplication of roles in the sector. On the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration) (Amendment) Bills. Bills No. 8, No.15, No. 22, No. 24 and No. 28 were all rejected by the president. These bills may likely be reintroduced in the 9th Assembly upon accommodation of the president’s observations given their importance and the passion with which the lawmakers pursued them. Again, on July 5, 2018, president Buhari returned four bills citing same reasons which bordered on paucity of funds and duplication of roles as they affect the ministries with similar responsibilities. The four Bills include: The Corporate Manslaughter Bill, 2018, the Agriculture  Guarantee Scheme Fund(Amendment Bill) 2018, the NCPEA (Establishment) Bill 2018, the Courts and Tribunals (Standard of Scales Fines) Bill, 2017. On October 10, 2018 the president again returned six bills citing same reasons for not endorsing them. The bills returned are: the Advanced Fee Fraud and Related Offences, (Amendment )  Bill, 2017, the National Agricultural  Feed Council Bill, 2018, the Nigerian Maritime Adminstration And  Safety Agency, (Amendment) Bill, 2017, the National Research And Innovation Council+ Establishment) Bill, 2017, the Electoral Amendment Bill, 2018, the National Institute of Hospitality and Tourism (Establishment) Bill, 2018, the Subsidiary Legislation (Legislative Scrutiny) Bill 2018, and the Chartered Institute of Entrepreneurship (Establishment) Bill, 2018. Also, on November 13, 2018, the Institute of Chartered Biochemist and Molecular Biologists of Nigeria Bill, 2018 was returned. The National Broadcasting Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2018, was equally rejected by the President on December, 5, 2018. The Radiographers (Registration Amendment) Bill, 2018 was also rejected due to duplication of roles as pointed by the president in his letter to the House. Lastly, on January 17, 2018, two Bills were returned to the House. They were the Energy Commission Act (Amendment) Bill, 2018 and the Federal Polytechnics Act (Amendment) Bill, 2018. As the current administration which includes the 8th National Assembly winds down, it is the hope of political/legislative observers and Nigerians that most of the bills rejected by the president would be treated in the 9th Assembly provided their relevance doesn’t get overtaken by future events. However, findings by Independent from sources at the House Rules and Business committee that by popular  tradition, good and relevant ones among the bills would be prepared for recommission before the next Assembly. “As for the unmanageable ones, we will keep them for reference purposes”, the source said. The upper chamber of the National Assembly can be said to have suffered worse fate in the four years of President Muhammadu Buhari. While many of the bills passed by the Senate also suffered the same fate as in the House of Representatives, political watchers were of the opinion that the President allowed personal interest to override the general good of the nation the ways and manners he addressed and treated the parliament in the four years of his government. Apart from rejecting bills, the Senate, specifically the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu and other senators suffered in the hand of Buhari’s government. While some bills passed by the Senate were out rightly rejected by the President, others suffered worse fate, as reference was not made to them. Citing various reasons, the President had rejected about 34 bills passed by the National Assembly. And this year alone Buhari had rejected 13 bills. It was noted that while 20 of the bills were rejected in the first three years of his government, five were rejected in January, six in March, and eight last month. Of all the bills rejected, the amendment made to the 2010 Electoral Act suffered worse fate, because it was rejected three time by President Buhari. His excuse was that “any real or apparent change to the rules this close to election may provide an opportunity for disruption and confusion in respect to which law governs the electoral process. This leads me to believe that it is in the best interest of the country and our democracy for the National Assembly to specifically state in the Bill, that the Electoral Act will come into effect and be applicable to elections commencing after the 2019 General Elections.” The bills rejected by the President as contained in his letters to both chambers include the Chartered Institute of Training and Development Establishment Bill 2018, the Nigerian Aeronautic Research Bill 2018,the National Institute of Credit Administration Bill 2018, the National Housing Fund Bill 2018, the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria Bill 2018, the National Biotechnology Development Agency of Nigeria Bill 2018,Ajaokuta Steel Company Completion Fund Bill, 2018 and the SME Development Agency Bill, 2018.