Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Director General (DG) of NAPTIP Dame Julie Okah-Donle had taken the war against human trafficking to three aviation organisations at the Murtala Muhammed Airport Ikeja calling for their collaboration. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the National Agency For Prohibition of Traffic in Persons (NAPTIP) boss visited the National Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and the International Air Transport Association (IATA). Okah-Donle said she decided to carry the campaign against human trafficking to the three organisations because of the important roles and oversight functions they play in the aviation industry. She introduced the mandate of the agency to the managements of the three organisations, which include coordination and enforcement of human trafficking laws and collaboration with other agencies. “To effectively carry these mandates, NAPTIP performs its functions with the application of the five-Ps-prevention, policy, protection and partnership, which is what we are doing here today. “The aviation sector is an important ally in the fight against human trafficking, hence, it is time for the operators in the industry to rise to the occasion and join hands with NAPTIP. “It is disturbing that young Nigerians are lured out of the country through the airports and other exit points with false promises of better lives abroad, only for them to end up in slave-like condition at their destination “Therefore, as you carry out your oversight functions of Airports, Airspace, Metrological services, I implore you to ensure that the airlines are mandated to fulfil part of their obligations under the Trafficking In Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act, 2015,” she said. The DG called on the airline operators to report suspected cases of human trafficking to NAPTIP as failure to do so will result in prosecution of the offenders. The DG of NCAA, Capt. Muhtar Usman assured NAPTIP boss of their full cooperation so as to meet the agency’s mandate. “We are here to support you to ensure that you carry out your mandate. We are very much open in assisting you in achieving NAPTIP objectives,” Usman assured. The Managing Director of FAAN, Capt. Rabui Yadudu, represented by Director of Security Services, Capt. Usman Sadiq also assured the anti-human traffic agency of their total support. Yadudu said the sensitisation was a welcome development. Some materials for information at the airport, inside the plane and website of the agencies were presented by NAPTIP DG to the organisations. (NAN)