Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Dr. Frederick Lanshima Ikyaan, a cleric, was the governorship candidate of Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) in Benue State in the last election. In this interview with JOSEPH UNDU, he spoke on the election and other related issues. Except: As a Reverend gentleman in politics, did you not see it as odd? Well, the last election was the first time I got involved in politics. Before, those of us in church saw politics as a dirty game. We were afraid of joining politics not to corrupt our mind. But, I have discovered that politics is not dirty. It is the only opportunity we to bring about positive change and add value to human lives. However, there are indeed very dirty people in politics that created the negative impression to us. When I got involved, I decided to be myself, and not to dance to the tune of any person. How was the conduct of major actors, especially the security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)? I would rate them average. In fairness, nobody really stepped out to do evil. The principles or rules of engagement anywhere are meant to add value to society. But, sometimes, there are other dynamics that evolve in the process. They include inducements that have become a common practice in Nigeria. It is better called corruption or bribery. During the elections, money was everywhere. Some allegedly collected billions, others hundreds of millions, etc. I didn’t see them physically, but because I am a Nigerian and have been here for a long time, I know what transpired. So, I have reasons to believe that money was used to influence attitude or actions, judgement or all that went on. What is your impression of the last election? I have followed development in politics from 1982. I had opportunity of interacting with people and witnessed political rallies, hearing political campaigns and speeches, even following up what happened after that as far back as 1982. We are a developing nation and our systems are also developing. In previous dispensations, we hear of ballot box snatching and rigging. People used to snatch ballot boxes, ran away with them, altered results. Money was not so much in use. During the last election, I discovered that we have developed a little more. We have moved from crude, primitive attitude of ballot box snatching to a new evolution of vote buying and it is done beautifully. Money is distributed prior to the election. In many of the places money was distributed Friday night up to 5.am. People collected various sums and in the morning, they set to work. So, they have perfected this practice of vote buying. It will even be difficult for you to catch anybody red handed even though there are other occasions where people had to hide somewhere with money. People vote and displayed their ballot paper to whoever was detailed to stand and witness and then you are directed to where you will collect your N8,000. In fact, in some cases, it was even N100 and in worse cases, it was N50. Apart from money, some people cooked food, bought beer, soft drinks and distributed to the electorate. You take a bottle of beer, go and vote; or you vote, prove that you voted for a particular party, either PDP or APC. These were various dimensions of vote buying we notice in the state. So, I say again that we are a developing nation. Our systems are also developing. But, it is developing negatively; yet, we are still moving. Who knows in the next dispensation, we may move again from vote buying to some other level of engagement. We do hope then, it will be a positive one that will add value to the electoral system. Would you say political elite purposely impoverished the people to buy their conscience? Yes, they impoverished the people to take undue advantage of them. But, I think we should not necessarily blame the political elite. Our economy might not have helped situation too. If the economy was in a good shape, no matter what the political elite tried to do, it would still amount to nothing. But, the economy generally has not been helpful. It has not enhanced life, the roads are terribly bad. It is difficult for people to sustain themselves and find it difficult to stand the test of money or other forms of corruption. So, I may not necessarily blame the political elite. They are only taking advantage of the general situation in the country and in the state, even though they also have a share in it. As politicians, one would expect that they would add value to the system and improve it from that level they met it to a higher level. But, they cash in, take advantage of it and impoverish the people. Would this explain your poor outing at the election? Yes and no. What whatever you are doing in this life, the prevailing conditions, whether social, economic or even religious, impact on whatever you are doing. So, it is a collection of all these put together. A lot of people have become gullible and vulnerable. Quite a number of them that I met in the course of my campaign promised to vote for me because they saw sense and credibility in what we were saying and doing or better still, what we are doing and saying. But, money came up overnight and changed their minds. So, I may not necessarily say it was only one factor that was responsible. There were other factors too. There was high level betrayal and deceit and all manner of things that went on. But still, were it not for the intervention of money, were it not for vote buying, if the process was allowed to run its course, I would have had no problem. Was this betrayal from the political class or the religious cycle? No, it was from the society generally. I cannot point to only one level of betrayal. It was all over. I think betrayal and sabotage should not be part of politics because the goal of politics is not to sabotage society. So, the process ought to reflect the goal. Unfortunately, this is what we have. I remember the late former President Umaru Yar’Adua did confess that the system or the process that brought him to power was a bit faulty. I don’t think that betrayal, conspiracy and sabotage should become standard that people can boast about, or talk about and claim that they have become part of the system. Why didn’t you go to the tribunal like your APC counterpart, Emmanuel Jime? Well, I choose not to go to court because I am a Christian. The Bible says: “A man can receive nothing except it be given him from above.” God had the capacity to, inspite of sabotage, conspiracy, deceit and all that, still give the position to me. But, God decided to allow it go the way it did. I want to believe the supreme act of God in this matter. Would you work with Governor Samuel Ortom if he invites you? Of course, I am not against him. We have been good friends over the years. So, it depends on what he extends to me. I have learnt to act by conviction, not to be moved by sensual material glamour of things that come to me. So, if he extends his hand of fellowship to me, why not? I will prayerfully consider it if my spirit persuades me to, I will gladly do so. I didn’t just come out to seek to be governor. I had a very deep conviction, I even shared with him. I reported the entire process to him because we have been close. We have been talking even in our very inner room, so I don’t have a problem. To buttress this, I congratulated him via text as soon as the results were declared. He was declared on Sunday, I think by Monday night or so, I sent a message of congratulation to him. I am not against him at all. What is your expectation of his next government? Very simple; he has his blueprint. I expect that he should be very sincere and implement the blueprint. I read it, it is a wonderful idea. He is faithful, sincere and I believe he will implement it because he wrote it and signed it. So, I know that he believes in it. I do hope it was not just a kind of deception to Benue people. But, I think he meant it. So, let him implement his blueprint, even though he was not able to implement one percent of it in his first term in office.