Sir Temple Ogueri Onyeukwu, a political analyst is National Leader, Turning Point Youth Empowerment Initiative. Onyeukwu, a social crusader and Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the new National Assembly leadership among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the new National Assembly (NASS) leadership?
The new National Assembly leadership comprises men who have experience on the workings of the NASS and Nigeria’s problems. Most of the nation’s problems stem from either obsolete laws or the constitution, which we do not reflect citizens’ aspirations. The new leadership knows that the nation needs a two-party system, state police, rotational presidency, single six-year tenure for elected executives, governors and deputies, the president and his vice. There is need to decentralise the DSS. Local governments must have autonomy. Buhari is not a magician and will depend on the enabling laws made by the National Assembly to function effectively. Nigeria is currently the world’s poverty capital and there must be legislations to facilitate the president’s work.
The new NASS leadership emerged when the ruling party, APC, has a good majority in the legislature. There should not be excuses any more. The new leadership knows that petroleum subsidy must stop, there must be toll gates on highways to raise money for maintenance of existing infrastructure and development of more. They must surpass their predecessors in their representations, legislations and oversight functions. Good, seamless laws facilitate the work of the executive. The world is watching what the National Assembly will make out of this golden opportunity at its disposal. Do you agree that the 9th National Assembly would be rubber stamp to the executive?
The National Assembly is an arm of government, independent of the executive and judiciary. Each arm is judged by its performance. It is not by opposing the executive that the 9th National Assembly will assert its independence. It is by working together to ensure executive bills that are in the best interest of the nation are given accelerated hearing and passage. The executive must ensure the annual budget proposal gets to the legislature on or before September 1 on annual basis if it is desired to return to January – December budget period. When you present the budget to the National Assembly in November or December, do you expect the NASS to just stamp it and return? The NASS, as the people’s representatives, should thoroughly scrutinise the budget, make amendments where necessary before passing it. The NASS and the executive have critical roles to play in governance. NASS must initiate bills that are in the country’s best interest. For example, INEC should be mandated by law to conduct local government elections using the geopolitical zones to spread them out. Would you agree that the National Assembly leadership election is another form of South East marginalisation?
The present political dispensation appears to have decimated the South East geopolitical zone completely at the federal level. From the executive, through the National Assembly and to the judiciary, South East is the weeping zone. However, many of the South East states are controlled by the opposition PDP. This is the time for South East and South South to work together, cement the political bond between them and relaunch the bid to capture the presidency in 2023. I don’t believe in government of National Unity, as being advocated by many, whereby the president will accommodate members of the opposition in his cabinet. Government of National Unity weakens the opposition. It is not a guarantee that those appointed can run with the vision of the ruling party, thereby making it a loose-loose scenario. The victorious party should govern so that at the end of its tenure, the nation can hold it accountable. The APC has a manifesto which includes National Security, Economy and fighting corruption. Why should it appoint opposition members to drive its vision? It is wrong. What is paramount is the adoption of a two-party system to enable political cohesion, national integration and unity of purpose. With the APC and PDP’s body language, do you see a president from South East feasible in 2023?
The South East is the weeping child of Nigeria politics. The zone is seriously endangered. Though it appears none of the other zones wants it, yet none wants it to go. Again, it is not in its best interest to leave the Nigerian state. Where then does it go from here? It is on record that the Igbo of South East have watered and cemented the country’s unity with their blood. Wherever you go, they live among other ethnic groups. It will be very difficult for a president of South East extraction to emerge in 2023. Remember the arrangement that guaranteed the emergence of a Yoruba man, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo in 1999? The major political parties chose their presidential candidates from the South West so that head or tail, the region would produce the president. Can the rest of the nation accord the Igbo nation that special privilege? The Igbo have not lost it totally. We need to put on our thinking cap and think outside the box. The Igbo are the most accommodating, most patient and most tolerant group in Nigeria. We have been the servant-in-chief to others, playing the second fiddle. We must place this desire before the Presence of God and ask Him for favours With increase in kidnapping and banditry, are South West governors right to seek military assistance to check the menace?
President Buhari, while campaigning for his first and second terms, promised to tackle insecurity, Boko Haram, revive the economy and fight corruption. The president and most Nigerian military personnel were trained to fight conventional warfare. Kidnapping and banditry are forms of terrorism. You don’t fight terrorists through conventional approaches. Fighting terrorism requires us to be more proactive, not reactive. It requires infiltrating the terrorist camp, understudying and understanding their modus operandi, discovering the motivating factors and advancing strategies to nip them in the bud.
The Nigerian Police is ill trained, ill prepared, ill equipped and ill motivated to fight kidnapping, banditry, and insurgency. The military’s involvement must be short term. In the long term, the solution will revolve around the practice of true federalism, decentralising the intelligence agencies, adoption of state police, making state governors true Chief Security Officers of their states, with powers to hire and fire, motivating and applying sanctions where appropriate.
Again, what are the major causes of insurgency? They include youth unemployment, which has hit over 30%, illiteracy, injustice, inequitable, distribution of our common wealth, poor infrastructure, greed. Why should a governor who has ruled (or ruined) a state for eight years become a senator? Why can’t the National Assembly make laws compelling former governors to be honorary non-voting members of their state Assemblies, while former elected presidents become honorary non-voting members of the Senate? Nigeria’s destiny lies in the National Assembly. With appropriate laws and amendments to existing laws, the nation can move forward where there is the will. Laws compelling enforcement must be in place. Imo State governor, Emeka Ihedioha, has been accused of witch-hunting former Governor Rochas Okorocha. How do you see this allegation?
It is too early for anyone to start accusing Governor Emeka Ihedioha of witch-hunt. He is still assessing the state of affairs in the state. He knows governance is a continuum. After his assessment, he will prioritise his projects. Those he inherited uncompleted, one expects will be completed, otherwise, they will become sunk cost and the money invested go down the drain. The governor’s priorities will determine the impact of his administration. I will suggest total rural transformation through quality good road infrastructure.
The citizens must expect to pay adequate taxes to help the government generate enough revenue to drive its developmental aspirations. The state’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) is appalling and must be improved upon. The administration’s agenda must include rural transformation, human capital development, youth employment, economic rejuvenation and security of lives and property.