Ughelli – A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Halims Agoda, on Wednesday criticized the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) stalwart, Latimore Oghenesivwe, for attacking Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege’s choices of media aides, describing his attack as myopic, lack of knowledge and exposure.
Agoda, who was the 2019 House of Representatives candidate for Ethiope Federal Constituency on the APC platform, made this statement while reacting to publications in national dailies, credited to Oghenesivwe. He said that it is the sole prerogative of Omo-Agege to appoint his media aides.
“The Urhobo nation is profoundly grateful to all the senators who elected him as Deputy Senate President and we, as Urhobo people, have been conferred with participatory inclusiveness in the art of national parliamentary democracy.
“It may interest Latimore Oghenesivwe to know that former President Goodluck Jonathan and the former Governor of Rivers and Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, had in the past appointed their media aides from Delta State, (Ughelli North and South) and it was never read in pages of newspapers. So, l don’t know what is the business of Latimore Oghenesivwe over who Omo-Agege appoints as his media aides.” “When fate throws up new player of significance in the political realm at the national level, dysfunctional discordant sentiments are spewed by persons in the opposition camps, considering the recent effusive diatribe dripping with hate-tears by persons who believe Omo-Agege should have called a town-hall meeting to deliberate on who to be appointed as media aides. “This is a misconception and a poverty of knowledge of the fundamentals of national political engagements, as the Deputy Senate President was elected from among senators and by senators of equal mandate across the nation. So, the realms of the functions and authority of Omo-Agege preclude exclusionism as such new roles transcend catering only to his home constituency. “Therefore, given his new and wider scope of responsibilities to the Nigerian people, Senator Omo-Agege has not by any stretch of the imagination breached any moral, social or political code by looking beyond his district to appoint his support staff as Deputy Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The objections raised by my brother in PDP, Fred Latimore Oghenesivwe, are clearly understood considering the fact that opposition in politics is seen as relevant only when rationality is sacrificed on the altar of political expediency and self-interest. “However, having appointed a Delta Central citizen as his chief of staff, on the ground of political maturity and consideration, he adopts liberalism in dispensing opportunities to the other parts of the country whom he now serves as their Deputy Senate President.”