Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – The Federal Government has stated that it would save N20billion Naira annually through the local production of military foot wears. Air Vice Marshal Jomo Osahor, Director-General of Defence Research and Development Bureau, stated this at the weekend in Abuja during the signing of Memorandum of Understanding between the Nigerian Institute of Leather and Science Technology (NILEST), an agency of the Ministry of Science and Technology and Defence Research and Development Bureau (DRDB). Osahor expressed joy that the singing of the MOU would save Nigeria N20 billion annually from the cost of importing military foot wears into the country. According to AVM Osahor, the signing of MoU it would also assist the military in fighting insecurity, providing jobs and building the capacities of people towards national development. He added that it would provide the platform for easy modification to suit every situation in view of the fluid nature of the battle field. Also speaking, Mr. Bitrus Bako Nabasu, the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, said the MOU, was part of the drive to diversify the national economy and conserve foreign exchange. Nabasu explained that the MoU was expected to provide the platform for exchange of technical knowledge and experience acquired in the design, production and use of goods for military operations. He noted that the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology was irrevocably committed to the full implementation of the MoU in line with the Executive Order No.5 for the planning, execution of projects, promotion of Nigerian Contents in Contracts Sciences, Engineering and Technology, in view of the upsurge of security challenges in the country. In her remarks, Dr. Eucharia Oparah, the Acting Director-General of NILEST, said that the bilateral partnership was expected to revive the nation’s economy, reduce capital flight, improve security, create employment and generate wealth as well as promote made-in-Nigeria goods.