Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – On May 29, 2019, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was declared winner of this year’s governorship election in the state, officially took over the reins of governance from the former governor, Akinwunmi Ambode. Having mounted the saddle as the state’s new Chief Executive, there is mixed feelings among Lagosians, who had witnessed exciting period in the last four years under the Ambode administration. That the out-going administrations touched lives during the last four years would be an understatement. What are the expectations of Lagosias from Sanwo-Olu? Luckily for him, Sanwo-Olu took over from the same All Progressives Congress (APC) administration, hence, there may not be much in change of policies and programmes. Ambode’s government was seen in action in every part of the state, even in areas like Ipaja Ayobo, Agege, Abule Egba, among others, which had witnessed scarce development under the previous administration. In fact, no sector of the state was untouched by Ambode, who many see as a workaholic, be it roads, bridges, the health sector, housing and even agriculture. His litany of projects could be seen as he has continued on a commissioning spree across the state at the twilight of his administration. He claimed that he did all he did without borrowing. However, several projects Ambode has been executing are unfinished, especially in the area of roads and bridges as well as other infrastructure. Thus, with the level of achievements of Ambode, a lot is expected from Sanwo-Olu. First, he has to finish the several projects left uncompleted by Ambode, who was denied a second term which would have given him enough opportunity to do so. The fact that these projects are taxpayers’ money, which should not be allowed to waste is enough reason to ginger Sanwo-Olu to action. According to Hon. Oludare Falade, former National Chairman of the Mega Progressives Peoples Party (MPPP), now Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN), and now a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), “I believe that the incoming governor, Babjide Sanwo-Olu, understands the terrain very well and will count on the support of his party’s political mind group. His government is advancing from allegations that affect the second term bidding of the outgoing governor.” Falade, a Leader at the Odi-Olowo Local Council Development Authority (LCDA), added, “by background, Sanwo-Olu has a wide knowledge of what is there to do and how to do it. Beyond infrastructure, his government is going to better the lives of Lagosians, both residents and indigenes. “The energy to do it is an added advantage. Age is on his side. He has the political sagacity. He has the education. He can mop resources, both human and capital. His ability and competence is not in doubt. Lagosians will experience betterment in their lives through improved governance.” Remi Akano, a Lagos-based veteran journalist and public affairs analyst, added, “I have seen some of the structures Ambode started. Some, he finished; some, he did not. It will be foolish if the new governor fails to finish the projects. Government is a continuum. You cannot stop a project because you do not like who started it. It is taxpayers’ money. Buhari does not have any abandoned project. I believe that Sanwo-Olu and his team will not do that. He can modify. But, he should not abandon any. Four years is not too long for him to go back to the people. There is always a second term.” However, Sanwo-Olu must learn from the perceived mistakes of Ambode to avoid a banana peel, even from within his party. He must ensure that he carries along the party leaders and “give Caesar what belongs to Caesar” without been slavish. He must know that Lagos is a Progressive state, and as such, he should carry out projects and programmes that will impact positively on the masses. Sanow-Olu should know that four years are not too long. He should realise that after this first term, he will return to both the party and the people for a second term if he performs well in the first. He must therefore eschew pride, and remain humble as he has been carrying himself since after he emerged victorious in hr APC primary and his electoral success. Lucky for Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State earns a lot in terms of Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and is one of the richest states in the country. It also does not owe any salary arrears. Therefore, Sanwo-Olu has no reason not to perform. Sanwo-Olu has started well with the recent Executive Order to check the perennial traffic situationin the state. He should also do something about the heaps of waste that are still found everywhere in the state. Lagosians really expect action from their new governor, Sanwo-Olu.