The Red Devils have had the right-back, 21, as one of their top summer targets and finally sealed his £50m move to Old Trafford on Saturday, According to Sportbible.com. And the ex-Crystal Palace star has followed in the same footsteps as Benjamin Mendy and Aymeric Laporte in becoming one of the most expensive defenders in the world. Wan-Bissaka is also tied for the most expensive English player in history alongside Kyle Walker, who was snapped up for £50m by Manchester City in 2017. Liverpool star Virgil van Dijk, 27, remains the most expensive player in the world following his £75m move from Southampton in 2018. Posted below are the six most expensive defenders in the world. 1. Virgil van Dijk (Liverpool): £75m
2. Lucas Hernandez (Bayern Munich): £70m
3. Aymeric Laporte (Manchester City): £57m
4. Benjamin Mendy (Manchester City): £52m
5. Kyle Walker (Manchester City): £50m
6. Aaron Wan-Bissaka (Manchester United): £50m Wan-Bissaka, who completed his childhood dream by moving to Old Trafford, said that it was an “unbelievable feeling and an honour to call myself a Manchester United player.” The England U21 international added: “I can’t wait to get going and integrated into the squad. “I will have a short break now after the European Championships, but I’m looking forward to starting training with the manager and my new teammates on the pre-season tour.” Wan-Bissaka is Ole Gunnar Solskjær’s second summer signing following the arrival of Daniel James from Swansea City. And the Norwegian, 46, shared his excitement about working with the highly rated full-back at United. “Aaron is one of the best upcoming defenders in the Premier League,” he said. “He has the right work ethic, talent and mentality to play for Manchester United and he fits exactly the type of player that we are looking to bring into the squad to help us improve and push on further. “Aaron is a young, hungry player and eager to learn and that’s important at his age. “I am delighted he has signed with us and we look forward to continuing his tremendous development so far.” Will Wan-Bissaka be a hit at Old Trafford?