Powered by RubiQube Ad Network IBADAN – A section of Orita-Aperin Market, Ibadan, Oyo State, was gutted by fire on Saturday morning leading to the destruction of goods worth millions of naira. Sunday INDEPENDENT correspondent who was at the scene of the incident met with the Babaloja of Orita-Aperin market, Chief Abiodun Hammed, who said that goods worth over N20 million were lost to the inferno, adding that the cause of the incident was yet to be known. According to him, “The fire started by 12 midnight on Friday, and we immediately called on Oyo State Fire Service but unfortunately, when they got here, the nozzle of their truck was not functioning, so we have to resolve to self help by putting out the fire ourselves, or else, the loss would have been more than this. “Most of the owners of the shops affected by the fire just bought goods into their respective shops. This was what makes the total value of the goods affected by the fire to be much. “The shops that were affected included shop of a jewelries seller, shop of a food ingredient seller, shop of a provisions seller, red oil seller and herbs seller among others, N5,600,000 was the worth of jewelries that got burnt, and most of the goods affected in the shops of the herbs seller cannot be replace because they were some ancient goods that cannot be replaced.” He, however, appealed to the Oyo State government to come to their aids because the loss was too much for the victim to bear. One of the victims, whose shop was also affected by the fire, Latifat Adegbola, appealed to the state government to assist them financially because the money they used to buy the affected goods was loan which attract interest. “All my goods have been consumed by the fire and the remaining ones are useless. We are calling on the state government to come to our aid so that we can survive,” she said. Also speaking, a vegetable seller, Mariam Oladepo, who said she lost goods worth over N100,000 to the inferno, added that her shop had been razed by the fire and nothing remained for her and her children to feed on again. The market women, however, attributed the level of damage by the inferno to the poor functioning of the State Fire Service truck that was brought to the scene of the incident. “The fire service truck that was brought here to curtail the fire was not functioning well. We have to start using the bowl to fetch water from the truck to curtail the fire. But, this took us a lot of time,” said a sympathiser.