Manchester United have acquired Aaron Wan-Bissaka from Crystal Palace for what could be a £50m deal but the Red Devils are planning on doing much more business during the summer transfer window, According to Manchestereveningnews.co.uk. United have agreed an initial £45m fee with Palace which will rise thanks to add-ons over time. The much-talked about transfer has finally been completed but the big question is what are the club planning next? The MEN understands that the club aim to target a midfielder next up, with the Red Devils interested in both Bruno Fernandes and Sean Longstaff. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and the board are said to be working ‘calmly’ to add quality to the squad as United continue to be linked with an array of players. That’s shown by the amount of players who could join United when it comes to the latest transfer odds by SkyBet. You won’t see stars such as Matthijs de Ligt and Neymar on the list below as we run through the players with short odds to sign for United. Transfer odds on potential United signings
Sean Longstaff Solskjaer is in the market for a midfielder and United have long been linked with Newcastle United youngster Sean Longstaff. The 21-year-old is not at the top of United’s list when it comes to midfield options but the odds have shortened in recent weeks. The Red Devils are now priced at 2/5 to sign the promising playmaker. Bruno Fernandes United are interested in signing Bruno Fernandes from Sporting Lisbon after the attacking midfielder’s fantastic displays this past season. The 24-year-old took his game to another level in Portugal by scoring 20 goals and providing 13 assists in the league. United are 4/6 to sign Ferndandes and have jumped above Liverpool to become the favourites to land his signature. Christian Eriksen Tottenham Hotspur star Christian Eriksen is priced the same as Fernandes to join United, though the chances of a deal happening may be a little further away. Real Madrid have been linked with the 27-year-old but the Red Devils are favourites and priced at 9/4. Issa Diop Another player heavily linked with United has been West Ham United defender Issa Diop. The Old Trafford outfit are priced at 2/1 to land his services. James Maddison One player who is at much shorter odds than most to join United this summer is Leicester City star James Maddison. Maddison has recently been at the European Championships with England and it’s reported that Solskjaer will step up his interest in the 22-year-old upon his return to England. Maddison is priced at 1/3 to make the switch to Old Trafford. Youri Tielemans Another midfielder linked with United is Youri Tielemans, who spent last season on loan at Leicester City from Monaco. The Foxes are slight favourites to sign the 22-year-old permanently, though the Red Devils are priced at 5/2.