Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ADO-EKITI – An unidentified herdsman has been arrested by the Police for allegedly beheading his lover for failure to spend the Sallah celebration with him. Report say the incident which occurred at Ilasa Ekiti, Ekiti East Local government has thrown the whole community into mourning as the deceased was known to be very humble and respectful. Caleb Ikechukwu, Police Public Relations Officer of the state who confirmed the incident said investigation has been launched to unravel the causes of such criminal act while more details would be made available to newsmen. The victim also a Fulani was attacked beside a stream where she had gone to fetch water with her younger sister. The assailant was said to have ambushed the lady and cut off her head while she bent down to fetch water from the stream. He was reported to have took to his heal but was later arrested through the information provided by the younger sister of the deceased who was at the scene of the crime. The Alasa of Ilasa, Oba Ajayi Omolagba revealed that the young lady had been allegedly handed over to the suspected assailant as a future wife while she was still a teenager in line with their custom and tradition. However, trouble started last month when the suspect requested the lady to spend the Eld-el-Fitr with him. The failure of the family of the lady to release her before, during and after the celebration angered the suspect who assumed the contract had been breached by the family hence the dastardly act. Another report says the lady after growing up observed that the supposed husband was a drunkard and drug addict thereby avoiding him for necessary marriage arrangements. In a chat, some relatives of the deceased who did not want their names mentioned expressed sadness over the development. Another report said the suspected murderer made a request to spend the Eld-el-Fitr with his wife adding that the lady was supposed to go to him the next day before he killed her. Speaking with newsmen the Alasa of Ilasa Oba Ajayi Omolagba condemned the incident and said the community had been in shock since the incident occurred. He said he had summoned families of all parties involved and their landlords to a meeting where resolutions were reached on how to forestall future occurrence. Oba Omolagba noted that the community would also make necessary rituals to appease to God as such incident was strange and a taboo in the land.