Abuja – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari and his vice, Yemi Osinbajo to prove their integrity by declaring their assets. The party added that they should prove to Nigerians and the world that they are not corrupt and have been leading Nigeria by example. PDP, in a statement by its Deputy National publicity Secretary, Diran Odeyemi also challenged the newly elected President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan and the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila to make public their assets in other to convince Nigerians that they are indeed a partner in the fight against corruption. The party said the Code of Conduct Bureau had all the while, insisted that it could not release details of assets of the President and other top officials without their consent. PDP, therefore called on all high-ranking political office holders to waive the caveat placed on the Code of Conduct Bureau and make their asset known to Nigerians. The party recalled that if former Chief Justice of the Federation, Walter Onnoghen currently facing prosecution could be made to face prosecution for not declaring in full his asset, other top government officials should also submit themselves for public scrutiny through public declaration of what they own as asset. The party queried the tardiness of President Buhari in subsequently directing CCB to release details of his assets in 2015 and now, 2019 for proper scrutiny to convince Nigerians that he is not corrupt and therefore capable of fighting corruption. The party said: “We believe laying claim to sainthood is easy as President Buhari and others have been doing all along, but Nigerians deserve to see beyond whatever government forces down their throats. By making public declaration of their assets, Nigerians will be able to see better and judge accordingly. “By making public their assets, Nigerians will see how many heads of cattle have been added to what President Buhari had. Blowing hot and cold at the same time is not the hallmark of a leader with clean hands.” The party warned that should the President and others fail to make public declaration of their assets, further aspersions would be cast on the anti-graft efforts of the present administration. PDP alleged that rather than build on several innovations to end graft which was introduced by PDP administrations, President Buhari appears directionless and uncoordinated to stop corruption in the country. “We urge President Buhari and other top government officials to be more coordinated and exhibit transparency not only in fighting graft but in their dealings with Nigerians, because, no matter how fast lies move, truth will catch up,” PDP said.