LAGOS – Justice Sybil Nwaka of an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court yesterday fixed today, June, 27 for the hearing of a fresh bail application of Chrisland School Supervisor, Adegboyega Adenekan standing trial for allegedly defiling a two year old pupil (names withheld) of the school.
The judge had on Tuesday revoked the earlier bail granted Adenekan by a Magistrate court at the commencement of his trail at the lower court.
“My intuition is telling me that the defendant may not appear tomorrow for the continuation of his trial. For his own security I am hereby revoking his bail and order that he be remanded in Kirikiri Prisons until the next adjourned date,” the judge had ruled.
At resumed proceedings yesterday, the trial judge again declined the request by defence counsel, Olatunde Adejuyigbe (SAN) to allow Adenekan to continue to enjoy the bail granted by the lower court.
The judge insisted that the defendant shall remain in Kirikiri Prisons pending hearing of his bail application and advised the defence to file formal application for bail.
She revoked the bail granted by a magistrate court which the defendant has been enjoying since commencement of trial as the court was not provided the conditions attached to it.
Earlier while under cross examination by the prosecution,B.T Boye, the defendant told the court that it was incorrect to say that his victim was able to describe and locate his office because he once took her there.
He said that he disagreed with the result of the polygraph test conducted on him because he believed it was fabricated by the mother of the victim.
Adenekan said he was not aware that it was the doctor at the school’s clinic where his victim was taken to that asked her to draw his manhood.
He insisted that nobody told him what transpired in the clinic.
The defendant claimed that he was not aware that the police made several attempt to locate him or that the matter was transferred to the Gender Desk of the Lagos State Police Command, Ikeja.
When asked where he was while the Police were looking for him for about ten days after a formal complaint was filed against him.
He said he was in Opebi branch of the school before he was instructed to proceed to Ladipo Oluwole branch by the school’s management.
He insisted that there was no connivance between him and the school authority to stay away.
He said the school placed him on suspension without pay indefinitely until the conclusion of the on-going trial.
Justice Nwaka has adjourned the matter till October 18.