Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and the Police have been urged to prosecute the lawyers and those who were fingered in the report of the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petition, which recently probed a case of fraud and forgery brought against First Bank of Nigeria Plc, by Dr. Francis Nwufoh, owner of Whiteplains British School, Abuja. Zaphaniah Jisalo presented the petition on behalf of Whiteplains at the House of Representatives’ sitting of Tuesday, December 11, 2018. The committee directed the “police to conclude investigations and prosecute if necessary” just as it “charged the disciplinary committee of the Nigerian Bar Association to investigate the case and bring the culpable lawyers who perpetrated the forgery to book. The report released to Judiciary Correspondents on Tuesday by Nwufoh, was signed by Uzoma Nkem-Abonta, Committee Chairman and Yakubu W. Yilji (PST), Committee Clerk. The committee observed from documentary evidence and oral testimonies by parties that there was a Tripartite Mortgage agreement purportedly signed by the petitioner and First Bank. The committee said the Tripartite Legal Mortgage was secured by fraud since all the signatories denied ever signing same”. “That the Tripartite Legal Mortgage was forged by one Chuks Dibiezue, the owner of Lagardera & Co., who is an external solicitor to First Bank”. “That from the evidence led before this honourable committee, it is obvious that the lawyers who perfected the said Deed of Tripartite Legal Mortgage doctored or forged the signatures of the Directors of France- Lee Nigeria Ltd after discovering that the petitioner did not perfect his title to the said property in order to secure the perfection of the deed to Tripartite LegaI Mortgage” the report stated. Following its findings, the committee recommended the Central Bank of Nigeria to investigate the role of First Bank in the forgery of Deed of Tripartite Legal Mortgage documents, which altered the loan agreement. The committee directed, “The Directors of Land, Abuja Geographical Information System to expunge all the documents filed in securing the Deed of Tripartite Legal Mortgage over Plot No. 321 measuring approximately 1.8 hectares within Dakibiyu District Cadastral Zone B10 allocated to France-Lee Nigeria Ltd by virtue of the term of grant conveyance of approval dated July 24, 1998 and a certificate of occupancy dated August 31, 2005.