Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mr Godwin Emefiele, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), on Saturday emphasised the need to strengthen efforts over the coming years to stimulate growth and create jobs in critical sectors to insulate the economy from global shocks. Emefiele said this while giving a welcome address at a consultative roundtable titled, “Going for Growth” with some economic stakeholders in Lagos. The CBN boss said that leaders and policy makers needed to strengthen their resolve in achieving the goal. He also said that would assist in putting in place unconventional policies that would help insulate the economy from shocks in the global economy. The CBN governor said in doing that, the CBN had recently been caught in a syndrome termed, ‘The Dilemma of Monetary Policy in Nigeria’. Emefiele said, “Typically, for a nation to be seen to be prosperous, any citizen of that country will expect macro-economic indices such as low interest rate regime, stable exchange rate regime and robust reserve position, low inflationary environment, as well as an environment of full employment.” According to him, discussions and comprehensive recommendations will form part of the roadmap in actualising collective intent of ensuring the monetary policy authorities implement measures that will help drive the growth. Emefiele said the apex bank had taken a number of actions in the last five years to support the growth of the economy which had helped in achieving the macro-economic stability. Emefiele, however, said in spite of those results which were reassuring, the task of building a stronger economy was far from complete; with the pace of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth remaining fragile and lagging behind population growth rate of 2.7 per cent. He noted that the country had yet to see a substantial increase in credit to the private sector by the financial institutions. The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his opening remarks, said the state would continue to support the CBN’s drive in ensuring continuous economic growth.