Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Chef Ochi Emmanuel Ode is the Chairman, Middle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC) in South West geo-political zone. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on Nigeria’s 20 years of uninterrupted democracy, among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the 20 years of uninterrupted democracy in Nigeria? Nigeria’s 20 years of uninterrupted democracy could not be taken as real the democracy. The democracy we are currently practising is the survival of the fittest. It is still a jungle democracy. That is not the type of democracy Nigerians yearned for. Would you say that democracy has really taken its roots in the country? Democracy has not taken roots. That is why it is still a jungle democracy. As such, it is the survival of the fittest. Democracy is about love of the people. Currently, it is not yet about the people. It is about the elites trying to outsmart one another to the detriment of the masses. What vestiges of the military would you say are still found in political system? When you are practising jungle justice democracy, it is a militarised democracy. The Nigerian democracy as of today cannot be said or called true democracy because it is the survival of the fittest. You are out to suppress your opponents by whatever means, by hook or crook, even at the point of shedding blood. In the 2019 elections, before, during and after, a lot of blood was shed. It is not supposed to be like that. Democracy should be about love of the people and not about do-or-die. When democracy has been militarised, it lacks the law, it lacks sensibility. Would you say the political elite and Nigerians in general have learnt some lessons in these 20 years? What I will consider as lessons are lessons of bitterness and rancor, which is deep to the fabrics of the unity of the country. We are currently more divided by ethnic and religion more than ever in the history of Nigeria. The problem of ethnicity and religion is extended to cultism and class groups that are being expressed daily to further fragment the nation. More people are being killed with impunity because nothing is being done by government to bring to book those who are behind the ills of the society. What reforms would you proffer to ensure that Nigerian democracy stands? First, our leaders should purge themselves of the current characters in them which tend towards nepotism and inability to rise above pettiness and take the bull by the horns and set things right for posterity. Nigerians have fantastic ideas about reforms. But, the area of implementation is the basic problem. Some individuals and interests will be affected if the basic tenets of restructuring are applied. They will rather go against reforms so that their interests will be protected against the general interest of Nigerians. We need a leader who will rise up above and against selfish, personal and group interests. When we have such a leader, that is the only time we can get out of the current quagmire. President Muhammadu Buhari recently said that True Federalism is the best for Nigeria. What is your take on his assertion? When he suddenly made that statement, he took some Nigerians unawares. But, I see him not able to implement it because the Nigeria state is already cocked up, or better still, locked up by the elites who will go to any length to frustrate any genuine move to actualise restructuring of the Nigerian state. For instance, recently, the Nigeria Economic and Financial Unit gave an indication that the Federal Allocation will henceforth be given to the three tiers of government directly. The governors rose up stoutly against the move because that will take away their so-called funds which they think belongs to them and not the third tier of government. That is why most states will prefer appointed caretaker committees, who are stooges, or better still, conduit pipes for revenue leakages. During Jonathan administration, the saving of the National Sovereign Wealth (NSW) savings was considered. But, the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) led by then Gov. Rotimi Amaechi of Rivers State went to court to prevent the saving for the future. They succeeded and they shared the money which went to their private pockets and their cronies. The same Amaechi is now accusing the Jonathan government that they did not save even when the oil price was high. So, who is deceiving who? He has suddenly forgotten that he and his colleagues were the reasons for the Jonathan government not to save. Even in this current administration, the same thing is happening. Of all agitations for sharing, they have nothing to show for the revenue shared. What agenda would you proffer for President Buhari for his second term? I am happy he said, “People say I am Baba Go Slow. Don’t be surprised now in this second term.” That is a welcome development. But, the next day after the swearing in, Nigerians were informed that their President, had gone out of the country to attend the Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC) meeting. But, if I were him, in the next six months, I will sit tight to address the myriads of problems bedeviling the nation. Currently, there is a burning flame upon Nigeria. I don’t expect him to look outside Nigeria now. He should be concerned about how to immediately put off the burning flame. The oath he took is still very fresh. He swore to lead Nigeria right, to stop the killings, to stop experiences of Nigerians in areas of kidnapping and banditry because the primary duty of government is to protect lives and properties. Currently, people of his home state, Katsina, did not partake the swearing in of the in-coming administration of Alhaji Aminu Masari because of security concerns. For him to turn a blind eye and ear to that and go outside the country the next day is being insincere to his responsibility to the Nigerian people, even to his brothers and sisters in Katsina. The problem of leadership in Nigeria is that the personal aides who should listen to the yearnings of the people and advice the President have turned themselves to sycophants who will at any slightest opportunity call Nigerians who complain of this insecurity as wailers. It is indeed unfortunate. In what other areas do you think the President should focus his attention? The issue of the economy is vital. In his first term, he stood down governance for six months which was the major cause of recession. He should hit the ground running.  In less than one month, he should constitute his cabinet. We expect that he knows better now. Do you think former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s recent alarm on Fulanisation and Islamisation plot is real? Obasanjo said the truth. There are endless examples to buttress what he said which are in public domain. His government has budgeted billions to build ranches for the Fulani. They told the whole world that they will give N100 billion to the Fulani. Now, they want to establish Radio Fulani with Nigerians’ taxpayers’ money. Which other tribe has been granted that kind of goodies by this government? It will not be wrong to call this government a Fulani government. How do you see the country’s rising debt profile? Last year, I said in a similar interview that African nations, including Nigeria, would soon be a colony of China. In one of the news commentaries recently, the out-going Minister of Finance was quoted as saying that the total realisable income for 2019 is N3.5 trillion. Out of the figure, the government is expecting to service or use N2 trillion to pay interests for the loans already incurred, leaving a balance of N1.5 trillion for government. You can imagine that government hands are tied to embark on any tangible development in 2019. You can now see the danger that our future and the future of our unborn children have been mortgaged. This calls for fear. What advice would you proffer to Gov Samuel Ortom of Benue State? Gov Samuel Ortom should now learn better the art of governance. If it is true that experience is the best teacher, he should try to reduce the cost of governance to the barest minimum to meet his campaign promises. His first term was a colossal failure. He should rewrite his history to Benue people and have a place for posterity. He should take the welfare of workers seriously by paying them as at when due. He should ensure that pensioners are given their stipends in other not for them to die prematurely he should embark on infrastructures that have bearing with the people. He should ensure safety of lives and properties and encourage farmers in the real sense of it, not with propaganda, because he knows too well that Benue is an agrarian state. Nothing short of these things will meet the expectations of Benue people.