Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A traffic robber alleged to have swallowed her victim’s wedding ring in Oshodi Oke area of Lagos has been arrested by police operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the Lagos State Command. Dependable police source said the suspect Taofeek Adebayo, 19, was arrested along with one of the suspects Toheeb Tijani, 20, shortly after dispossessing two ladies who were driving in a grey Sienna bus of a gold earring and a set of wedding rings. The two other suspects, Samson Oluwa, 20 and Michael Amodu Adamu, 22, were arrested in an all-night sting operation in CMS by the police. The police said Taofeek Adebayo in company of his gang had on Friday pleaded with two gorgeously dressed ladies who were driving in a Sienna space wagon bus to assist them with money to buy food while their bus was held in a heavy traffic in Oshodi – Oke. The two ladies we gathered gave them a N100 note which the suspects rejected. The driver of the Sienna bus who pleaded anonymity said: “I and my colleague were returning from our association’s meeting and heading towards Ilasa. Three of them (pointing to the suspects) besieged our vehicle. There was a heavy traffic and we were stucked and couldn’t escape, we were scared .They demanded that we give them money for food, I asked my colleague to give me money. “She gave me N100 which I gave to them. They rejected it. One of them said, ‘eleyi ki I se owo ti wa’. I told them this is what I have. One of them pulled my left ear and removed my earring”. “Two others turned to the other side of my vehicle. They threatened to waste us if we don’t give them money. They screamed at us ‘Where is the money’, .They were in a hurry to leave our car, and face other motorists, so they forced my friend to surrender her wedding ring. “This fair guy (pointing to one of the suspects Adebayo) took the first one and swallowed it in our presence. His colleague took the other one”. When interrogated, Adebayo said, “I swallowed it but I have vomited it and handed it over to ‘Young Boy’ when the policemen were chasing us. I told him to hand over the rings to the ladies so that the police can release us but he fled with the two rings and earring”. His accomplice, Toheed Tijani, reported to be on the police wanted list for allegedly snatching a mobile phone from a commuter in traffic earlier in the day said, ‘I have released the phone to the LASTMA officials standing in Oshodi Oke. They told me that RRS officers were looking for me to arrest.”. The two other suspected traffic robbers were arrested on Friday midnight when they were robbing a motorist who was stranded around CMS, Lagos. Commenting on the development, the Commissioner of Police, Muazu Zubairu stated that the police would not relent on its efforts towards making Lagos safe for law abiding citizens. He directed that the suspects be transferred to Makinde Police Division, Oshodi and SCID, Yaba.