Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Congolese government formally declared a measles epidemic on Tuesday after reporting 1,500 deaths from the disease this year in a country still battling the worst Ebola outbreak in its history, According to Telegraph.co.uk. Aid agencies called for a rapid escalation in the distribution of vaccines amid evidence that the disease is spreading much faster than previously thought. At least 87,000 suspected measles cases have been reported in 23 of Congo’s 26 provinces since January, a 700 per cent increase compared with the same period last year, the country’s health ministry said. The scale of the epidemic, likely to be the worst since 2011, has deepened a health crisis that has left Congo trying to contain three major disease outbreaks simultaneously. More than 10,000 cases of cholera have been reported in the country since the start of the year, leading to 240 deaths. Meanwhile, 1,384 people have died of the Ebola virus since it was first reported in the east of the country last August, the second deadliest outbreak of the disease in global history. But measles has proved deadlier than either, in part because it is even harder to contain. One of the world’s most contagious diseases, the measles virus can live in the air when’re an infected person has coughed or sneezed for up to two hours. Although measles kills in only about 2 per cent of cases, the young are most likely to suffer complications from the virus and the vast majority of Congo’s fatalities have been children aged under five, health workers say. More than 2m children received measles vaccinations in April, but the charity Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), warned that far more inoculations would be needed to halt the spread of the disease. Congo has a population of 81m, more than 40 per cent of whom are children of 14 or younger. “In view of the scale of the epidemic, more resources are needed in addition to the efforts already made in recent months,” said Rachel Séguin, MSF’s medical coordinator in Congo. “Ensuring the supply of vaccines and medicines is essential and needs to happen as soon as possible.” Although measles cases are reported every year in Congo, it is unclear why the disease has spread so rapidly in recent months. Measles is resurgent in many parts of the world, however, including in parts of the West where some parents have refused to inoculate their children against it on the basis of debunked claims linking vaccines to autism. The World Health Organization, a United Nations agency, estimates that the number of measles cases worldwide quadrupled in the first three months of the year. Fighting measles is particularly challenging in Congo because poor roads, local conflicts that spawn huge numbers of refugees and a ramshackle public health system make it difficult for health workers to respond quickly and robustly to an outbreak. These constraints largely explain why, according to World Bank estimates, one in five Congolese children have never been vaccinated against measles.