Powered by RubiQube Ad Network President Muhammadu Buhari on June 12 Democracy Day, spoke to the citizens, who were irked that he did not deliver any during his second term inauguration on May 29, 2019. Since he made the speech, a cross section of Nigerians had been wondering what made the speech special. Buhari’s Democracy Day speech, fairly long as it was, could it be said to be different or special from his other speeches? A cross section of the populace has been wondering if President Buhari’s speech on Democracy Day inspires hope in Nigerians, especially his promise to lift over 100million Nigerians out of poverty. Excerpt Of Buhari’s Democracy Day Speech “For the next four years, we will remain committed to improving the lives of people by consolidating efforts to address these key issues as well as emerging challenges of climate change, resettling displaced communities and dealing decisively with the new flashes of insecurity across the country, and the impacts on food scarcity and regional stability. “We are not daunted by the enormity of the tasks ahead. Instead, we are revived by this new mandate to work collaboratively with State and Local Governments, Legislators, the Diplomatic Corps and all Nigerians to rebuild and reposition our country as the heartbeat and reference point for our continent. “Fellow Nigerians, Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, despite the enormous resources pledged to infrastructure development these past four years, there remains the urgent need to modernise our roads and bridges, electricity grid, ports and rail systems. “Whilst agriculture and industrial output have recovered since the recession, we are more committed than ever to work with the private sector to improve productivity and accelerate economic growth. “The Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index, which is the gauge of manufacturing activity in the country has also risen for 26 consecutive months since March 2017 indicating continuous growth and expansion in our manufacturing sector. “It still takes too long for goods to clear at our seaports and the roads leading to them are congested. It still takes too long for routine and regulatory approvals to be secured. These issues affect our productivity and we are committed to addressing them permanently. “Our government will continue work to reduce social and economic inequality through targeted social investment programs, education, technology and improved information. “Our social intervention programmes are a model for other nations. Together with state governments, we provide millions of school children with meals in primary schools, micro loans to traders and entrepreneurs, skills and knowledge acquisition support to graduates and of course, conditional cash transfers to the poorest and most vulnerable in our society. “A database of poor and vulnerable households is being carefully built based on age, gender, disability, educational levels for proper planning in this Administration’s war against poverty. “A database of unemployed but qualified youth has also been developed under the National Social Investment Programme which can be used by the public and private sectors for recruitment purposes. Cumulatively, nearly 2 million beneficiaries have received aid under this Programme apart from Anchors Borrowers Programme and School Feeding initiative each reaching 2 million recipients. And we will do more. Much more. “Fellow Nigerians, Your Excellencies, Ladies & Gentlemen, we know that there exists a strong correlation between economic inequality and insecurity. When economic inequality rises, insecurity rises. But when we actively reduce inequality through investments in social and hard infrastructure, insecurity reduces. “The disturbing increase in rates of kidnapping,banditry and other criminal activities can be attributed to the decades of neglect and corruption in social investment, infrastructure development, education and healthcare. This issue is further compounded by the impact of our changing climate and ecology. “The ECOWAS and Sahel regions, starting from Chad all the way to Mali, are also experiencing adverse impacts of drought and desertification, which have triggered waves of human displacement; conflicts between farmers and herdsmen; terrorism; and a fundamental socio-economic change to our way of life. “These issues are regional and not unique to Nigeria alone. The problems call for increased regional and international cooperation in developing a sustainable solution. “As Chairman of ECOWAS, I will be hosting a regional security summit of heads of states in the Sahel to develop a Joint Strategy to continue our efforts in addressing these issues. “Fellow Nigerians, Your Excellencies, Ladies & Gentlemen, at the heart of inequality and insecurity, is pervasive corruption. When we took office we realised that if you fight corruption, corruption will fight back – and we have seen this at all levels. “For Nigeria to progress, a collective resolution to address corruption and foster broad-based prosperity is required to create a country that is not only for a few privileged, but for all Nigerians. “This charge is not only to Civil Servants, Ministers, Legislators and State Government functionaries, but also to corporate leaders. We shall make greater investments in our rural economies. We shall aggressively source locally our raw materials. We have incentives for investments specifically made in rural communities. “However, nationwide development cannot occur from Abuja alone; it must occur at States. And Government cannot do it alone. I therefore implore all state governments, especially those with large rural economies, to aggressively solicit investments in your states. Invest in developing human capital, reducing bureaucracy and corruption, hosting and attending investment summits and improving the ease of doing business. “At this point, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the entrepreneurs, investors and venture capitalists who have built or are building agro-processing projects; petrochemical plants; crude oil and solid mineral refineries; energy exploration; software development projects; telecom infrastructure; health, education and manufacturing projects; and the like, across our country. “I would like to make special mention to promoters of our small businesses that are proudly making goods and services for export and for local consumption. The Nigerian economy rises and falls on the strength of your investments and productivity. “We will continue to listen to your ideas and plans not just about how we can secure more investment, but how your plans can help create a more equitable economy. “I also thank the labour unions, farmer groups and associations, organized private sector and the civil society organisations for their support and cooperation with our government these last four years. “We will continue to count on your support, guidance and understanding during the next four years. “I especially thank our traditional leaders and congratulate re-elected and newly elected State Governors and members of the National Assembly. Our government will continue to count on your support so that we can together move our country forward. “Fellow Nigerians, Your Highnesses, Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, despite the challenges over the last four years, my optimism about Nigeria’s future is unshaken and Nigeria’s role in the world as an emerging economic force is without a doubt. “Over the next four years, we are committed to assembling a strong team of Nigerians, and allies, to implement our transformative plans and proposals. “We will see significant focus, resource and, where necessary reform, in tertiary and technical education to reposition Nigeria’s workforce for the modern technological age. “We will accelerate investments in primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare programs, interventions and infrastructure as well as in upgrading of our medical personnel to stem the flight of our best trained people. “On food security, our farmers have made great strides in local production of rice, maize, cassava, poultry, fertilizer, fisheries and sesame. We remain resolute in supporting private sector in emphasizing backward integration and export expansion plans. Felling of trees to provide energy for domestic use is taking its toll on our rain forests, our ecology and our climate. Accordingly, we are taking steps to harness cleaner and more sustainable sources of electricity. We export over 2 million tons of cooking gas, yet we consume less than half a million tons. “We will work to address this issue and support rural communities with challenges of safely switching from firewood to cooking gas. Dedicated agro-industrial processing zones will be developed on a PPP basis to increase farming yields, agricultural productivity and industrial output. “Over 2,000 kilometers of ongoing Federal road and bridge projects across the country will be completed to reduce journey times and the cost of doing business. As I mentioned earlier, critical feeder roads will be built to facilitate easier transportation for people and goods from rural areas to major roads. “We are at advanced stages of securing investments to modernise and expand our transmission and distribution infrastructure, ensuring that electricity is available and affordable for all Nigerians. “Several rail, seaport and airport projects are at various stages of completion. We will open the arteries of transportation nationwide. “It is a fact that Nigeria has more gas reserves than it has oil. Over the last four years, we have become a net exporter of urea, which is made from natural gas. We invite investors to develop more natural gas-based petrochemical projects. “Fellow Nigerians, This government will not tolerate actions by any individual or groups of individuals who seek to attack our way of life or those who seek to corruptly enrich themselves at the expense of the rest of us. We will crack down on those who incite ordinary innocent people to violence and unrest. We will ensure that such actions are met with the strong arm of the law. “Nation building takes time. But we must take solace in the knowledge that this country, our country, has everything we require to make Nigeria prosper. “Fellow Nigerians, Your Highnesses, Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, I invite you to join me in this journey of rebuilding our nation. Our focus will not be to help the privileged few but to ensure that Nigeria works for Nigerians of all persuasions. That is a more just arrangement.” What Nigerians Think About Buhari’s Democracy Day Speech It’s The Usual Cock And Bull Story – UPN Scribe Chief Nnadiuko Emegbule Iheoha, Secretary Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), Orlu LGA, Imo State, said: “it was the usual cock and bull story and I personally do not see any light at the end of the tunnel. Mr. President’s speech was loaded with promises. But, he did not tell us when and how he would achieve all that he told Nigerians. “Poverty, hardship, insecurity, frustration and anger among Nigerians have continued to acquire much more dangerous dimensions since 2015. Among other things, the president assured that he would now confront insurgency headlong. But, do you think that the Boko Haram boys will cease fire? “I am not a prophet of doom and I am not excited by the speech of the president. Do we have any poverty alleviation programme in the land for now?” The Speech Lacks Credibility – Female Politician Mrs. Adanna Stella Okwukwe – Women Leader, Peoples Alliance for National Development and Liberty (PANDEL), Akwakuma Amakohia Ward, Owerri North LGA of Imo State, stated: “During his first term, the president did nothing to move the country forward, despite the fact that he knew that he would seek the mandate of the people again for a second tenure. “Now that he will leave office in 2023 without seeking our votes again, how do you think that he will perform? The speech lacks credibility. Nigerians would be looking for a needle in a hay sack if they take him seriously, because seeing is believing. Let us hope that the 9th National Assembly will make a difference in our political history this time round.” Buhari’s Democracy Day Speech Lacks Comprehension – Lecturer Dr. Richard Onojeru Izekomhe, a Benin-based university lecturer, in his reaction said: “After listening to the President’s speech, I tried to review it within myself and I was unable to arrive at an acceptable conclusion because I couldn’t comprehend what the President was trying to tell Nigerians. “All I have to say is that we should be patient with him and watch how he intends to implement his moving 100 million out of poverty within 10 years. I am not saying it is not possible for the fact that he can lay a foundation within the next four years that could lead to archive such feat in the next 10 years. “But, the President Buhari I know and observed in the last four years cannot do it. I am very sorry to say so and of course I am entitled to my own opinion. Although I am not a politician, I am in the teaching profession and based on what I have observed about Mr. President in the last four years, I think we should just pray for him to complete his next four years and go so that we can start from where he will leave the country. “I have since resigned my faith in him immediately I discovered that he came with his own agenda and the agenda is to lift the Fulani ethnic group higher and above every other tribes in the country and that is what he has succeeded in doing in his first four years and he will complete it and consolidate it in the next four years. “However, I wish to thank for all he has done so far on June 12 and let me quickly remind Mr. President that he was closed to Sani Abacha of blessed memory and if he had put in half of this effort he used to revalidate June 12 recently to advise or appeal to Abacha, I can assure you that M.K.O Abiola would have been sworn-in and all these brouhaha we are watching now like movies would not have arisen at all. “All the same, I thank Mr. President for immortalising Chief Abiola, especially for naming the Abuja National Stadium after him. I also want to use this opportunity to advise or appeal to Mr. President to try as much as possible to remember all those who lost their lives during the June 12 struggle without which also we are witnessing now would not make any meaning.” Buhari’s Democracy Day Speech Not Inspiring – Critic Ayantunji Ayodele, Osogbo, Osun State-based social critic and legal practitioner, observed that the promise by President Buhari in his Democracy Day speech to lift over 100 million Nigerians out of poverty is not inspiring at all because poverty is one of the main causes of current challenges facing Nigerians and the government. “With abundant endowed resources, we have continued as a nation to mismanage God’s gift to us and the population has continued to explode at faster rate; development is at slow pace which is the cause of the challenges. “Though, we were not expecting sweet speeches from Mr. President that at the end of the day nothing would be done, but it is very important not to close our eyes from some salient policies and programmes the current administration has taken that are germane in addressing the crisis at hand. “The anti-corruption war of the current administration is very crucial at reducing or bridging the wide gap between the rich and the poor in the country. “At 20 years of uninterrupted democracy, sweet speeches is not what we, as Nigerians, must be after or relying upon, but the intention of the administration to address the challenges on ground. “To do the needful, there is need for reorientation of Nigerians on the evil of corruption to our dear country and we must all join hands to fight it at all levels. So, we don’t need sweet speeches to inspire us but plans and programmes to alleviate the suffering of Nigerians,” he said. Ayodele further stressed that the only way this current administration could raise living standard of Nigerians is to boost and assist micro and small-scale businesses with revolving loans to boost their businesses and encourage small-scale entrepreneurship. “The government should also have plans for university graduates and unemployed youths by encouraging them to be grouped into cooperative societies to start one or two skills they have acquired while in school and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). “The government should also try to make political positions less attractive, especially salary and allowances paid to members of National Assembly, stressing that money going to that arm of government is too bogus that discourages hardwork and increasing criminality in the country.”