Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I just can’t believe the way Nigeria’s football is going as it’s becoming difficult to hold on to any of the national teams as the one that can deliver in any competitive football tourney. I have sampled opinions of Nigerians in my school of thought over the caption of today’s column and their thoughts are as good as mine. Nigeria’s football is no longer the same, whether in the national leagues or the national teams. The quality of the country’s football had dwindled considering from when the Nigeria Football Association was founded in 1945 when the likes of Ghana, Ethiopia, and former Zaire et al mauled Nigeria in all categories of football matches. We graduated from mediocrity to what we began to experience in the beginning of 70’s through 1994 which was the country’s peak and some other flashes thereafter; but today the story of Nigeria’s football had gone sour, no doubt! During the period under review, the “Green Eagles” of Nigeria grew from the “Red Devils” and today the Super Eagles, which hit her zenith as Green Eagles to Super Eagles in the 80’s and 90’s when the former won the first Unity Cup, CAF Championship which was hosted in Lagos in 1980. It was with such players like goalkeepers Emmanuel Okala, Chairman Christian Chukwu, Mathematical Segun Odegbami, Dr. Felix Owolabi, late Muda Lawal, Ismaila Mabo, Haruna Ilerika, to mention but a few who were the defunct “Green Eagles”. They played with determination, passion and enthusiasm filled with patriotism of their nation. They were not only committed to the national team of the country but also to their various clubs. The management of the national teams was sound and patriotic, disciplined, committed and transparent in their administrative obligations. This attribute also reflected at the football club level, though, the clubs were few but well organised with envious standard. Nigeria had the likes of Leotis Boateng and Edward Ansah, all Ghanaians who played in Nigeria’s league and Boateng played for the then Green Eagles (A Ghanaian, I repeat). That was when the entire streets of Nigeria, market places, most shops will be locked down for the “Green Eagles” or the last two or three decades for Super Eagles on a match day, whether in Nigeria or away. The sensitisation of matches involving Nigeria and any other country was widely spread than any print or electronic media sensitisation of today. Newspapers, Radio houses or Television stations were not as many as they are today. In fact, it was only Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and Federal Radio Corporation of Radio which produced that eloquent commentator, late Ernest Okonkwo of blessed memory, who nicknamed most of our past and present but retired footballers of today. However, one of the major flavor of football, which is commentary died with Ernest Okonkwo! Though, I stand to be corrected with no apology to nobody! Therefore, bringing this past into present, you will agree with me that Nigeria’s football had gone down the drain some thirty years back. Judging from the focal point of incompetent coaches, corrupt coaches, imposition of unfit players, recycling of tired legs in today’s Super Eagles and the Super Falcons, nepotism, maladministration of football administrators both at the NFF and the Sports Ministry, tussle for leadership positions and corruption allegations on both sports bodies, it is enough to see the reasons why our national teams and clubs sides have become shadows of themselves in both local and international engagements. When I also reflect on irregularity of players’ salaries, non-payment of sign-on fees, poor welfares scheme for players, shortchanging of bonus and winning allowances of players, monetary scandals, sex scandals, lack of patriotism amongst strategists and executioners of Nigeria’s football, it is noteworthy to also say that these aforementioned are the cankerworms that had destroyed the passion of the game amongst Nigerians who are supposedly the bedfellows of the round leather game that had died thirty years ago. There’s no more strong will awareness of the national teams, whether in playing friendly matches or international competitions anywhere in the world. Nobody closes his shop again for Nigeria. The markets and streets bubble. Who cares if Nigeria is playing! So sad! Good Morning Nige