Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The long discussion for the establishment of state police was once more brought to the front burner last Monday when the Special Committee on Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) Reform, set up by President Muhammadu Buhari submitted its report. The panel, headed by Tony Ojukwu, among other things recommended the establishment of state and local government police, which a cross section of the Nigerian public had been agitating for as a panacea for the checking of rising wave of of crime and criminalities in the society. On receiving the report, Buhari requested that it be studied and a white paper produced within three months. Buhari directed that a three-man panel be set up to produce the white paper. The report of the white paper committee would form the basis of the decisions of the government on the many recommendations, including the setting up of state and local government police. However, since then, Nigerians have been debating on the relevance of the creation of state police in checking crime in the society. They ask: Is creation of state police the best solution to the security challenges in the country? State Police Not Ideal Option To Tackle Security Challenges – GDPN Chief Nnejiakolam Obimechina Nwakauba, Secretary, Grand Democratic Party of Nigeria (GDPN), Owerri Municipal, Imo State, said: “I have always sounded it loud and clear to all who care to listen that state police cannot be an ideal option to tackle security challenges in this country. “In the first place, it will be abused by state governments and will promote executive recklessness. You saw what happened in the last election in many states where killings and all forms of violence took the centre stage. Some of these ills were perpetrated by sitting governors seeking to return to power because they made maximum use of state apparatus to fight their opponents. “I laugh when some people argue that we should have state police because that is what is obtained in the advanced nation, but these people forget that the level of development, discipline and responsibility in those countries cannot be compared with what we have here. Please let a sleeping dog lie and let us reorganize, re-equip and re-retrain our police for maximum efficiency and productivity.” State Police Will Check Insurgency 0 Women Leader Mrs. Esther Nwamaka Onukwufor, Women Leader, Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP), Obowo LGA of Imo State, added: “I whole heartily support the creation of state police. If we have state police, there will be no more Boko Haram in such states as Borno, Yobe, Adamawa and Zamfara.  This is because, the policemen from these states will know where and how these blood thirsty Islamic sects operate. For example, if you are a policeman operating in Imo State, is there any LGA that you will not navigate and rout criminals? Let us test state police and if it fail. We can then device another option.” State Police Best Solution To Nigeria’s Current Security Challenges – Politician Mr. Shem Zagbayi, Minna-based politician, stated: “I don’t see anything wrong about this state police. In fact, now is the time the creation of state police is very necessary and the best solution to the current security challenges. I don’t believe that creating state/local government police or policing will clash with existing Nigerian Police Force (NPF), but they will complement each other in ensuring security of lives and properties. “This was what happened during the colonial era. We call them dandoka (the person that enforces law and order). They are employed from the local government and know virtually everybody and everything concerning every family and if anything happen for instance they know who or families by their names and number of people from each family and as such who to hold responsible in case any bad thing happens. “Come to think of it, you cannot expect Federal Police to go and arrest someone who stole another persons’ fowl, for instance, or to go and arrest a man for insulting his neighbour because I believe that should be the work of the state police. “Many people are entertaining fears in cases of any external aggression. Yes, that is when the federal police will step in and quell whatever external forces that may try to invade the peace of the community. My position on the question is that state police is necessary now and I can tell you that all these insecurity we are witnessing today will naturally fizzle out and Nigeria will be at peace. State Police Relevant To Tackle Insecurity – Don Dr. Raphael Omizu Aitanegbe, a university lecturer based in Benin, said: “There is no denying the fact that Nigeria, as a nation, is at present facing a precarious situation as far as security is concerned. Therefore, the creation of state police will serve as one of the options to tackle the present horrifying security problems in the country. “It will afford the state governors the opportunity to order emergency deployment of security to trouble spots from time to time. I was somehow embarrassed last year when the immediate past governor of Zamfara State and his Katsina counterpart cried out that they were overwhelmed by the security situation in their states. If they were having state controlled police, I don’t think they would have found themselves in such a situation. State police could help to salvage the situation to a large extent. “Our fears about state police have always been the possible abuse of the system by the politicians. But, under the present circumstance, I don’t think there is anybody looking at that direction now because we are heading towards security disaster. If urgent steps are not taken, it could consume the country. I will also want to suggest or recommend that the law creating state police should have a provision that would empower the local government to organise a sort of ‘Neighborhood Watch’ in their areas of jurisdiction. With such arrangement, the Nigeria police will have some breathing space that would afford them to render optimum service to the nation”. State police will address Insecurity – Critic Osogbo-based social critic, Akinwale Adegboye, has said the creation of state police will address to a large extent the security challenges in the country. Adegboye, who made the remarks while reacting to the argument on whether creation of state police is the best solution to the security challenges in the country, said that series of attack on innocent Nigerians demands a strategic move to curtail the crisis. He explained that the current security crisis will degenerate should the government fail to address it squarely. He said further that the nature and approach of attacks launched on Nigerians demand close monitoring and reaction adding that failure of the police to live up to expectations worse the situation. According to him, “the present police organization has failed Nigerians and it is risky to continue to entrust safety of lives and property in their care. “Despite huge resources government expended on the organization, the police has not done anything to justify the money spent on them. “To quell riot is becoming difficult for the police not to talk of series of killing and kidnapping but with state police, there will be a little more loyalty and dedication to duties than what we have now. “The zeal with which the police officers worked in protecting lives and property not effective with present arrangement. “Lots of bad eggs have infiltrated into the police as a result of quotas system and findings revealed that some police officers were supplying robbers’ guns and ammunitions for operation and collect them back after they were used. If present arrangement is not review immediately, it will be a disaster for Nigerians.”