ABUJA – The African Union Economic, Social and Cultural Council (AU ECOSOCC) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to engage the services of competent professionals to manage the nation’s economy and reduce the alarming rate of poverty in the country. Dr. Tunji Asaolu, Nigerian Representative in AU ECOSOCC, speaking at a media briefing in Abuja, asked Buhari to involve relatively younger and sharper brains in the constitution of his new cabinet, adding that most of the old and less productive people in the last cabinet should be replaced with more vibrant younger professionals who have the technical and intellectual knowhow to drive the economy. Asaolu called on Mr. President to use his second term in office to correct the obvious deficiencies or anomalies associated with his first term in office. “It is recommended that the policies of the incoming government must be such that should relieve pains and reduce hardship rather than inflict pains and increase hardship on Nigerians. “The last four years witnessed more companies going into extinction. No thanks to the sick economy. Economic policies this time must be geared towards encouraging local producers thus revamping dying companies. “Youth unemployment must be taken very seriously, your government must encourage entrepreneurial initiatives for sustainable economic growth, freedom of information must be encouraged”, he said. He further advised the Buhari-led administration to make fight against corruption all-embracing and eschew using the fight only against political opponents. “President Buhari’s government should be more ruthless on looters of our national treasury. “Fighting corruption should however, cut across the board without sacred cows.” “Neither should it be made to look like a witch-hunt against political opponents. After all, he is the Anti-Corruption Champion of Africa which should not be one sided.” Commenting on religion, Asaolu admonished All Progressives Congress (APC) government under Buhari to prove critics wrong by respecting and honouring the secularity of Nigeria. He added that the rumoured hidden agenda to islamise Nigeria should be killed and buried. On insecurity ravaging the country, he said, “President Buhari’s second term in office must concretely do more to secure lives and property. “Herdsmen’s inhumanity to man and callous brutality must be curtailed with all the vigour at government’s command. “Killings of innocent people must stop completely during the second term in office. There should be no banditry, no kidnapping or Boko Haram in the new dispensation.” Another Nigerian Representative in AU ECOSOCC, Mr. John Oba, pleaded with Buhari government to give priority attention to agriculture and climate change. Oba also called on the present administration to, as a matter of urgency, sign African Continental Free Trade Agreement, adding that other African countries look up to Nigeria to show leadership in all facets. The AU-ECOSOCC is the Advisory Organ of the African Union (AU) established under the provisions of Articles 5 and 22 of the African Union’s Constitutive Act to serve as the vehicle for building a strong partnership between governments and all segments of African civil society. The AU-ECOSOCC was officially launched and inaugurated in Durban, South Africa by President Jakaya MrishoKikwete, the President of the United Republic of Tanzania and Chair of the Union.