Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Jurgen Klopp ended his Champions League drought winning the trophy at his third attempt on Saturday. This the German did when Liverpool, who lost to Real Madrid last year beat Tottenham Hotspur 2-0. Klopp reached the 2013 final with Dortmund but lost to Bayern Munich at Wembley. He also guided Liverpool to the final in 2018 and also lost 3-1 to Real Madrid. But on Saturday, he ended his long wait for a European title, ending a run of six losing finals to join the club of Anfield legends. Mo Salah penalty within the first two minutes of the final after a questionable hand ball decision by the referee started the victory parade before Divock Origi double their lead on 87th minute, and won their sixth title in the process. The Egyptian forward hammered the penalty past Spurs keeper Hugo Lloris, who dived the right way but couldn’t stop it. The penalty was given after Spurs midfielder Moussa Sissoko unintentionally blocked a pass by Sadio Mane with his arm. But the penalty decision was somewhat controversial as replays seemed to show the ball hit the Frenchman’s shoulder. After the penalty, the game really did not live up to expectation as both sides were very cautious not wanting to make mistakes. The first half ended 1-0. On resumption, the game followed the same pattern as both teams continued their cautious play until in the 87th minute when origi ended any hope of Tottenham comeback. The Belgian, who came on as a substitute in the second half, drove a low shot into the right hand corner after Spurs failed to clear a corner whipped in by James Milner. Spurs fans rejoiced as news broke around an hour before kickoff that their super striker would be starting as the club look to win their first trophy in 11 years. The return of Kane, Spurs’ top scorer this season with 24 goals in all competitions, is a major boost for the London club. But his presence was never felt. Last night marks the first time Tottenham have reached the Champions League Final in their history, while it’s Liverpool’s ninth final. They were in the final in 2018 falling to beat Real Madrid in Kiev.