Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Former Super Eagles winger, Felix Owolabi, wants football culture institutionalised in the country, calling for an end to the fire brigade approach to age grade tournaments. He made the call against the backdrop of the elimination of Flying Eagles by Senegal from the ongoing FIFA U-20 World Cup in Poland. Flying Eagles lost 2-1 to Senegal on Monday in their Round of 16 tie. Owolabi, in the interview with News Agency of Nigeria believes that the absence of football culture was responsible for the country’s ouster in Poland. “I’ve said it several times that Nigeria needs a football culture in a football structure. “A football structure has to be on ground which will form the basis that we need to start getting them young right from the tender age of six, 12 and 15,” he said. He said that it was high time the country stopped the fire brigade approach to age-grade competitions, adding that the players would have done better in a more organised structure. “In a situation where we in few months engage in a fire-brigade attitude by putting the players together will limit the level which they can attain. “In some fire brigade approaches, we may get some results, but will not be enduring and will not help in the development of the game. “The boys to the best of my knowledge tried their best which may not be enough, but I want the nation to appreciate them because of their individual efforts. “Sometimes, we need the expertise of a coach because at this time around we must tell ourselves the home truth. We should not concentrate too much on the competition but the players,” he said. Ex-international Wahidi Akanni came down hard on the team describing their performance as poor. “I wasn’t surprised at all, the team didn’t impress me one bit, obviously they have been lucky to have even qualified from the group stage. “They lack tact, we have seen better U-20 squads in recent times, this is not just a well-coordinated squad,” he said. “In my days, players were picked from every nook and cranny of this country but this selection, I don’t understand