Chief Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), a former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI speaks on President Muhammadu Buhari’s Democracy Day speech and other issues. Excerpts: Were you impressed by the speech given by President Muhammadu Buhari in his address to the nation on June 12, Nigeria’s new Democracy Day? I was not inspired because it was not the kind of speech that I expected. I expected a foundation laying speech; meaning that if you are building a house, you find deal with foundation issues. I think Nigeria lacks the foundation and the fact that for instance, if you look at the first six highest political offices in Nigeria and there is no Igbo man is worrying which the President hopes to achieve development and success. I was expecting the President to lay a foundation for a strong, united, undivided Nigeria. I didn’t hear that. We Must Restructure Nigeria Or Forget Development –Fasehun Notwithstanding, what I heard gives me a slight ray of hope. I was impressed with the issue of lifting 100 million people out of poverty in 10 years. So, I was impressed with the fact that there will be strong men to do the job. So, what I am looking at now is to watch out for the next few days to see the kind of people that will be appointed to drive the ship of state. If the men that come out are really men of timbre and caliber, then I can say that we stand a fighting chance. So for now, I will withhold judgment. The speech for me was short of my expectation but it contained elements that I like but I hope he would have understood the need to talk about foundational issues. We can’t talk about creating jobs in Nigeria or lifting people out of poverty if the foundation is shaky, if some people are excluded, if the cry of marginalization is burning like flames in the East. These are things that need to be sorted. A leader, like a father will settle the quarrel of all the children. So, I had wished that there was something in the speech that will unite Nigerians. There was nothing like that. What that would have been is how we can bring ourselves together politically and create a foundation that is sustainable and agreeable. Because what has happened is that Nigerians haven’t agreed and two, the formula of living together has always been imposed. The one that President Buhari is enjoying now was imposed by Decree 34 of 1998 under General Abdulsalami Abubakar. So, I would have thought that a speech to the people would have been predicated on the fact that the President understands the need to deal with that problem. It would have been important because a lot of ears are listening. Having said that, it will mean that the dividing forces that we see across Nigeria from the North East to the North-Central to the North- West and obviously in the South- East will continue to grow. Once you have a house divided, it cannot be united. So, I will reserve judgment until I see the ministerial list. A Muddle On Social Intervention As an advocate of restructuring, does this declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day in any way address Nigeria’s national question? How can? That’s a totally different issue. How can? I expect that President Buhari will use the opportunity of June 12, when he is going to make an inaugural statement, to make a major policy statement. As you know, he didn’t say a word when he was sworn in for a second term on May 29. And I think not just us who were in the civil rights movement for June 12 will understand that unless Nigeria’s problematic issues are addressed constructively, we are going to be in this situation of no roads, no jobs, no electricity and no nothing for a long time. It’s simply impossible that Nigeria can run on what democratic scholars call centrifugal democracy, meaning that the centre is very strong. So, we need to start the process that simply devolves powers to the states or regions because there is a question mark on which are the federating units. Will it be the 36 states, the six regions or two more regions as people are advocating: one in the Mid-West and another in the Middle Belt to make it eight regions? But whether it is the 36 states or the six or eight regions, what is critical is that we need to unbundle the powers of the Federal Government. So, we can’t begin to talk about Nigeria if we don’t deal with the structures around which the country is formed. The current political model has expired. It’s like you have an iPhone and your iPhone’s operating system expires. You will have no phone. So, right now, we don’t have an operating model. I expect that the June 12 speech would deal with that, to say it is important that we have a model that can work for us. With the recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day, the question on many lips is what next with regard to the electoral process? I would expect that electoral reforms should be the seventh amendment to the constitution after devolution of powers to the states or regions. But let me speak on the ‘I’ before the ‘NEC’. INEC should be truly independent. If INEC were independent in the real sense, we can always tell who has won and who has not won an election, in that INEC, for instance, makes everything, all the records of an election, available for all to see. INEC should be so open that if I question the election of my opponent, it just makes the records of the election available. INEC just goes to the court as a neutral observer and says, ‘here are all the results’. INEC is not interested in whether it made mistakes or didn’t make mistakes in the conduct of election. It just says ‘here are all the results as we followed them’. But when the onus is on the petitioner, the person who is challenging the result to prove, that’s why petitioners don’t succeed. So, there must be an amendment that puts the onus on INEC to present results. Once you have done that, then the credibility of the election is determined. Everybody will know that these are the results. So, I’m expecting the next major amendment to deal with the issue of independence of INEC. If INEC becomes truly independent, the tension in the electoral process will go down. There is so much tension each time there is an election in this country; it’s as if we are in a civil war. People kill each other just to get to power. So, this is part the things that needs to change. Non-inclusion Of Igbo Man In First Six National Positions Worrisome– Agbakoba