Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Ninth National Assembly has just elected its leadership with the All Progressives Congress (APC), the ruling party, which has majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate, producing the Senate President and the Deputy Senate President, as well as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and Deputy Speaker. In the Senate, while Senator Ahmed Lawan emerged Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege was elected Deputy Senate President. In the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, was elected Speaker, while Ahmed Wase emerged the Deputy Speaker. However, it would be recalled that the National Assembly leadership that emerged, though elected, were according to the dictates of the party’s leadership, as dictated by the party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, with the backing of President Muhammadu Buhari. Oshiomhole was in fact visibly present in the two chambers during the elections to ensure compliance, as the party leaders did not want what happened in 2015 when the National Assembly leaders that emerged were not in tandem with the dictates of the party, hence there was a disharmonious relationship between the executive and the legislature on one hand and the ruling party and the National Assembly leadership. This time around, the APC did everything possible to whip its lawmakers into line to ensure that the National Assembly leadership the party wanted was elected, in its plan to ensure party supremacy. Since the emergence of the National Assembly leadership, the question among Nigerians is: With APC’s candidates as Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives, will the Ninth National Assembly be a rubber stamp of the Executive? It Is Too Early To Say NASS Will Be Rubber Stamp UPN Scribe, Orlu, Imo State, stated: “Well, like the saying goes, you can never ascertain the true colour of a man until you give him power. If the two men at the helm of affairs of the NASS can prove that they are men of honour, integrity and true democrats and can maintain the principle of separation of power, the executive cannot dictate what they would do. “This is part of the problems of the nation’s constitution because it says that the party in the majority should produce the leaders. They have just been inaugurated and so it will be unfair to conclude that being of the same APC political family with the executive, that they would be stooges to latter.” Buhari Won’t Be Interested In What Happens In NASS A Benin-based lecturer, said: “I will say yes to an executive headed by a President who is ready to implement Programmes for the benefit of the people. I don’t see Mr. President as a leader who will have time for the legislators, like what he did in his first term. “Did you see him throughout his first four years taking interest in what members of the National Assembly were doing? Go and mark my word, Mr. President will not be interested in what the National Assembly is doing, let alone making them rubber stamp. “Nigerian democracy would have been in limbo since the last four years, but for members of the National Assembly who breathed life into the nostrils of Nigeria, democracy. “I believe the next four years would be worst because Mr. President is still seeing himself as a military man, who has no time for “bloody civilians”. As I said before, let us be patient with him because four years is not eternity. “My advice to members of the National Assembly is that they should uphold and preserve Nigeria’s democracy since Buhari will be the last military President in Nigeria.” Political Class Need Not To Fight To Get Things Done An Osogbo, Osun State-based social critic and legal practitioner, stated: “On whether the 9th National Assembly will be rubber stamp because candidates of the ruling party have emerged as Senate President and Speaker of House of Representatives, faulted the argument that if ruling party becomes Senate President and Speaker, they would be rubber stamp assembly. He argued that ordinarily, the ruling party with majority members in the Assembly ought to produce its leadership, adding that that will not make them to be rubber stamp. He said: “It is a bad politics to expect a party with minority members to become Senate President and Speaker of House of Representatives.” According to him, “the experience of Nigerians with 8th National Assembly was too bad and was one of the reasons for the poor performances of the administration when they could not sit down together to resolves issues. “Both the executive and legislative arms as well as judiciary are operating without recourse to one another, it is bad politics and not good for our nation that is just managing to develop.” According to him, “There is an adage that where two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. Most good laws and motions that were passed in the last minutes of the expiration of Saraki-led Senate ought to have been passed since, and government would have worked towards their implementation for the betterment of Nigerians, while those passed and not assented to by Mr. President were because the political leaders were not ready to work together because their differences. “In a democracy, the two arms ought to work together harmoniously to get things done in the interest of Nigerians. “We are in a developmental democracy, where political class need not to fight to get things done. We need understanding of all to grow and develop to next level. So, all hands must be on the deck to move this nation to the next level.”