Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI , speaks on the state of the nation, 20 years of democratic governance, President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration and affairs in the ruling party. Excerpts: How would you rate political parties in the last 20 years of Nigeria’s unbroken civilian administration? We have made some progress, no doubt as far as political parties are concerned; as far as they are internalising the basic tenets of democracy, respecting the rules of the majority, carrying out wide consultations and having the spirit of compromise and the rest of it. Yes, a lot of progress, but also a lot of setbacks. If one is to be strictly honest, last year or so, we have some setbacks. That is in the nature of things and democracy is a system of government that continues to grow, that continues to become second nature. It is a whole long process and for us, it hasn’t become second nature yet. We took a little backward step in the last one year because of the nature of the campaigns and the nature of internal democracy within the parties and the rest of it. They left a lot to be desired and as a result the courts have become major arbiters in the political process, both within the parties and in the electoral process, which is most unfortunate. It got to a situation, where a substantial number of cases were determined by the courts on who is a candidate and who is not, was there internal democracy or was there not. So, it was an unhappy situation, but that is the nature of democracy. We will get out of it and even this phase too shall pass. What should be done to institute internal democracy in political parties? Well, I think the basic problem we have all over is the godfather syndrome. Internal democracy simply means that if 10 people want to vie for an office, so be it and let the electorate decide, whether the electorate is party own or the national electorate. But, it is unacceptable when party leaders start deciding who is fit or who is not fit as well as displace persons with friends and other undesirable elements. The damage it does is that you are destroying the belief of the electorate in due process and it becomes more difficult to accept the result of elections the moment people start believing that the system will not be fair to them. But, if you allow the electorate to decide, you will find out that this going to court will begin to die down. But once you do otherwise, people will believe that they were not fairly treated and are bound to look for every manner of excuse to go to court. That alone opens up the judicial and political system to different levels of corruption. So, the damage is intense and I pray that our politicians will see the need for proper internal democracy and due process, and allow the people to decide on their leaders. How do you think that your party, APC can handle some of these things you raised? Well, I have been through that process, so I don’t want to say things that would make me look judgemental of my successor. But on what I have just said, if you genuinely, honestly and thoroughly allow the electorate to decide, it would reduce dramatically the problems that arise – disputations and the court processes that follow. What are those basic things you think were done wrong that needed to be addressed? If I have advice of that nature, I wouldn’t do it in the media; I will go to those I think can actualise my ideas and suggestions. It is not something that one pontificates about because one person doesn’t necessarily have the totality of wisdom in the matter. This is something that people would sit around the table, discuss and take decisions on various aspects of party affairs to maximize the good of the party. Many believe that the APC is built around President Muhammadu Buhari. How do you see APC in 2023, when he would be leaving office and in 20 years to come? First, let us survive today. Secondly, the future basically is in God’s hands. In spite of that, there is no reason why a party would not sit down and start planning and projecting for the future. The basic thing you need to do now is to do all those things that would put your party into a healthy political fighting mood. That is what it takes. You don’t tell me you have got people who would tickle the fancy of the electorate. We will get there. Thank God that there is time for us to settle down and the rebuilding process starts. We will be ready for 2023. As the national chairman, who brought the APC to power, would you sincerely say that your party has performed up to expectation? Let me say that the foundation that we took over from was worse than our pessimistic belief. So, given that background, I can say with all sense of responsibility that we have done well. Having said that, there is no question at all that in the last year of this administration, we were bedeviled by this issue of Fulani herdsmen and it now goes beyond that. There is a rash of kidnapping by all manners of people and for variety of reasons. I haven’t done any research, but to my mind, there are various reasons for these that have been advanced. Whether it is the collapse of regimes in North Africa, particularly Libya or the instability in some of our boarder nations or the religious differences or whether it is just hunger; the main fact that the thing has started and it now begins to attract all manner of copy cats. So, it now becomes a multi-dimensional problems, which l am sure will engage the urgent attention and would be on for the second burner item that would attract the President because it is an issue that has to be tackled and there is no choice in the matter at all. It has to be tackled head on and it has to be brought under control. What kind of ministers would you expect President Buhari to have in his second term? First, they must be people who believe in his vision because given the man we have as president. We need honest people who share his vision, his hopes and aspirations for this country and are ready to go all out honestly and diligently to work and bring about the kind of change he has planned for this country. He has adopted the Next Level, so it must be clear that we are going to move to the next level. The kind of faces that we would be looking forward to seeing are faces that when their names are mentioned, the public will say ‘thank God’ because they see hope, they see competence, they see honesty, they see passion, they see people who believe in a greater Nigeria; people who believe that we don’t have to be where we are and that things can be much, much better and things will be much, much better in this second term. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo recently spoke about plans to Fulanize and Islamise Nigeria. How would you look at Obasanjo’s disposition? I will say something l haven’t said to any media person or anybody before. When we were in exile in London and he was released, he came to London because his wife was based in London. We all met in his house, ate all the pot of soup available and discussed the fact that a message had been sent by the military to come and get him interested in contesting for the presidency. My advice then to him was: ‘Look, the nation was still in the woods. Two, the nation does not have an elder statesman that can speak and everybody listen and my advice was tempting as it was to be president, I will prefer you become that guiding force, that compass or beacon that would help guide future administrations.’ Well, as they say everything is now history. He went the other way and because of that we had a bit of some strain in our relationship. Thank God we are back as friends. I respect him a lot. Every nation needs men like the Peoples’ SAN – Chief Gani Fawhemi, Tai Solarin and others activists like them. What is happening is that because of Obasanjo’s status, his experience, his background, whatever he says becomes infinitely weighty and cannot be ignored. It may be dramatized, but he is addressing an issue that is with us. I just told you that this issue of so-called Fulani herdsmen and the copy cats that have followed it has to be addressed. So, the issue has to be addressed. I wouldn’t give it the kind of lslamization tag that he is giving to it. But there is no question at all that it calls for worry because these people exist virtually in every state of the federation and very soon it would lead to unpleasantness all over the country. So, the issue has to be addressed and I told you that as far as I am concerned, I am sure it would be one of the first priorities of the Next Level administration. Looking at the Supreme Court ruling on Zamfara State, which sacked all those who won the last general elections on the platform of APC, how did you feel when you received the news? It ruined my day because it is a totally self-inflicted wound on us. I don’t think we can dance around it. It was sad and very, very sad. I think that is the only thing I can say. It is irreversible and I am really sympathizing for the party in that state. I sympathize with the outgoing governor and a lot of my good friends in that state and they now have to wait, mobilize and work even more seriously within the next four years to be able to get that state back in 2023. I pray we get it back. 