Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Hon. Dennis Adikwuru is a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Imo State and Convener, Grassroots Employers for Ihedioha. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the 20 years of uninterrupted democracy in Nigeria, among other issues. Excerpt: How has Nigeria fared after 20 years of uninterrupted democracy? Nigeria, after 20 uninterrupted years of democracy has remained in democratic tutelage and the learning process has been quite slow. I do hope that very soon, we shall have a true democrat to the core to lead Nigeria out of the current mob we are experiencing. The worst thing happening to Nigeria’s democracy is the admixture of military rule in the democracy setting. I do not know why military men who have held Nigeria backward should resurface in civilian government. They simply retard democratic growth, highlight the abuse of rule of law and suppress democracy institutions. In summary, I am looking forward to the rejection of the men on khaki uniform in civilian government because they do not belong to democracy clime. Civilians should paddle the ship of democracy. Have Nigerian leaders and politicians learnt some lessons in these 20 years? I do not believe Nigerian leaders and politicians have learnt any lessons in the 20 years of this dispensation. Is it the lesson of ‘Familiocracy’ and absolute corruption we witnessed under Rochas Okorocha? Or is it the nepotism exhibited by President Buhari? Or, do we talk about the South West dynasty controlled by Bola Ahmed Tinubu? Can there be any lessons learnt by the APC/INEC mass rigging of the Presidential election? I rather expect social unrest if power corruption in politicians and leaders remain unabated. How do you see the nation’s rising debt profile? Nigeria’s debt profile is a worrisome one and I do not foresee any lease of life in the economy under the present administration. We do not have good managers of the economy and the man at the helm of affairs is neither here nor there. Economic growth has no future under Buhari administration. Do you think those states which had been owing salaries could pay the new N30,000 minimum wage? Nigeria’s minimum wage of N30, 000 remains one of the lowest in the world and in fact, the least among the oil producing countries. There is no state in the federation that cannot afford to pay the minimum wage. It is just to place the people first and above personal enrichment, wipe away corrupt practices and activate internal revenue drive, doing away with the so called revenue consultants. President Buhari recently canvassed for True Federalism as the best for Nigeria. What does this portend? President Buhari is neither ready for restructuring nor true federalism. What changes has he effected in bringing about true federalism or restructuring among the major stakeholders in the country? I am yet to see Buhari understanding the meaning of true federalism or restructuring and I will be delighted to see him drive true federalism or bring about restructuring in Nigeria. Do you think community policing would check banditry, kidnapping and killings across the country? Community policing cannot achieve much as far as criminals are given shelter in the communities and even community leaders and traditional themselves perpetuate crimes in their domains. There must be collaboration in achieving crime free society in Nigeria How do you see the purported presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, come 2023 election? In as much as Bola Tinubu has literally colonised the South West, the purported presidential ambition will end up a mirage except he declares the Oodua Republic. Tinubu has no pedigree in the South East and South South. He is seen in the North as an infidel and so the Northerners do not reckon with him. Tinubu has the option of joining in the agitation for the balkanisation of Nigeria, or go back to bed for a fresh dream but definitely not for Nigeria’s presidency. How do Mbaise people feel now that Emeka Ihedioha has become the Imo State governor? I must say here that Ihedioha’s emergence as Imo governor represents the yearning, the desire and the adoration of Imo citizens for a credible and responsive government which will rebuild the ruins of Okorocha’s disastrous government. As for Mbaise people, they take pride that the jinx so to say that an Mbaise man will not govern the state has been broken. Mbaise has collapsed into the larger Imo State. Ihedioha represents the entire 27 LGAs, 305 political wards and over 600 autonomous communities in Imo State. In the same vein, every other Imo citizen takes pride in the emergence of Ihedioha, the Mbaise man, as their governor. This is the true position of things in the state. What challenges would Ihedioha face as Imo governor? Okorocha’s post administration survey is a total decay, dilapidation and infrastructural decadence. Okorocha’s post governance leaves a great lot of abandoned, uncompleted and substandard projects already serving as criminal homes and death traps. You have a legion of unpaid bills starting from civil servants salaries, pension arrears, contractors’ fees and many unsettled financial obligations cumulating in over N250 billion debts. These ordinarily are enormous challenges for Governor Ihedioha. But, I must state here that the governor has swung into action. He has launched a major environmental cleanliness campaign, getting all heaps of refuges and wastes off the roads of Owerri, and restoring the closed up and littered roads to motorable state. Ihedioha is enjoying the support of the organised professional and Labour bodies who have assured him a strike free atmosphere. You can see that in solidarity with the Imo governor, the state branch of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) just called off their planned strike action. The governor has assured of creating enabling environment to genuine investors and this will open the gateway to a solid economy. Ihedioha will also apply his goodwill in attracting global and national industrial build up for the state and as well deploy his legislative disposition in attracting federal projects to the state. The governor has warned against any form of corruption in the system as it was a major canker worm which ate up the state treasury. I can tell you that Ihedioha has hit the ground and every sector is already vibrating. It is expected that the first 100 days of Ihedioha will give a shape of Imo state in rebuilding mode. What is your take on the recent demolition of the Akachi statue? I do not agree with the semantic of demolition. So also do I disagree with the assertion that the state government demolished the Okorocha’s spiritual status. In the first place, demolition can be said to be pulling down of a structure. Again, if a government decides to demolish any structure, it has the paraphernalia to carry it out. The governor, as the Chief Security Officer has the apparatus to carry out any demolition unencumbered. What I saw in the said demolition of the spiritual statue was an attempt by irate and aggrieved citizens to get what has now been revealed as a pure Islamic statue out of the state. There was intervention of security agencies which brought a halt in the demolition. The state government is not yet interested in demolishing whatever was erected with public funds. I wonder why Okorocha’s apologists have not raised alarm on the demolition of Zuma statues, Roads and those others which Imo youths took on. Ihedioha said the Government House, Owerri, where Okorocha had operated from for eight years, is an eyesore. How could this be explained? Government House, Owerri is undergoing chemical fumigation and cleansing as a result of the stinking state and health hazards. Close associates of the out-gone governor and his family know them as filthy, dirty and unhygienic. This is the story of the Government House of Imo State as Ihedioha met it. Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, while congratulating the new Imo SSG, said he is a Bayelsan and Niger Deltan. Could this be true? The newly appointed Secretary to State Government (SSG), Hon Uche Onyeagocha, is a native of Obinze in Owerri West LGA of the state. He has represented Owerri Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives. He was a leading governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), with the largest followership and structure. Onyeaguocha’s support for Ihedioha’s candidature of PDP led to the demise of APGA and the formation of New APGA with virtually all other APGA governorship aspirants entrain. It will amount to a mere gossip occasioned by envy of Onyeaguocha’s rising profile for anybody to tag him as a Bayelsa citizen. I am not here to respond on Onyeaguocha’s behalf, but to throw a light on the man so loved by his fellow Imo citizens and whose love for the state made him collapse support for Ihedioha and PDP. I will rather advise that the rumour mongers be ignored because Onyeagocha has a bigger task in the Rebuild Imo Project.