Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Yenagoa – Ahead of the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State, Governor Seriake Dickson has warned the people not to make the mistake of allowing “cultists and ungodly politicians” to occupy Government House after his tenure in February 2020. Asking the people to reject such politicians, Dickson urged them to also ensure that politicians with devilish habits should not use political appointments as a bait to lure the persons into the destructive fold of cultism and that they should not have access to political control in the state. A statement by his Special Adviser, Media Relations, Fidelis Soriwei, quoted the governor as having made the comment during the monthly praise night for May in Yenagoa on Thursday night. He called on the people to be vigilant and supportive to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and to await the discovery of the leader God had picked to govern the state after him. He stressed that the person anointed to lead the state was known to God and waiting to be discovered. He predicted that the contest of the governorship of Bayelsa would be characterised by a lot of trials, temptations and fierceness because of the high price of the state. Dickson said, “You should be vigilant and support your party and government. Pray for God’s direction. This earth has no power to give what God has not given. The leader God has anointed is there. He is waiting to be discovered. “There will be a lot of trials, temptation because the price of Bayelsa is very high. Don’t be surprised if the conflict gets fierce. It will get hot before it gets cold. From 2012 to date, they did a lot of things, but we are still standing and counting. “With your support, no man or woman who subscribes to evil, who does not know what is good, what is godly, shall ascend the throne, no one who initiates our children to cultism will be there. “No cultist will ascend the seat of Bayelsa, none who will initiate our sons or brothers and sisters before they get one patronage or appointments or the other. And that is happening in some states, but it will not be our portion in Jesus name.” The governor also restated his call on the leadership of the ruling PDP to give between 20 to 30 percent of the councillorship positions as well as the Rural Development Areas to women and youths. He said that the women and the youths should be encouraged with political positions as a reward for their wonderful support for the party over the years. Dickson, who commended the men for accepting the proposal, added that the state would have the highest number of female councillors this year.