LAGOS – Super Falcons bounced back from their ongoing FIFA Women’s World Cup opening group game 3-0 loss to Norway last Saturday to beat South Korea 2-0 on Wednesday. The win gives the Nigerians Round of 16 lifeline, provided they at least get a draw against host country, France in their last group game on 17 June 2019. With 24 teams taking part in the tournament, the first two teams in each group plus the best four placed third teams will qualify for the knockout stage. As for South Korea, they still have a very slim chance of progressing out of the group, but will need to beat Norway in their next game and hope France beat Nigeria to stand a chance. Nigeria got the lead through an own goal in the 29th minute by Kim Doyeon and Asisat Oshoala’s 75th minute classic finish to double Nigeria’s lead. Falcons would have increased the tally but for poor marksmanship. Three minutes after their second, Oshoala again was on one-on-one with the Korean goalkeeper but tipped the ball too much for the goalkeeper to hold with ease. Falcons’ goalkeeper, Chiamaka Nnadozie, was excited over the win saying after the game, happy not to concede. The win gives us a lot of confidence and I believe this confidence will help us in our last group game at the weekend.” However, Coach Thomas Dennerby, attributes the win to the team’s tactical discipline, noting that such display against France on Monday would earn the team at least a point. “Today (Yesterday) our discipline was better than against Norway – no mistakes at all,” adding, “If we can be as compact as we were today, don’t let teams overplay us in midfield and find passes through, we know we’ll get opportunities for players like Asisat. “The players followed our match plan and that’s all you can really ask. Now we go to play France, a really good team. If we can come out with a point everyone would be extremely happy. But you can’t just go to defend – you need to know what to do when you win the ball back. And hopefully we can have a little bit of success.” Ann Odong, a journalist covering the tournament for FIFA describes the win as a deserved win. “They kept their concentration in defence, worked hard in the midfield and finished off their chances in attack. Key points and key goals have given them a chance to advance from the group stage for the first time since 1999.”