Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Residents and indigenes of Eket Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State have expressed their concern over the alleged abandonment of ExxonMobil airstrip by the oil firm. Until recently, the airstrip popularly known as Mobil Airstrip, was the only aviation facility which catered for not only Mobil but also the state government’s aviation needs. But the facility appears to have been abandoned as the oil company now prefers to patronise Victor Attah International Airport in the outskirts of Uyo to ferry its staff offshore. Mr Assam Abia, a resident of Okopidi, where the airstrip is located, lamented the inconveniences caused by ExxonMobil to their staff, disclosing that the airstrip seized to function almost a year ago. He said that all the flights and choppers used by ExxonMobil staff now take off from Victor Attah International Airport which is located far away from Eket LGA. “I think ExxonMobil is trying to register their grievances over incessant blocking of roads by the youths of the core communities,” he alleged. Abia, however, said that the closure of the airstrip had caused economic backwardness to the core communities in Akwa Ibom. “When the airstrip was functional, petty traders used to do businesses with the staff before they boarded the aircraft, but now, everything thing is at a standstill. Abia said that the staff working at the airstrip were redundant because they go to work and close at night doing nothing. Mr Joseph Idiok, another resident of Eket, expressed dismay that the airstrip no long works in Eket, saying that his friends who worked offshore now travel to Victor Attah International Airport on their way offshore. He alleged that the airstrip abandonment had caused untold hardship to the people of Eket in particular and Akwa Ibom in general. Another native of the area, Mr Okon Utibe, expressed dissatisfaction with the management of the company, saying that no aircraft had landed or taken off in the past one year. But in his reaction, Mr Ogechukwu Udeagha, Manager, Media and Communications ExxonMobil said: “This decision is part of our overall efforts to improve our operational efficiency. Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited (MPN) is committed to working with our communities and other relevant stakeholders to agree on the best alternative use of the property.” “We operate in a way that contributes optimally to the economy of Akwa Ibom in general and Eket area in particular. We seek the understanding and cooperation of our communities as we make this transition,” Udeagha said.