Powered by RubiQube Ad Network An armed robber operating with a motorcycle popularly known as ‘okada’ in Ikorodu, Lagos State and a cable thief were on early Thursday morning arrested in different occasions by the officials of the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad (RRS) in different parts of the state. The robbery suspects, Sodiq Rasaq was arrested at Ijede Junction, Ikorodu when he was fleeing the scene of robbery. It was gathered that the suspect with his accomplice, Quadri Yusuph had robbed a ‘puff – puff’ seller around 5:00 a.m. and dispossessed him of N20, 000 before fleeing. The duo thereafter stabbed their victim with dagger twice on the hand when he challenged them. Police source said the suspects, having completed their mission fled the scene before their victim raised the alarm. According to the victim, Ogbodo Chibuike, “two young men on okada stopped me that they want to buy puff – puff around 5:00 a.m., because they were of my age, I didn’t suspect anything. They bought N200 puff- puff. “They were to pay me and they refused, I challenged them, they alighted and stabbed me, took my wallet containing N20, 000. “I had to call for help when they stabbed me with knife. I raised the alarm and it attracted people. Because they were on okada, those who came to my aid couldn’t chase them but some RRS officers on patrol chased and caught up with them at Ijede Junction and arrested one of them while his colleague escaped”. Police sources said the suspect during interrogation disclosed that it was their second round of operation for that day as they always operate in the early hours targeting workers and traders. Meanwhile, a cable thief, Peter Abah, 32, was arrested almost same time on Mobolaji Johnson Road, Ikeja with the cables concealed inside a wheelbarrow. The suspect, who was released from Badagry Prison in December, 2018 after being convicted for stealing Solar Panels, told the police that he and his two accomplices now at large, severed the cable from a newly installed transformer in the area. “Three of us are involved in the business and we do disconnect the cable from transformer before climbing  the electric pole to remove it. “I was just being unlucky. My colleagues’ names are Godwin and Zuma. We all connived to cut the upright cables, and we knew we could make something out of it to augment our salaries.” Speaking on the development, the Commissioner of Police, Muazu Zubairu directed that all the fleeing suspects be arrested and case transferred to SCID, Panti for further investigation.