Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – A Yoruba socio-cultural group, Oduduwa United People Association (ODUPA), has explained why it boycotted a rally tagged “O to ge” organised by Yoruba Koya Movement which held on June 12 in the South West part of the country. Its founder, Olawale Jimoh, said apart from the fact that the organisers of the rally didn’t furnish its group with adequate information and objective of the protest, the rally debased the democratic value attached to the date and also relegate its national significance value. He added that June 12 is not the best day to protest or agitate for any issue that affects Yoruba race, adding that such a rally would do injustice to the remembrance of the winner 1993 presidential election, the late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola. According to him,such a project cannot be effectively carried out without wider consultations with major stakeholders and traditional rulers in Yorubaland. “June 12 is not the best day to protest or agitate for any issue that affects Yoruba race due to holistic nature of the June 12, which is a epochal event. Besides, ODUPA cannot partner any individual or group without adequate information of the main objectives of any protest rally.June 12 is a reality of Nigerians but to make it only Yoruba affairs will not just downgrade the democratic value attached to it, but it will also relegate its national significance. “As far as ODUPA is concerned, Yoruba nation is bigger than any individual or group and we are of the opinion that such project cannot be effectively carried out without wider consultations across board, most importantly our Obas who are main custodians of culture among other major stakeholders whereby suggestions and unanimous accord will be jointly reached, but unfortunately reverse is the case,” he added.. He also spoke on the ongoing moves by Yoruba monarchs to forge unity among themselves,saying it was very easy for Yoruba monarch to be united and remain as one if only politics is totally separated from traditional system.He added that the unity of purpose can only manifest if our traditional institution become a legitimate independent body without the influence of the political class. “Though, it will be a serious task to achieve since politics is deeply involved from the time of colonial era till this present time that the State Governors are making every Dicks and Harry a King which also complicated the issue . It is very worrisome that the value and respect commanded by our obas is being downgraded on daily basis due to the personal selfish interest of Mr Governor who determined the choice of Oba to be emerged and crowned instead of the wishes of the community kingmakers to be duly followed through the consultation of the divine oracle. No doubt, our traditional institution should be redefined, redesigned and restructured unless we want to scrap our obaship system for pure democracy as obtained in France and other countries” He advocated the need for federal government to should recognize Isese day and declare it national holiday in honour of traditional worshippers in the country. “ It is essentially good, more so now that the western world are learning our art, culture, language, religion etc.We should not discard all what have just to embrace theirs, but we need to modify what we have into modern realities.Above all, we should separate sacrifice making to gods from our real cultural life,”he added On the controversies between traditional worshipers and Christian that Esu and Satan is the same,he said the Bible interpreters misrepresented Esu for Satan. “ I have said repeatedly and emphatically that Esu is not the same thing as Satan. In as much as I don’t want to apportion blame; it was a great error from the translator(s) of English Bible to Yoruba language. The gross mistake came because the translator(s) could not get a replica name for Satan in Yoruba,” he said Yoruba language is said to be going into extinction largely due to the influence of pop culture now. How best do you think we can preserve the language against the danger of extinction?. On how to save Yoruba language from going into extinction, he said the solution is that parents should show more interest in speaking Yoruba language, children should be motivated to learn reading, writing and speaking the language, religious bodies should be encouraged to worship in local language, while the government at all level will complement it by compelling continuous usage of the language in our trading, education, religion, films and other day to day activities. Olawale,who said his association is fully prepared as vanguard voice of the people to champion the affair of the Yoruba in the south-west region and other areas in Nigeria, Africa and in Diaspora,said his members are being empowered economically despite its limited funds. He added that the empowerment is self help programme,adding that the success of it has imparted positively in peoples life in terms of motivation talk, encouragement/counseling, job creation on self reliance and small scale entrepreneurship. “One of our greatest challenges is how to engage people in various meaningful activities so as to curb the menace of criminal acts in our society. An idle mind is a devil’s workshop; there is no better way to reduce crime into minimal rate in our society than to be empowered with a job that can at least provide for their daily bread. We, therefore ,call on every meaningful individual, group, private and public organizations and other corporate bodies to partner with us so as to restore the dignity and pride of humanity,” he said.