The operatives of the Lagos State Task Force yesterday arraigned a bullion van driver for allegedly driving against traffic (One-way) before Magistrate Lateef Owolabi of the Lagos State Mobile Court sitting at Bolade, Oshodi, Lagos.
Olayinka Egbeyemi, Chief Superintendent of Police, who is the Chairman of the Agency, disclosed that the driver of the bullion van was apprehended by the enforcement team of the agency between Brown Street at the Cappa area of Oshodi.
The Chairman disclosed further that the driver of the bullion van with registration number HK 218 EKY one Bamidele Ezekiel who is a staff of Zenith Bank admitted to have driven against traffic in a statement he made to the agency.
Honestly speaking “I don’t know why some enlightened and educated people within our society just flagrantly disobey laws made to regulate free flow of traffic on our roads without any regard to other road users”
“It is imperative to urgently re-orientate these bullion van drivers on the need to abide by all traffic regulations and stop the habit of driving against traffic” he noted.
He confirmed that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police CP Zubairu Muazu has directed that the arrested bullion van driver be immediately charge to court for prosecution to deter others from such illegitimate act.
The driver of the bullion van Bamidele Ezekiel, 46, said he committed the offence with one Mr. Kehinde Babalola a Manager of Zenith Bulk Teller out of the curiosity to deliver money to its destination on time and that he never knew that he would be caught.
The driver during interrogation said “Yes I drove one-way and am appealing to the government to please tamper justice with mercy as I promised never to do such again in my life”
Meanwhile, the driver was charged before Magistrate Lateef Owolabi for driving against traffic, an action prohibited by law (one-way) punishable under Part (III) item 27 of the Transport Sector Law of Lagos State 2018.
The defendant admitted guilt when the charge was read to him, on asking him to affirm his plea of guilt he changed his guilty plea to not guilty.
A plea of not guilty was entered by the court against him while the case was adjourned to the 30th day of July, 2019 for commencement of trial.