Benin – Nduka Nwenwene, Zonal Commander, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, (NAPTIP), Benin zone on has declared that Edo and Delta States have the highest number of those trafficked out of the country.
Nwenwene made the declaration on Tuesday while addressing students of St. Maria Goretti, Benin City during an event put up by Re-educating Africans on the Risk and Dangers in Unplanned Journey Abroad, RARDUJA in Benin.
“In 2011, NAPTIP brought back 104 girls from Mali. Out of that 104 girls, 60 of them came from Edo State, 30 came from Delta state.
“With this you discover that the two states, Edo and Delta, have taken 90, leaving only 14 for the rest states in the country and it should not be so because Edo and Delta states are not the poorest states. They are not the poorest states at all”, he stressed.
Nwenwene also noted that though the government has failed in their parts to provide jobs for her citizens, it still not enough reason for people to embark on such journey.
He called on Nigerians to report any cases of human trafficking to NAPTIP adding the battle can only be won collectively.
On his part, speaking on the theme: “Say No to Unplanned Journey Abroad”, the coordinator, RARDUJA International, Ambassador Eddy Duru, said the dangers in embarking on unplanned journey to Europe country are enormous and such should not be encouraged in any schools either by the teachers or the proprietors.
“Our quest is to continue to re-educate our people, Nigerians on the risks and all the hazards that are associated with this traveling through the sea and the desert especially unplanned even through the air. Many who are there right now are frustrated “, he said.
Duru said there are a lot to achieve in Nigeria but what Nigerians needed is the ability to look inward and find something meaningful to do adding that while some Nigerians were leaving the country for the fear of Boko Haram in the recent past, other foreigners were trooping into the country for businesses just because they were able to see what others could not see in the country.
He said RARDUJA was not against anybody traveling abroad but should anyone wants to travel, he should follow due process to avoid the risk of losing one’s life in a bid to travel out of the country.