Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Kazeem Hamzat, Coordinator of the Gani Adams-led members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) in Agbado-Oke Odo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos State, has dissociated himself and all members of his group from the protracted crisis in the Agbado-Oke Odo LCDA and its environs. In a statement signed by Hamzat, said the issue is purely between members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and the Tricycle Owners’ Association of Nigeria (TOWAN) in the area, adding that OPC is strictly a socio-cultural group that promotes the interest of the Yoruba race. “As the coordinator of the Aare Gani Adams-led members of the Oodua People’s Congress in Agbado Oke-Odo, in Lagos State, I want to correct the impression that our group is behind the crisis in the area. This is far from the truth. “We are a peace-loving group and anybody that really understands how we operate as a group will definitely agree with me that we have been not involved in any crisis. “What happened at Agbado Oke-Odo recently was a show of shame being perpetrated by some members of the NURTW, and another faction of the tricycle owners’ association. The police are still investigating and I am sure by the time they are through with their findings, we shall get a clearer picture of what transpired between the two unions,” he said. The OPC chieftain, however, charged all members of the group to shun violence, stressing that the leader of the group and the Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, is an advocate of peace, and has always preached peace and unity both in Nigeria and beyond. He also flayed the activities of the union, saying the safety of residents of the area is paramount. “It is the duty of the police to ensure that there is peace in the area. As citizens, there is need for us to also support the police in ensuring that our community is safe for residents. “The prolonged crisis in Agbado Oke-Odo should be put to rest and we must cooperate with the police to ensure that peace reigns and perpetrators of these dastardly acts are brought to book”, Hamzat added.