Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Super Eagles’ final preparations for the 32nd Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt begin on Sunday, when invited players, alongside the technical crew and administrative staff, will start arriving in Asaba, the Delta State capital. On Sunday, the Eagles’ backroom staff are expected to be complete, with some players also expected, while the larger population of the playing body should hit town on Monday. This first phase of camping will also take in a friendly match, against equally Egypt-bound Warriors of Zimbabwe, at the Stephen Keshi Stadium on Saturday, 8th June. Players and officials will travel to the Egyptian city of Ismailia the following day aboard a chartered flight, where they will stay at the Hotel Mercure and spend a full week perfecting tactics and strategies, before taking on Africa’s number one –ranked team Senegal in another friendly in Ismailia. On 17th January, the three –time champions will travel to Alexandria – venue of their Group B matches against Burundi, Guinea and Madagascar. Technical Adviser Gernot Rohr had invited 25 players to the camp, with six other players – among them three home –based professionals – on standby. Meanwhile, Home-Based Eagles will play Togo in the 2019 WAFU Cup of Nations taking place in Thies, Senegal from 28th September to 13th October. The new format means a first round straight knockout, with the winners proceeding to challenge for the trophy while the losers go on to contest for the Plate. The Eagles B, who lost to host nation Ghana in the final of the last edition in September 2017, will battle Togo’s Sparrow Hawks on 29th September. Matches will then proceed in the same knockout format until the winner emerges on 13th October. Organizers were compelled to invite North African nation, Morocco as a result of the subsisting FIFA ban that bars Sierra Leone from partaking in international football. Hosts Senegal will open the WAFU Cup of Nations finals against Guinea Bissau on 28th September.