OWERRI – The 8th House of the Imo House of Assembly has raised an eyebrow over alleged N460,630 million said to have been appropriated by the former Speaker, Rt. Hon. Acho Ihim, within his three years and 11 months tenure. This followed the report of an ad-hoc committee set up by the incumbent Speaker, Rt. Hon. Chinedu Ofor (Onuimo State constituency), to look into the account of the House, in accordance with the motion raised by the member for Oru East, Nkenna Nzeruo. The committee sat, according to the report read by the Speaker, and in the course of its investigation invited the Director of Accounts of the House, who appeared with the banks statements and it was observed that the former Speaker, Ihim allegedly spent N5 million on publicity, N1,300,000 in announcements, N3 million in local transport and other things, amounting to N460,630 million in 47 months. Meanwhile a group, Imo Dynamic Forum, has passed a vote of no confidence on the lawmakers. Jude Opara, co-ordinator of the group, who spoke to newsmen, described their act as abuse of law, pointing out that no law authorised them to sack, suspend or dissolve elected chairmen and councillors. Opara regretted that the House took the resolution without the mace, its authority, noting that they acted like people under an influence as the kind of resolution was questionable. Opara described the Speaker as an ingrate, explaining how former Governor Rochas Okorocha brought him back from America in 2011 and made him SSA Media, Deputy Chief of Staff, Commissioner respectively at different times and later supported him to go for the House of Assembly election in 2015 in spite of his unpopularity in Onuimo Local Government. He stressed that resolutions do not carry weight, but bills passed into law, adding that they should do and enjoy whatever was their motivation and then wait for the judgment of history and posterity. He therefore challenged the lawmakers to show the people in their various constituencies their constituency projects, rather than involving themselves in acts that would cause problem in the state.