Powered by RubiQube Ad Network On June 12, 1993, Nigeria held what many believe was the freest and fairest election, supervised by General Ibrahim Babangida’s appointed National Electoral Commission (NEC), headed by Prof. Humphrey Nwosu. This was after several years of military dictatorship. The 1993 presidential election conducted through Option A4, which was annulled by the military junta, however produced an “acclaimed” winner in the person of Chief Moshood Kolawole Abiola, a business mogul turned politician. However, buoyed by the popular support and with the backing of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), Abiola was determined to regain his “stolen” mandate, but died in detention in the process. This was as one of his wives, Kudirat, who was championing the cause of his then detained husband, was also assassinated. But, following pressure by the civil society, Babangida decided to ‘step aside’ and the junta hurriedly handed over to the Interim National Government (ING) headed by Ernest Shonekan, one of nation’s best boardroom czars. The ING was shortlived as Genral Sani Abacha struck and brought back the military. On his death, Genera Abubakar Mohammed, took over. But, he was not determined to clung to power as he bowed to the popular demand for civil rule by handing over to former President Olusegun Obasanjo, a retired Army General and ex-Military Head of State, on May 29, 1999. Obaranjo’s emergence ushered in the Fourth Republic, which has so far enjoyed 20 years of uninterrupted democracy. Since then, May 29 was regarded as the nation’s democracy day, during which elected presidents, beginning from Obasanjo, took their Oath of Office and Oath of Allegiance at their inauguration. However, Nigerians had been clamouring for the recognition of June 12 as the nation’s democracy day. States in the South West geo-political zone, the theatre of action for the restoration of Abiola’s stolen mandate had continued to observe June 12 as democracy day. Following persistent pressure, President Muhammadu Buhari last year officially declared June 12 as the democracy day, even as he proclaimed the late Chief Abiola the winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election with the national award of the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR). With this,it was not a surprise when the Federal Government this year ruled that May 29 will only be for presidential inauguration, while June 12, beginning from this year will be officially celebrated as the Democracy Day and like May 29, observed as a public holiday. But, the question a cross section of Nigerians have been asking is: How relevant is June 12 in Nigeria’s political history? June 12 Very Relevant, Ended Ethnic Politics – GDPB Stalwart Nnejiakolam Obimechina Nwakauba, Secretary, Grand Democratic Party of Nigeria (GDPN), Owerri Municipal, Imo State, stated: “June 12 is very much relevant and historic in our political history. It was a day Nigerians resolved to do away with the nagging problem of ethnic and tribal politics. “Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo, Efik, Kanuri, Fulani, Nupe, all jettisoned their religious, tribal and ethnic colourations and voted for somebody from the  South West as president.  You know that ethnic politics was the major bane of the First and Second Republics. But, June 12 1993 put a stop to it.” June 12 Not Most Important Part Of Nigeria’s History – Women Leader Mrs. Esther Nwamaka Onukwufor, Women Leader, Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP) Obowo LGA, Imo State, opined: “June 12 1993 has come and gone, but we are still celebrating it. It has become part of our political history. But, it is not the most important part of our history as a nation. “Murtala Mohammed was assassinated on Friday February 13, 1976. Gen. Aguiyi Ironsi was assassinated in 1966, likewise Tafawa Balewa and Ahmadu Bello. Chief Obafemi Awolowo died in 1987. Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, the Great Zik of Africa, died in 1996, Dr. Michael Okpara died in 1984. Why do we not celebrate the days of the death of these great Nigerians instead of June 12?” There Is Nothing Spectacular About June 12 – Political Scientist Abel Iwegbu, a political scientist, said: “I don’t see anything spectacular about this June 12 and government changing it to democracy day, but simply to honour Abiola and perhaps get votes from the family. As far as I am concerned, June 12 is not relevant in Nigeria’s political history, or has no place in Nigeria’s political history. “Agreed that the acclaimed winner of the June 12 election, Bashorun MKO Abiola, died in the struggle to reclaim his mandate, but was he the only one that died such death in Nigeria? What did we do for the dates when Tafawa Balewa died? Or, is he not a victim of political upheaval? “I think we are very idle and have nothing doing than waste time to non-issues. Again, have we done anything to the people that created the scene that led to the death of Abiola? Those are the things we should focus on, do something remarkable for the family, see how we can call to order architects of the political upheavals that claimed their lives and that would be it. “We must not necessarily alter democracy day just to please a single individual. I see changing democracy day from May 29 to June 12 as merely aimed at compensating the Yorubas by President Muhammadu Buhari government because of the vote he got from the South West and nothing more. “Many Nigerians have died fighting such cause and many more will still die. So, do we have to be setting aside days as national days in their honour? Why do we like celebrating irrelevancies as a people, leaving aside the main challenges facing us as a country?” June 12 Has Come To Stay – Don Dr. Raphael Omizu Aitanegbe, a Benin-based university lecturer, said: “June 12 has not only come to stay, but has finally secured a place in Nigeria political history. Now that the event known as June 12 is officially documented in the Nigeria political history, those who thought it would suffer the same fate as the fall of Babylon, should now have every reason to believe that truth cannot be swept under the carpet or erased. “I can assure you that more events will unfold in the nearest future in June. More people dead or alive will be honoured as time goes on. June 12 has come to stay and such episode will never happen again in Nigeria.” Democracy Entrenched On June 12 – Social Critic Akinwale Adegboye, an Osogbo-based social critic, maintained that June 12 is relevant in NIgeria’s political history because it was a day democracy was entrenched in the country. According to him, June 12 remains a reference point for the enthronement of the democracy in the country. “It was a day foundation for the current democracy was laid and has since not broken. It was a day sacrifice for democracy was made with blood of certain people. So, such a day cannot just be pushed away.” It Should Be Called MKO Abiola Day, Not Democracy Day – CACOL Boss Comrade Debo Adenira, Executive Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), said: “The hand over date should remain May 29. We are celebrating democracy on June 12. May 29 is just a normal thing because it has been manipulated to be so. No electoral officer should stay longer. The official handover can be done. In some places, handover can be done before May 29. “However, some of us have reservations on June 12. We should have called it MKO Abiola Day. June 12 is to dignify Ibrahim Babaginda (IBB), who created political parties and give them ideologies instead of allowing the people to determine what they wanted. But, political offices were built where he liked and not where they have people. “That Humphrey Nwosu could not have summoned courage to declare the winner of the election made it impossible for us not to have a holistic record on the election. Even the Option A4 was not democratic. That election might have been peaceful, but not fair. Other political parties and politicians were barred. People had no free choice. “Abiola rekindled the hope of the people and fought on the side of the people. He campaigned for reparation, was Pillar of Sports in Africa, non-discriminatory. He allowed his wealth to circulate in every part of the country. “He could have been immortalised by calling that day MKO Abiola Day. There is no democracy day. But, it is good because Abiola was consistent participant and his declaration led to his death and the death of his wife. This qualified the day to be named MKO Abiola Day. “Babangida destroyed the people’s choice. No money should be wasted on May 29. As for states, they can celebrate on May 29. The concept f June 12 is a federal thing. The states can celebrate democracy any day they like, but for reasons of unanimity.”