Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Lagos – The decision on Friday by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to bar the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) of Oando Plc, Mr. Wale Tinubu and the Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr. Omamofe Boyo, from being directors of public companies for a period of five years have been applauded by shareholders in the country. Wale Tinubu, who co-founded Oando in 1994, is Nigeria’s highest earning CEO in the country at N585 million per annum. SEC, had stated in statement on Friday, said it has concluded investigation of Oando Plc and directed among others the resignation of the affected board members, and also barred the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) and the Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer (DGCEO) of Oando Plc from being directors of public companies for a period of five years. The SEC also directed the convening of an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting on or before July 1, 2019, to appoint new directors. These among others the SEC stated, are part of measures to address identified violations in the company. Shareholder-activist, Boniface Okezie, who is also the National Coordinator, Pragmatic Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN), said the decision by SEC was a welcome one because the SEC must have relied on the recommendation of the forensic auditing earlier ordered on the case. His words: “I am sure that SEC was acting on the forensic audit given to them, for me I don’t have problem with that. For me, Wale has stayed longer than usual as CEO of Oando and I expected him to have left many years ago. He has been the MD since 1994 when he co-founded the company. “There is no doubt that he has brought development to the country in the past but the events that led to the crisis in the company are very unfortunate. He should have allowed other people to come on board to manage the company. “There is nothing he can do to the decision of SEC because SEC is a regulator. He cannot appeal. He should just comply”. Another shareholder-activist, Adebayo Adeleke, former General Secretary, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), said shareholders will be interested in the publication of the forensic audit by SEC to be able to convince Nigerians that the decision was not a witch-hunt. “Shareholders will be happy to see and read the forensic report of a company that they bought at N32 which is now at N4.   We want them to at least publish the executive summary if the whole report will be too voluminous. “Nobody should foreclose the possibility of Wale Tinubu challenging the SEC decision”, Adeleke said. According to the SEC, “Following the receipt of two petitions by the Commission in 2017, investigations were conducted into the activities of Oando Plc (a company listed on the Nigerian and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges). “Certain infractions of Securities and other relevant laws were observed. The Commission further engaged Deloitte & Touche to conduct a Forensic Audit of the activities of Oando Plc. “The general public is hereby notified of the conclusion of the investigations of Oando Plc. The findings from the report revealed serious infractions such as false disclosures, market abuses, misstatements in financial statements, internal control failures, and corporate governance lapses stemming from poor board oversight, irregular approval of directors’ remuneration, unjustified disbursements to directors and management of the company, related party transactions not conducted at arm’s length, amongst others”. The SEC also directed the payment of monetary penalties by the company and affected individuals and directors, and refund of improperly disbursed remuneration by the affected Board members to the company. As required under Section 304 of the Investments and Securities Act, (ISA) 2007, the Commission said it would refer all issues with possible criminality to the appropriate criminal prosecuting authorities. In addition, the SEC stated that other aspects of the findings would be referred to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). Oando, in a statement made available to our correspondent and signed by the company’s Chief Compliant Officer and Company Secretary, Ayotola Jagun, said it reserves its rights to take all legal steps to protect its business and assets. “Oando is of the view that these alleged infractions and penalties are unsubstantiated, ultra vires, invalid and calculated to prejudice the business of the company. The company has not been given the opportunity to see, review and respond to the forensic audit report and so is unable to ascertain what findings (if any) were made in relation to the alleged infractions and defend itself accordingly before the SEC. “The company reserves its rights to take all legal steps to protect its business and assets whilst remaining committed to act in the best interests of all its shareholders,” Jagun said .