Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie There are so many rules and regulations; so many laws and constitutions in the world, but none of them is as powerful and as influential as the golden rules given by our Lord Jesus Christ in today’s gospel reading of Luke 6:27-38. These golden rules are not only meant to transform the lives of the individuals, they are also meant to transform the society. These rules are meant to promote peaceful co-existence in the society.  The ten golden rules include: Love Your Enemies: Love is not just the greatest commandment it is also the most influential and most transforming principle. Perfect love is not limited to friends and well-wishers. That is why our Lord Jesus Christ told his followers “I say to you that hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you.” The love of one’s enemy may be difficult and even unrealistic, but with God all things are possible. Love of one’s enemy is the best solution to hate speech, hate action and all forms of violence in the society. In fact, it is the only way forward! Bless And Do Not Curse: In the book of Genesis 12:3 the Lord God assured Abraham, saying, “I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you I will curse; and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.” In today’s gospel Jesus Christ told his followers, “Bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you.” The more we bless people the more blessing we receive. Do Not Retaliate: Retaliation is a barbaric action. Romans 12:17 declares “Do not retaliate with evil, regardless of the evil brought against you.” Jesus told his followers, “To him who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also; and from him who takes away your cloak do not withhold your coat as well.” Vengeance belongs to God. We are not expected to take laws into our hands. God will fight those who fight against you, so no need of retaliation. Be Generous: Generosity is love in action. It is the essence of love. A generous heart is a loving heart. “Give to everyone who begs from you; and of him who takes away your goods do not ask them again.” A generous hand does not grow empty. Generosity is a winning force. If you want to conquer the world, then be generous! Treat Others As You With To Be Treated: This is the heart of the golden rule. It is the most influential and most transforming principle on earth. Our Lord Jesus Christ told his followers, “As you wish that men would do to you, do so to them.” Imagine a world where people love and respect others as they want others to love and respect them. Imagine a world where people are treated with equal right and respect, a world where people are carried along irrespective of the religion, tribe and nationality. Such world will be another paradise on earth. In addition, the golden rules include doing no harm to other so as to receive no harm from others. And so, if you don’t want people to insult you, then you must not insult others. If you don’t want people to betray you, you must not betray others. If you don’t want people to destroy your reputation then you must not destroy other people’s reputation. If you don’t want people to cheat you then you must not cheat others. And if you don’t want people to assault you never you assault others. This is the only way We Can Co-Exist And Live In A Homonymous Society. Do Good And Lend: Our God is a good God! Everyone He created, according to the book of Genesis 1:31 is good. God wants us to be good as He is good. Jesus told his followers, “Do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return; and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High; for he is kind to the ungrateful and the selfish.” Kindness is the essence of goodness. A good person must be kind and generous. Be Merciful: Pope Francis defines mercy as a uniting force. According to him, “Nothing unites us to God more than an act of mercy, for it is by mercy that the Lord forgives our sins and gives us the grace to practice acts of mercy in his name,” Merciful is the principle of reconciliation. Without mercy there will be no reconciliation. Mercy is a unique attribute of God. The book of Exodus introduced God as a merciful God: “The LORD, the LORD, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, 7 keeping steadfast love for the thousandth generation, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, In today’s gospel our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful.” The easiest way to become like God is to be merciful. If you want to be powerful like God then you must be merciful like God. A merciful being is a powerful being. A heartless being is a powerless being. If you want God to be merciful to you then you must be merciful to others. Do Not Judge Or Condemn Others: The world has only one Judge, Jesus is his name. He is the judge of judges; the King and kings and the Lord of lords. He is a just God. Human beings are imperfect, especially in the judgment. The number of injustice we are experiencing in the world today is a clear indication that human beings are not the true judges. In most countries, like Nigeria, innocent people are often condemned while criminals are moving around freely without any charges against them. Considering human imperfections and their inability to execute justice accordingly, our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you will not be condemned” Child of God, the Lord has not and will never condemn you. You are the only one that can condemn yourself. How? you may ask?. Forgive And Be Forgiven: Forgiveness is a major attribute of God. Hence, “To sin is human but to forgive is divine.” Forgiveness is a liberating force. It is a major part of the Lord’s Prayer: “…forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us.” If you want to be forgiven then you must be ready to forgive. Our Lord Jesus Christ not only taught his followers the importance of forgiveness He also proved to them that forgiveness is the most powerful weapon. He actually conquered the satan through the power of forgiveness. Instead of cursing those who crucified him, he prayed for them, saying, “Father, forgive them; for they do not know what they are doing.” (Luke 23:34) This was the prayer that brought the kingdom of vengeance and retaliation to an end. With this prayer, the devil has lost the battle. The devil has no more power over the children of God. He cannot condemn any child of God. All the charges of the evil ones are hereby cancelled in Jesus name – Amen! Be Genrous: In his message for the 27th World Day of the Sick, Pope Francis urges believers to promote a culture of generosity. He urges everyone “at every level, to promote the culture of generosity and of gift, which is indispensable for overcoming the culture of profit and waste”. In today’s gospel, our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “Give, and it will be given to you; good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For the measure you give will be the measure you get back.”