Lagos – A Lagos-based technician, Mr Bello Abudu has told an Igando Customary Court how his wife of 12-years pushed him into fathering another child outside marriage due to her constant denial of sex and threat. Abudu, 42, who is a respondent in a divorce suit filed before the court by his wife Blessing, said, he was fond of accusing him of infidelity told the court that his wife pushed him into adultery. A 42-year-old technician, Mr Bello Abudu yesterday told a Customary Court sitting in Igando that his wife pushed him into adultery. While responding to the allegation,  Abudu whose wife, Blessing, sought a dissolution of their marriage, accusing him of infidelity told the court that his wife pushed him into adultery. “My wife always tell me that I cannot impregnate another woman and if I try to make love with another woman, my male organ will gum inside that woman that she had done something concerning my male organ. “I was afraid initially, but later I decided to try it to know if she is saying the truth. “But luckily, the girl I met got pregnant and had a baby, when my wife got to know she told me that the baby was not mine. “After some months, I decided to do it again to prove her wrong, the girl got pregnant again. “Since then Blessing made the house unbearable for me, she fight me regularly, arrested me with police and when I could no longer bear it, I packed out of the house.” The respondent said that his wife starves him of sex that she used to claim that sex gives her headache. He urged the court not to grant his wife’s wish for the dissolution of their marriage that he still love her. Mrs Blessing Abudu, had approached the court to dissolve her 12 years marriage over husband’s infidelity. “My husband is cheating on me, he got a girl pregnant on two occasions. “I have gone to several hospitals and herbal homes just to have another baby but my husband is busy making babies with another girl.” The 36-year- tailor accused her husband of denying her sex. “My husband refused to sleep with me despite the fact that I desire another baby. “He told me to look for another man to sleep with me  and vowed that he will not sleep with me again.” The embittered woman accused her husband of threatening her life. “Bello told me that I am eating poison in his house that I should pack out else he will kill me or made me to run mad. “The petitioner said that her husband lack care for her and the only child of the marriage. The mother of one begged the court to terminate the marriage that she is no longer interested. The president of the court, Mr Adeniyi Koledoye, urged the two parties to maintain peace and adjourned the case until July 25 for judgment.