Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Carthage Eagles of Tunisia were grouped alongside Egypt, Niger and Eswatini in Group J of the qualifiers. They defeated the Pharaohs of Egypt 1-0 and lost 2-3 in the return leg; defeated Eswatini both home and away 4-0; 2-0 and also beat Niger both home and away, 1-0, 2-1 to qualify for Egypt 2019. Both Tunisia, group winner and runners up, Egypt, thus qualified for the tournament. Tunisia plays three tough friendly games before the start of the 2019 African Nations Cup in Egypt. Tunisia’s first friendly match was against Iraq on June 7 at the Olympic Stadium in Rades and on Tuesday, June 11, the Tunisian team flies to Croatia to face the 2018 World Cup runners-up and finishes preparations against Burundi in Rades on June 17. Tunisia delegation will then fly to Suez City on June 19 to start their journey in 2019 African Nations Cup. Tunisia are in Group E with Angola, Mali and Mauritania. The Tunisian team starts off against Angola on June 24 in Suez. Tunisia’s national team have participated in three quadrennial major football competitions. It appeared in the end stages of five FIFA World Cups and 18 Africa Cup of Nations, and featured at four Olympic football tournaments. Nevertheless, they created history in that 1978 tournament in Argentina by becoming the first African side to win a World Cup match, beating Mexico 3–1. They also held defending champions West Germany to a goalless draw before bowing out. They have since qualified for three tournaments in succession, in 1998, 2002 and2006 before returning in the last edition held in Russia in 2018; however in spite of this rich record, Tunisia had never been able to progress out the group stage in any FIFA World Cup or Summer Olympics tournaments. Tunisia has long-standing football rivalries with North Africanteams: Egypt, Morocco and Algeria. In fact, the Tunisian team has always met with them, whether through friendly matches or World Cup qualifiers and the African Cup of Nations. Tunisia is one of the most successful African national teams in competitions, having won one African Cup of Nations, as tournament hosts in 2004. They have also been runners-up twice in 1965 as hosts and 1996 held in South Africa. In Egypt, the coach Alain Giresse side would be aiming to win the title again and make a name for themselves.