Barrister Cleric Ebikonbowei Alaowei, a human rights activist and a public affairs analyst, is the National President, Centre For Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (CHURAC). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on expectations from President Muhammadu Buhari and the new National Assembly. Excerpt: Almost one month after being sworn for his second, President Muhammadu Buhari is yet to appoint his ministers. What would you attribute this delay to?
Honestly, I don’t know what to say. I think Mr. President will not blame anybody if he repeats what he did in 2015. As a sitting President coming to serve his second term, the time is ripe for Buhari to present his ministerial list to the National Assembly. In 2015, he said he was looking for holy Nigerians that he could trust.
I believe that Buhari has all it takes to identify those trusted fellows in this second term since he is now at the centre of it. The earlier he constitutes his cabinet, the better for him. Many state governors have done that. President Buhari should not be the last of the persons sworn in on May 29 in the federation to constitute his Federal Executive Council members. Would you say that any of his first term ministers performed well to deserve reappointment?
I don’t have their performance indexes to know which one did well. I can only score them from the surface, which may not be the correct position. However, from my surface view of Buhari’s first term ministers, the Transport Minister, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, did well. But for some of his untoward political activities in Rivers State, I would have recommended him for reappointment. I think he deserves to go back.
Ibeh Kachukwu also deserved consideration for reappointment. At least, his altruistic overtures stabilised the once volatile Niger Delta region. The man displayed not only administrative excellence, but also political sagacity. Left with me, I would have recommended him for reappointment because he is a unifying factor that deserved to be in public office. What advice would you offer the President as he considers those to appoint ministers in hi new cabinet?
There is no doubt that the provision of the Constitution will be strictly adhere to in appointing ministers. While that is the case, Mr. President should place a square peg in a square hole, round pegs in round holes. He should not allow himself to be influenced by party interferences. If he wants to succeed as he is boasting he will, then he needs technocrats to pilot the affairs of the government.
I would suggest or rather advise that Mr. President should not attach more than one ministry to any of his potential ministers. Doing that will over labour the person, no matter how good he may be. The ministries of works, power and housing had that challenge in the first term of Buhari’s government. The power ministry alone was big enough for Babatunde Fashola to handle. I did not see the miracle Mr. President was expecting from an overstretched Fashola to perform when the minister had been given more than what he could swallow. What legislative agenda would you proffer for the new 9th National Assembly leadership and the lawmakers?
I expect them to be watchdogs to the executive excesses. As the representatives of the various constituencies across the country, they should know they are the voice of the common man on the street. The 8th Assembly displayed a level of legislative independence, which curtailed the excesses, whims and caprices of the executive arm. At least, they fought executive rascality to a standstill. Nigeria would have descended into a full-blown dictatorial enclave under Buhari if not legislative resistance.
The 9th Assembly should therefore carry out their duties for the ultimate good of Nigerians and not for the good of some whimsical power players. The laws they will be enacting should be for public good, public morality and public safety, while their oversight functions should be carried out not to please party or sectional interests. They are there to serve the country and thus, the interest of Nigerians should be their ultimate watchword. Would you say the Nigerian lawmakers are very effective in carrying out their oversight functions? What would you say are their challenges in this regard?
I will answer that question in affirmative. To a large extent, they’re effective in carrying out their oversight functions. Let me go down memory lane. The 4th National Assembly led by Sen. Ken Nnamani threw away the third term agenda of the then almighty President Olusegun Obasanjo. The same repeated itself in the 6th Assembly where the lawmakers stood on the side of Nigerians by rejecting the fuel subsidy removal under President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. Again, the 8th Assembly led by Dr. Bukola Saraki also displayed that political maturity and legislative independence. They did not only fought for the interest of Nigerians, they also fought for the separation of powers among the three arms of the government.
However, they are not without challenges. Chief among them is party and ethno-religious interests. The 8th Assembly would have saved this country from the electoral quagmire when Buhari repeatedly refused to sign the amended Electoral Bill into law. They could have easily vetoed the President’s assent had it not been for their party and religious interests.
Another challenge they have is their commitment to their constituencies. In spite of the jumbo salaries they have been receiving, they could not do much for their constituencies. Corruption remains a setback to political development in the country. Due to the way they emerged through the blessings of their parties and the Presidency, do you see the current National Assembly performing well, as a cross section of Nigerians feels that they will be a rubber stamp to the Executive?
I don’t think they will be rubber stamp to the executive. I believe in their legislative competence. Mind you, not only the ruling party constitutes two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. The leadership may have their say, but the membership, I believe, will have their way. Let us not give an unnecessary insinuation yet. Let us give them the benefit of doubt.
With our level of democratic maturity, I do not see the legislature easily being a subservient to the executive arm. The executive arm may try to colonise them, but I don’t see them being a rubber stamp to the former. In what ways would the opposition in this dispensation check excesses of the ruling party and government?
They should continue to checkmate the excesses of the ruling government. The opposition in the first term of Buhari’s administration held the government to account. We need that same opposition in this second term. Let them play their parts as viable opposition parties required in a democratic certain to contain any likely executive rascality.
While we will need them to constructively criticise the government’s inimical policies, the same should not be carried out to mischievously ensnare the government. They should engage the government with issue based political agenda and not smear campaign. What the APC did to the PDP when it was in opposition was not expected of opposition parties. That was not a criticism, but a political rebellion against the government of Jonathan. I will not recommend the present parties to toe the same line.