Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – Governors of the 36 states of the federation have said they are yet to take a definite position on creation of State Police system, even though President Muhammadu Buhari had earlier directed that a presidential committee on Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) reforms put modalities in place to implement it within the next three months. The governors, who met with the President under the auspices of Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF), however said their position on state police was based on the peculiarities of each state. The meeting held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Friday. Chairman of NGF and Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi told reporters that the meeting was called at the instance of the NGF to acquaint the President on security challenges affecting most states of the federation, especially issues of banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, terrorism among others. Responding to a question asked on whether state governors are set to be involved in state policing, Fayemi said, “the position of NGF on that is that we have not taken position yet because experiences vary. “There are governors and states where their experience does not necessarily learn itself to more evolved policing to the states. There are also states where there are agitations for it, there are governors who have the views that that will work better in such states. And of course there are the economic issues relating to that. So we have the capacity at the state level to fund state policing, those are all issues that will come to play when we get to the National Economic Council meeting that has been called, particularly because there is a committee that is looking into it after the submission of the report on SARS. So, we will take all of these together.” On the $1billion withdrawn from the Excess Crude Account to fund security challenges at various state levels, which details of expenditure is being kept secret, the NGF chairman also responded, saying, “it may seem like a huge amount of money and it is a huge amount of money but when you are dealing with security issues, where a Tucano jet cost more than $50 million and you are getting say 20, you know how much that is already.