Powered by RubiQube Ad Network – Governor Ihedioha said he cannot perform his official duty at the Government House – The Imo governor described the Government House as an eyesore – The governor also said his predecessor did not properly hand over to him Governor Emeka Ihedioha has said that he cannot do his work from Government House describing the place as an eyesore. Vanguard reports that the governor of Imo state spoke on Sunday, May 2 saying the state of the Government House makes it difficult for him to operate officially. Ihedioha claimed he does not have any document to know the current financial status of the state claiming the past governor, Rochas Okorocha did not properly hand-over to him. It was reported that it was for this reason that “Ihedioha was pushed to suspend transactions of every government ministry and department.” He said: “We have difficulties operating from Imo Government House now. But I told Imo people that we will start work and give no excuses. “We will give dividends of democracy irrespective of the status of the state of facilities I inherited from the outgone administration. “The government that ended was not prepared to handover or ready to receive us. I thank Imo people for receiving us and we shall serve the state with the fear of God.” Meanwhile, Ihedioha denied ordering the demolition of the Akachi tower, which was the monument built by his predecessor, Okorocha. The demolition of the towers is coming barely 24 hours after Ihedioha was sworn into office on Wednesday, May 29, The Nation reports. Many indigenes of the state have highly criticized the action, saying that the towers were built by public funds and as such should not be destroyed to get back at the previous administration. It should be noted that the Akachi tower, which is one of the tourist attractions in the state, was being pulled down as at the time of writing this. The tower was built on a reclaimed dumpsite that was abandoned by the previous government before’s Okorocha’s administration.