Some Nigerians have identified Ireland as a golf destination and are weighing up opportunities towards experiencing good golf in the European country. This is predicated on the rich historical heritage of golf in Ireland as it enjoys an envious priority among other sports in Ireland; records also proves that golf continues to enjoy a healthy patronage, rating fourth in the Top Ten Most Popular Sporting Activities in the last decade, just as Ireland rates among countries with the most golf courses in the world. Inversely, the lack of regular tournaments and developmental programmes arising from poor organsisation and death of sponsorship has been a big problem in the development of the game in Nigeria. Andrew Oche Odoh, Sunday Olapade, Gift Willy are some of Nigeria’s current best players, who have consistently decried the dearth of tournaments and sponsorship. While the trio has been pushing on through self-sponsorship within the Africa, their collective dream is moving to Europe for the best and Ireland is the preferred destination. This is sadder as Nigeria has a good population that has not been fully utilised in sports – not even in schools has the need for golf development been introduced till date; though, enough paper works exist without implementation. Also, the lack of facilities has further compounded the chances of taking the game to the grassroots, while the existing facilities are of private clubs; hence interested players don’t have the financial capacity to meet up with the demands of the game at the private grounds. Funning enough, the Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF), which is the umbrella body expected to lead the developmental process has been dormant since it came into being, as it has not been able to assert its mandate and the usefulness of its existence for the development of the game. Thus, stakeholders believe the Federation is a mere political body as it lacks the wherewithal to truly develop the sport. Successive boards of the Federation have often made promises to take the game to the public by establishing at least, driving range at public grounds, but all to no avail. Golf development to the Federation is simply assemblage of players to represent the country for international tournaments. In contrast, further insight into golf in Ireland reveals interestingly that membership in the Golfing Union of Ireland was at 166,419 and membership in the Irish Ladies Golf Union was 49,822, making them third and seventh in the Top Ten Sports by Club/Association Membership respectively. Golf ranks third in Euros spent on activities in Ireland by overseas travelers bringing 183 million in 2012. In the same year, golf contributed over 15 billion Euros to the total European economy. In 2007, Pádraig Harrington became the first golfer from Ireland to win The Open Championship, the oldest of the four Men’s major championships. That is an interesting development from a serious nation. Georgia Oboh, a Nigerian teenager who has made history winning an international tournament, the US Teens Open Championship in 2014 is a Manchester academy product in UK; she has recently teed off her professional career participating in European and South African Tours. It is hoped that Ireland will find it worthwhile to corroborate with Nigeria to help the teeming prospective and existing golf population benefit from the game in no distant time.