MAKURDI – Speculations are rife that the Benue State Government may have had foreknowledge of the establishment and allocation of land in the state for ‘Ruga’ settlements. Recently, the contractor handling the project for the settlements, ‘Clear sky broad band ventures limited’ commenced clearing of land at one of the sites located at Otobi, Otukpo Local Government Area (LGA) of the state. But when Saturday INDEPENDENT carried out a search on the contractor, we gathered that the contractor assigned to carry out the project is a communication company and has nothing to do with agriculture. Also Saturday INDEPENDENT reliably gathered that for introducing the establishment of Ruga settlements, during the Technical Session of the National Council on Agriculture summit, made up of Permanent Secretaries from all states of the Federation, Chairman of the session, Muhammadu Umar was asked to vacate his seat. Umar is also the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD). Saturday INDEPENDENT reliably gathered that when the matter was brought up by Umar during the session, it was resisted by members just as they called for his resignation as Permanent Secretary and Chair of the Technical session. It was further learnt that the Permanent Secretary had however told members that he simply informed the meeting about the settlements because the Federal Government had already taken a position on the issue and that no matter what happens, the government would implement the project. Saturday INDEPENDENT further learnt that, it was shortly after the meeting in April, that the State Director, FMARD in Benue State, Dr. Thompson Abi wrote Governor Samuel Ortom, intimating him about benefits of establishing the settlements in the state. In the letter to Governor Ortom, dated 17th May, 2019, Abi had also recommended to the governor the need to adopt the settlements as a model in Benue. But efforts to get Governor Ortom to comment on the letter as well as his role in arriving at the sites for the settlements proved abortive. Saturday INDEPENDENT made several attempts to get the governor to comment on the issue through his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Terver Akase, but he would neither pick calls nor respond to text messages sent to him. However, it was gathered that shortly after the letter from the FMARD to the Governor, Ortom had convened a stakeholder’s meeting comprising traditional rulers and other prominent sons and daughters of the state and they were of one voice on the matter that there was no going back on the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law 2017. But, the people of the state hinged their argument that Governor Ortom may have had a foreknowledge about the establishment of the settlements in the state based on the fact that the Land Use Act vests the power for allocation of land in the state on the governor. They argued that it was near impossible for the Federal Government to have accessed land for the settlements, if it had not been allocated to it by the state government. Despite, the allegations, Governor Ortom, has kept sealed lips over the matter. But, the state government had confirmed that the Federal government, through the FMARD had already commenced work on one of the sites in the state. Although, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Benue State, Mrs Helen Atom confirmed to Saturday INDEPENDENT that work has commenced on one of the sites in Otobi, Otukpo LGA of the state, she said government was not aware if the Federal government has opened up the other sites in Tarka and Ukum LGAs of the state. She also confirmed that even though, the Director FMARD, Dr. Thompson Abi was in her office to personally convey the message about the settlements to her, she explained that she had made it clear to him that the state was not favourably disposed to the idea of providing land for Ruga settlements in the state.