The recent record-smashing heat in parts of Europe is running smack into the continent’s peak tourist season, adding crowds of visitors to the sweltering mix as cities try to care for their most vulnerable residents. Parts of France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Poland, Switzerland and the Czech Republic have seen temperatures soar into the 90s and even past 100 degrees Fahrenheit — at least 20 to 30 degrees above normal. The extreme heat was expected to last into the weekend in some areas. France has closed schools and canceled tests. Germany put speed restrictions on some of its famed autobahns out of concerns over the heat’s effect on the road surfaces. Paris has opened its pools for extended hours and created temporary misting stations and designated cooling rooms, according to the city’s website. On its tourism site, the city offers a map of cool spots and lists of parks and waterfront options. For travelers in countries without widespread air-conditioning — or with so many outdoor attractions the trip is planned around them — the higher-than-normal temperatures mean an added risk of heat exhaustion. Mark Elliot, a storm specialist and on-camera meteorologist at the Weather Channel, says because places like Paris and Berlin typically have moderate weather this time of year, travelers may not be expecting a scorching June. “You have to schedule break times, you need to make sure you have much more water available than you think you need,” he says. Leslie Gannon, director of U.S. clinical operations at travel health medicine company Passport Health, says travelers should stay inside if possible, seeking out locations with air conditioning such as malls or museums. Clothes should be loose fitting and light in color, and strenuous exercise should be avoided altogether or limited to the early morning or late evening. And tourists should drink plenty — as long as what they’re drinking is water. “Avoid caffeine and alcohol, because those are things that tend to dehydrate you,” Gannon says. She recognized that guidance might be difficult for travelers who want to make the most out a trip to places known for their wine, beer and coffee. “You might have to alternate the wine and the water.”