Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Dr Makanjuola Akindele Owolabi is a retired military officer and a former gubernatorial aspirant in the 2018 Ekiti elections under the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC). In this interview with Juliet Oyoyo, he speaks on the security challenges in the security challenges in the country and how it can be tackled. Excerpts: You contested in the 2018 Ekiti State governorship primaries. The election has come and gone. What is your next step? I am happy you asked that question. But, first, like the current governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir Ahmed el-Rufai said “if Nigeria was a normal country and, having lived in Kaduna for 40 years, you should be contesting for the governorship office here in Kaduna State. Three of your children were born here and you have been paying taxes here for the past 40 years”. But, if you look at our constitution, Chapter 2 makes it clear that, where you live, you can claim it. Are you not worried by the security challenges we have in the country especially here in Kaduna, with your huge investments? I am not worried at all. As a matter of fact, I have spoken on the insecurity issue, extensively in several fora. I keep on reminding Nigerians that it is not because I am a retired senior military officer. But, from deep academic and intellectual study and research, the issues of insecurity can best be addressed from three platforms. That is, there are three areas that are causative or etiological. If you do not address those three things holistically, you cannot solve the problem. So, if you know those issues, it should not scare you, but should give you the impetus to want to contribute to solving the problem. I call these “The ADO Acronym Triangle”, not because Ado is the capital of my state, but for ease of remembrance. The first letter A, stands for Ability for Violence. When you don’t control the abilities for violence for which the military has constitutional responsibility, provided there is no mediocrity, nepotism or tribalism militating against its unity and loyalty to the sovereignty of the nation. Only the military, police and security forces; DSS, Police, NSCDC should have the abilities to check violence because they are the ones that will secure the country. So, any country that does not control, whether illegal people like Boko Haram or any other people or group’s access to arms or ability for violence is looking for trouble. That is the A. The letter D stands for “Desire”. Desire is when you do not take care of the desires for revenge. We are a country where there is no love; where people and even the Preachers are not preaching love. Love is critical. If you cannot forgive each other, we cannot have a country. Look at Rwanda! So, when you have people who are always having reprisal attacks, because they cannot live in peace and they also cannot forgive each other, because, where there is a desire for revenge, you can never sort out the security problems. This is the area where all of our leaders, politicians (Christians and Muslims), and our religious and traditional leaders need to know that when there is a place or room for desire to revenge anywhere, you are sowing the seed for a future insecurity problems. Lastly, we have the “O” which means “Opportunity” for injustice; opportunity or environment for injustice. When there are opportunities or an environment for injustice, there will always be violence because that is the nature of human beings. So, tackling the issues of insecurity goes beyond just buying guns and ammunition and this is again why people intellectually, must think outside the box and address these three pillars highlighted. This issue of insecurity has attracted many divergent views and opinions from stakeholders. As a retired senior military officer and a stakeholder, how do you think this issue can be addressed using the “ADO Triangle”? Like I have earlier stated, applying the “ADO” Insecurity Triangle or Acronym is very key: as the ‘ability and tools for violence’ must be addressed and managed professionally and holistically. In every nation, the Police along with the Military (when necessary) as well as other State Security and paramilitary forces, are the only ones that must be strategically and tactically capable, equipped and empowered to safeguard national sovereignty, peace, security, law and order of the society. Other illegal or illegitimate individuals or groups must be neutralized with superior and modern strategies, equipment or technologies. Moreover, these national forces and agencies must ensure safety and excellence of their performances based only on merit and patriotism, without any iota of tribalism, nepotism, corruption or mediocrity. The ‘desire’ for revenge’ is another pillar or foundation for societal insecurity by those involved. This is why all governments ensure an environment of love and forgiveness deliberately promoted by the political leaders who must avoid politics of exclusion, vindictiveness especially in victory. Furthermore, community, religious, traditional and even political leaders must be involved in preventing hatred, cheating or undue marginalization in the polity. Again, the ‘Opportunity or Environment of Injustice’ is the third foundational or etiological root of insecurity in any society or nation. This is because, any act or opportunity for and of injustice is a seed sown for future breakdown of societal peace and order. Many Nigerians have applauded and also, queried the President’s renewal of the tenure of Godwin Emefiele as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. What is your take on this? The President obviously knows more than all of us about Mr. Godwin Emefiele’s performance regarding Nigeria’s monetary policies and direction. The NASS has also screened him successfully and approved him for reappointment. I believe what is more important is not focusing only on the Governor but on the CBN organizational, structural and systemic restructuring for better performance. What passion do you have for venturing into politics? My passion is not selfish, but to provide the best services and dividends of democracy to Nigerians and my LGA in particular. I pray that most of the reasons that drove me into politics, for instance, the neglect of my people as well as the infrastructural deficits in my LGA (Gbonyin LGA) which as we speak, lacks portable water and electricity for over six years now. There is no government presence whatsoever. Even the whole Ekiti South Senatorial District for over the 22 years of the state’s creation, has been overlooked, bypassed severally and has never produced a governor in Ekiti State; what is the purpose of politics and governance if there is exclusion with no dividends of democracy for the people or even equity? So, you can see, it is not about me, but about my society that does not get the returns expected from modern democracy. My earnest prayer is that, the incumbent governor will have a large heart to pull everybody together for the sake of the State and Nigeria at large. My joy is that, I have a unique trajectory and I have been placed in a position, in the past four decades to know the real reasons why nations fail, being the same reasons why aircraft crash as well as even the same reasons why even hospitals fail. This is called Human Factors and that is what I have practiced while training all types of professionals and executives as a certified lecturer in this field of knowledge.