Powered by RubiQube Ad Network With only a few days to go before the start of the CAF Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), the Eagles of Mali are facing disqualification due to crisis that is undermining the football federation. FIFA has issued an ultimatum to all stakeholders. If the general meeting scheduled for Saturday, June 15 is sabotaged. Fémafoot, the Malian federation, already under the supervision of a standardization committee, will be suspended at FIFA level. While Malian football has been struggling to structure itself for two years, the General Assembly may not be able to approve the new statutes and the new organisation of current affairs proposed by the standardisation committee. The potential disqualification of Mali could lead to the disruption of the smooth running of Group E at the AFCON in Egypt. Three possibilities are provided for in the regulations. Angola, Mauritania and Tunisia would have to compete in a three-man group, or CAF could choose to draw the third from Mali’s group in qualifying, and it would then be Gabon. The third possibility would be favourable to Burkina Faso, which would qualify late, as the best third in the entire qualification phase. These assumptions must remain conditional for the supporters of Mali team that has not missed AFCON finals since 2006. Mali has never won the AFCON, however their best result at the tournament was runners-up – in 1972. Mali have qualified for the tournament 10 times in total, finishing as runners-up once, third twice, and fourth three times. Prior to 2008, each time Mali qualified, they reached the knockout stage having only qualified four times before then. Mali reached the 1972 AFCON final, but lost 3–2 to Congo. They failed to qualify for the finals again until 1994 when they reached the semifinals, an achievement repeated in 2002, 2004 and 2012. They played their first World Cup qualifier in the year 2000. As part of the CAF’s qualifiers for the 2002 World Cup, Mali lost in the preliminary round to Libya. Two years later, the country hosted the 2002 AFCON. In the 2010 AFCON, Mali made football headlines for coming back from losing 4–0 with 11 minutes left to level 4–4 with Angola. It is considered to be one of the best comebacks in recent memory, alongside Sweden’s famous comeback against Germany in a 2014 World Cup qualifier with a same score line. Meanwhile, caretaker coach, Mohamed Magassouba, has released his provisional squad for the AFCON which include: Goalkeepers: Djigui Diarra (Stade Malien), Ibrahim Mounkoro (TP Mazembe, DR Congo), Adama Keita (Djoliba) Defenders: Molla Wague (Nottingham Forest, England), Hamari Traore (Rennes, France), Falaye Sacko (Vitoria Guimaraes, Portugal), Massadio Haidara (Lens, France), Youssouf Kone (Lille, France), Mamadou Fofana (Metz, France), Boubacar Kiki Kouyate (Troyes, France) Midfielders: Diadie Samassekou (RB Salzbourg, Austria), Amadou Haidara (RB Leipzig, Germany), Cheick Doucoure (Lens, France), Lassana Coulibaly (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland), Adama Traore (Cercle Bruges, Belgium), Souleymane Diarra (Lens, France), Idrissa Traore (Shabab Al-Jabal, Libya) Forwards: Moussa Djenepo (Standard Liege, Belgium), Moussa Doumbia (Reims, France), Abdoulay Diaby (Sporting CP, Portugal), Moussa Marega (FC Porto, Portugal), Kalifa Coulibaly (Nantes, France), Hadi Sacko (Ankaragucu, Turkey), Adama Niane (Charleroi, Belgium), Adama Traore (Orleans, France), Sekou Koita (Wolfsberger AC, Austria). 