Powered by RubiQube Ad Network MAKURDI – The Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Makurdi has arraigned, a Lecturer of the Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Peter Adoga for allegedly converting a study grant awarded to him by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) to personal use. The suspect who was awarded the grant of the sum of N19, 756, 200 million through Nasarawa State University, Keffi in 2010 to study PhD in Cellular and Molecular Biology at Bangor University, United Kingdom, diverted the funds to his personal business. Adoga who was arraigned before Justice Simon Aboki of the Nasarawa State High Court sitting in Lafia, on Friday over alleged breach of trust however pleaded not guilty to the charge. The suspect was charged for dishonestly converting the sum; an offence punishable under Section 312 of Penal Code Laws. In a statement issued and signed by the Head, Public Affairs of the Zonal Office, Nwanyinma Okeanu on Friday explained that the Commission arraigned the suspect after receiving a petition against Adoga, a lecturer of the Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Natural and Applied Science of the State University for diverting the grant. She claimed that instead of embarking on the study of the PhD programme for which the sum was earmarked, the suspect converted the funds meant for the studies to personal use. Okeanu also observed that Adoga who obtained the grants in 2010, was yet to present proof of his study, but has rather been giving excuses. The EFCC spokesperson further stated that an analysis of the statement of account of the suspect, indicated that “the suspect diverted the funds for Business and sundry purposes other than the reason why the funds were given. “Eight years after the grant of the money to the suspect, he could not produce a PhD certificate from any University. His action may have and stands to disqualify genuine people who ought to have been considered in the nearest future for such grants.” The EFCC also pointed out that investigations reveal that the grant was paid into a United Bank for Africa account belonging to the suspect through the University’s Diamond Bank Account for the purpose of Academic staff training and development. The graft body however noted the suspect dishonestly converted the amount “to your own use and thereby committed a Criminal Breach of Trust contrary to Section 311 and punishable under section 312 of Penal Code Laws”. It was following the allegations against Adoga that the EFCC slammed a one count charge on the suspect and arraigned him in court. Justice Simon Aboki however granted the suspect bail in the sum of N2 milion naira, with two surties in like sum. The defendant is to also surrender his international passport to the registrar of the Court. Thereafter, the Judge adjourned the matter till July 10, 2019 for commencement of trial.