Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – One of the states where there was a change of baton is Imo, where Chief Emeka Ihedioha, former House of Representatives Deputy Speaker and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain took over from ex-Governor Rochas Okorocha, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain. Ihedioha came in at a time the average Imolite had lost confidence in Okorocha and the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. Okorocha, it would be recalled, had a running battle with a cross section of the church and the people and was seen as heading anti-people government. Speakership: What Does Buhari’s Silence Mean For Gbajabiamila? Okorocha, among other things, was accused of destroying a lot of businesses in the state by demolishing markets and shopping complexes in and around the state capital, Owerri. Okorocha, at a time built, monuments of foreign leaders while the people were hungry and there was dearth of infrastructure. Imo people could not forgive him for running a government made up of close family members to the exclusion of people from other areas. Workers’ salaries remained unpaid despite the Bail-outs and Paris Club refunds. Thus, there was a lot of disenchantment of Imo people against Okorocha, hence Imo people rejected the APC in the last election in favour of Ihedoha and PDP. Dennis Adikwuru, a PDP chieftain and a top member of Ihedioha’s campaign team, in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, described the new governor as a seasoned administrator, a shrewd politician, a humane and generous mind and a man with good heart. Adikwuru noted that widely travelled Ihedioha is knowledgeable in the techniques of growing the economy and that “His theme is the rebuilding of the state and Imo, having been liberated from the shackles of the inhuman government of Okorocha, I will only assure our people that the process of rebuilding Imo State has been kick-started by Ihedioha and this will begin to take shape after Ihedioha’s swearing in on May 29 this year. I believe Ihedioha knows the good things to do to turn the state around for good.” APC Tells Aggrieved Members To Join PDP Adikwuru said that Ihedioha’s government would be an all-inclusive one and would not discriminate among the components of the state, adding that the new government would be that of Imo people. He said: “Ihedioha will run an open, transparent and purposeful government. He will keep touch with industrialisation, hence, attraction of investors will be key to his development agenda. The civil servants, pensioners and all workers will receive their wages. “Local government administration will be left in the hands of the people and rural development will be accelerated. Educational institutions will be revived as well as the health institutions. Fallen state industries will be restored and generally, Imo treasures will be restored. I must tell you that Ihedioha’s victory has already restored life in the people and they look up to a bright future.” Adikwuru said: “My dream for Imo State under Ihedioha is a state of mind for the people of the state, a government of the entire people of the state, the extension of government and development to the people, an all participating government where lives and properties are secured, where the dignity of the human personality is made sacred. Imo State citizens shall be proud of being citizens of the state. Imo shall not be reduced to burial grounds and life will become meaningful to the people once again.” Sir Temple Ogueri Onyeukwu, an APC chieftain and former House of Representatives candidate for the Mbaitoli/Ikeduru Federal Constituency in Imo State, added: “Outside Whetheral, Douglas, Orlu, Bank and Okigwe roads, most other roads are virtually impassable and unmotorable. There are communities less than five kilometers off Owerri, with no motorable roads. Take Mbieri for example, it is less than five minutes drive from Owerri, but virtually all the roads are not motorable. Economic development is stagnated. Unemployment is highest in the community. It is simple logic that when there is rural transformation, there will be boom in economic activities, unemployment will reduce, crime rate will reduce and quality of life will be better. “I urge the incoming government to concentrate on rural transformation. All Imolites condemned the ‘China’ roads. I hope the incoming administration will use established road construction companies in the execution of its rural roads projects. Come to think about it, there is no local government in the state that cannot construct five kilometers of road every quarter from their allocations given the cost of construction of one kilometer of road even by the established road construction companies. They can achieve this, have enough money for salaries and other overheads. This is public knowledge. Rural transformation is the key.” What Ihedioha Must Do Differently In Imo