Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Benin – Prof. Lawrence Ikechukwu Ezemonye, Vice Chancellor, Igbinedion University, Okada, Edo State, at the weekend announced the admission of the university into the CISCO academy. Prof. Ezemonye, who made the announcement during the opening ceremony of a workshop organized for staff and students of the university on networking, described CISCO as a world-class IT industry that deals with the production of IT equipment and networking. The VC disclosed that Igbinedion University has created a smart campus that allows students to excel in knowledge-based driven IT and prepares them for the future. According to him, the essence of the workshop was to make the students acquire skills that would transform them as entrepreneurs. He said the interests of students were uppermost in the minds of the management, which is why the university ensures that these opportunities are made available for students to update themselves. The VC assured participants that history would not forget them as part of those that laid the foundation of the university. He urged them to take the training seriously, as people pay heavily to travel far to acquire this skill, but as a forward-looking university, opportunity was created here in Okada to make it more accessible to staff and students. While commending the generosity of the Chancellor, Dr. Gabriel Osawaru Igbinedion, the Vice Chancellor said the university was ready to always expose students to global competitions in the IT world, just as he disclosed that Igbinedion University was already working out modalities for the establishment of Cyber-Engineering Security as a course of study. In his presentation, the Director of ICT, Dr. Raphael Asibor, said that Igbinedion University was known as an IT-driven university in the sub-Saharan Africa. He revealed that participants at the workshop were made up of 60 staff and students of the institution. Also speaking, the representative of CISCO in South-South Nigeria, Daniel Ekpah, thanked the Vice Chancellor for the big privilege of bringing him to the great citadel of learning. He described the Vice Chancellor as a dynamic personality who could not be compared with any other Vice Chancellor in Nigeria. CISCO, he further said, has recorded more success at Igbinedion University than any other university where it has organized the training with up to 60 participants registered for the programme, adding that all the participants would be certified at the end of the training. He also noted that he had once paid N2 million each for some persons to travel to South Africa to acquire this skill, but the Vice Chancellor had brought it here free of charge.