Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Rt. Hon. Nick Eworo is a two-time Deputy Majority Leader, Benue State House of Assembly and a House of Representatives candidate for the Oju/Obi federal constituency in the 2019 election under the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he explains why he is at the election tribunal and speaks on appointment of local government caretaker committees. Excerpts: You have been at the tribunal after the 2019 general elections where you were one of the candidates for the Oju/Obi Federal Constituency election under the APC. What is your grouse? We went for an election into the Oju/Obi Federal Constituency. I am the candidate for APC. There was a candidate for PDP, APGA, SDP and so on. We had an election that was inconclusive. Some people claimed that Ogewu of APGA was the winner because they counted the votes in Oju and he scored 12,000 votes in Oju. Because the election results from Obi had not come and they didn’t know where the results were, then Ogewu said he must be declared. So, he forced the INEC official and according to the official statement, it was declared ‘under duress’ with only one local government result. This is not right. In Obi, the results could not be found for 48 hours. Our investigations revealed that the results were taken to Otukpo. A result for Obi Local Government taken to Otukpo and I heard that the reason for them running with the results from Obi to Otukpo was that they felt the security situation was not safe for them. The constituency headquarters is in Oju. The distance between Obarike-Ito and Oju is shorter than the distance between Obi and Otukpo. If it was not safe in Obi, why not go to Oju and finish your collation? That wasn’t done. Now, you went to Otukpo with the result and for 48 hours, you held on to the results and then you had only the agents of the PDP man with the results. We know that the results that came out were highly falsified and we had lots of violence with a lot of evidence; arms and ammunitions were recovered. The security agents also have those facts. So, I looked at the whole thing. The man who is claiming victory from the other side, which is Okwu, said he has 14,000 votes. Ogewu is claiming 12,000; I am on 11,000 without putting my hand into anything. Honestly, for me, I won the election from Obi. I can claim that much. But, my results had been changed to another person’s. So, my grouse for which I approached the tribunal is that no one, even if the election is inconclusive, has scored the number of votes that were standing out, which is the 18,000 votes. What does it mean? It means that even the Labour Party candidate with zero votes can still win the election. The election is still wide open; anybody who gets the 18,000 votes is the winner because none of us has reached 18,000 votes. Besides, if they are using duress in Oju and someone has run away with the results from Obi, then what is the punishment for the two people who were involved in such crime? If you don’t do that not just for me today, tomorrow, anybody can take law into his hands and claim to have won elections. Two, can anybody be claiming victory over the election with 18,000 votes standing outside? No. So, what exactly will the law do or what is the position of the law when these issues are involved? So, I am in the tribunal to seek interpretation of the situation and determine what exactly should be the outcome, and the way forward. I can’t even lay claim to victory. Those who are laying claim to victory are novices and naive. How can I claim victory when there are 18,000 votes standing outside? The only thing any of us can seek right now is the number you have scored. I am also telling them to allocate my votes to me rightfully. See what has happened and determine everybody’s scores and let’s know the way forward. Are we going to allow this evil to remain? Anybody can get up and say ‘declare me’. Anybody can run away with the results of elections and bring it back after 48 hours and you think it will be accepted. If not, what do you do in such a situation? Suppose you are not comfortable with the result from the tribunal, what will be your next line of action? I don’t want to preempt anything too. But, when I am seeking justice, I seek it to the last. That is why there is the court of first instance, in this case the tribunal, and the court of second instance, which is the appeal. So, if you are looking for justice, provision is made. If you are not happy with what happened here, what do you do next? But for now, I know and I am confident that I will get justice from tribunal. Could you react to speculations that you are planning to defect to PDP? We are in a political turmoil in Igede and rumours have been the order of the day. If for any reason I want to defect to PDP, I don’t know whether they are preempting my mind or I have called my supporters to speak with them or I have sat anywhere to grant interview on that issue. You should disregard the speculation. Discussing the issue will be a waste of time. I am seeking justice from the court and I will put everything I have into it to determine for tomorrow so that there will be sanity in the system. What is your take on the LG Caretaker Committees being set up by the state governors? The governors have become lords over states. That has been the bane of Nigerian democracy. When democracy was taking off, people were not cautious enough and allowed the section of the constitution that provides that there should be Joint Local and State Government Accounts as well as State Electoral Commission. This is the foundation of the trouble and why local people will continue to cry. Can the president sit in Abuja and say the states and the Federal Government should have joint accounts and decide what to give to the states? Won’t this country be burnt down? But, this is what the governors have been doing. I was disgusted when the Nigeria Governors Forum came together came together to elect chairman and their aim is to fight the NAFIU decision that money should go straight to local governments. It is now they know that the constitution should be explored. These people have no respect for the constitution when it comes to issues that matter to them. Suddenly they now know the importance of why constitution must be respected. Now, they are exploring that section of the constitution that says states should have control over local government funds. But, the problem here is that because it is in the constitution, the governors have something to hinge on to show why this should not be done. What is your stand on local government autonomy? On Local Government autonomy, I was the first person that spoke on the floor of the House of Assembly and we passed it, granting autonomy to the Local Government. This is the third or fourth attempt to make sure we free the Local Government system. The first happened during Obasanjo’s time. They got the autonomy. But, some governors bribed their Houses of Assembly and they rescind the decision. So, they could not get two-thirds majority on the issue. The second attempt came during Jonathan’s era. It was granted. Jonathan refused to give assent to the constitution amendment. It was towards the tail end of his administration. They lost it. The third time it came, a lot of them passed it. Yet, they couldn’t get two-thirds to pass it. So, the governors have something to hold on to. What are the disadvantages of governors putting together Local Government Caretaker Committees? The practice has shortchanged the people. Can the Federal Government decide to sack governors and put sole administrators? Governors decide who to put, when to put them and what to give them because it is convenient for them. That is the lifeline of every governor. It is a very bad practice, which has defrauded the people and make them 100 times poorer. The governors have no moral justification to hold on to Local Government funds? What favour are they doing for the Local Government system when they withhold money and cannot pay the Local Government staff ? I am against it completely. Caretaker committees are wrong and unconstitutional.