Lagos – April 17, 2019, Ajax Amsterdam caused one of the biggest UEFA Champions League upsets after dumping cup holders, Real Madrid, out of the most prestigious club competition following a 2-1 win over the Old Lady in Turin.
Juventus were highly favoured to go through after the Amsterdam giants forced them to a 1-1 draw in Amsterdam penultimate week, and Juventus responded well, dominated the early exchanges and capping that up with a 28th minute Cristiano Ronaldo goal.
But goals from Donny Van De Beek and Matthijs De Ligt gave Ajax a thoroughly deserved 3-2 aggregate success and stunned the hosts with the Portugal star fully in control of their attack.
Now, the Old Lady did not lose the match because they did not play the game and dominated. In fact, their attack recorded 12 on-target shots as against Ajax’s six. As a matter of fact, Juventus had overall 21 shots. But what made the difference and thrust Ajax to the semifinal of the Champions League was the decisiveness and accurateness of their forward line.
In what may look like the UEFA Champions League scenario, Nigeria have qualified for the round of 16 of the ongoing 2019 Africa Cup of Nations on the strength of their double wins over Burundi and Guinea, but it is instructive to note that the Super Eagles might have struggled and possibly not have had the second round ticket in their kitty if the two opponents were to be some of the formidable sides on the continent.
In the opening match of Group B of the Cup of Nations, Nigeria dominated the match in terms of possession and in virtually all other rating indices, but failed to find the back of the net.
Paul Onuachu, the FC Midtjylland of Denmark forward, could not bury some of the chances that came his way. The John Mikel Obi-led midfield provided a couple of opportunities, with Villarreal’s Samuel Chukwueze connecting through the flanks but the attack did not bite until the introduction of Odion Ighalo in the second half.
Ighalo and Ahmed Musa, who made inroads in the second half, provided the bite but the goals failed to come until the China based forward scored in the 77th minute to hand Nigeria all three points.
In fact, an analysts on the popular pay television station, SuperSport, noted that the result did not truly reflect the tactical differentials between the two sides, meaning that the major clog in the team on the night was the attack.
In the second game against the Syli Nationale of Guinea on Wednesday and just like the first game against Burundi, Super Eagles dominated possession and, unlike the first game, created better and glittering chances that could have put Nigeria ahead early in the game.
In fact, Ighalo, who started ahead of Onuachu, was the number one culprit as he bungled the opportunity to score from what was a well-executed process. Alex Iwobi picked him from the middle and he outran his marker to stay clear while Ahmed Musa was lurking unmarked in Guinean vital area.
Seeing that he had eventually been covered and his team mate unmarked, Ighalo would have passed the ball but his attempt to take the credit of scoring that goal led to a side-netting and the Eagles had to wait further for a goal.
However, the goal eventually came from an unlikely head as Kenneth Omeruo rose higher from a corner kick in the 73rd minute to nod home in a goal that eventually decided the game in Nigeria’s favour. After the goal and just like the first half, Nigerian forwards continued to fluff away chances.
While the poor goals scoring form of the Super Eagles has become a huge source of concern to Nigerians, some analysts have expressed less surprise at the development, saying that has been the bane of the Super Eagles recently.
For instance, even after qualifying for the 2018 World Cup, the Super Eagles have found goals scoring difficult. In the friendly games played which preceded the World Cup, Nigeria managed only three goals in five matches.
They scored in their 1-0 win over Poland, lost 1-2 to England and also drew 1-1 with Congo Democratic Republic. At the World Cup, the Super Eagles lost 0-2 to Croatia, defeated Iceland 2-0 and lost 1-2 to Argentina.
Apart from the qualifiers for the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations, where they recorded some goals scoring successes, they have struggled to score subsequently. They played a goalless with Uganda, beat Egypt 1-0 and also drew goalless with Zimbabwe heading into the Cup of Nations.
In their last five matches, they have only managed three goals and that certainly is a bad take-away from the forwards, who are primarily saddled with the responsibility of getting the goals if Nigeria must pull the chestnut out of fire in Egypt.
Compare that to other major title contenders in Egypt will reveal the obvious deficiency in the former African champions. Senegal, for example, have scored 20 goals in their last 12 matches, meaning an average of 1.43 percent goals in the matches under consideration. That is quite commendable and rightly put them as hot favourites to win the title in Egypt.
The host country, Egypt, have scored 23 goals in their last 13 games while Nigeria, in the last 13 games, have scored 16 goals.
That is not also a bad record but obviously abysmal given that the Super Eagles, with virtually all the players campaigning in Egypt starters in the club, were rated as one of the favourites, and rightly too, to win the competition.
Due to the poor scoring instinct in the team, opinions have pointed to the fact that Nigeria must beat Madagascar today in order to firmly finish as Group B leaders, thus douse the prospect of meeting Egypt. This was the view of Ike Shorunmu in an interview.
“They have done well and I congratulate the players for qualifying for the next round. But I am not very happy over their poor finishing in front of goals. They have dominated the matches played so far but goals-scoring seems to be the problem. Because of that, we must finish top of the group so that we will avoid the tough teams,” he said.
Nigeria will likely meet Uganda, Zimbabwe or the Democratic Republic of Congo in the round of 16 if they can beat or draw Madagascar today, and that, to a whole lot of the countrymen, is a fair fixture but it should be borne in mind that knockout stages of competitions are no respecter of names.
On several occasions during the first two matches in the competition, both Burundi and Guinea came close to opening scores in the games played and the next rounds, starting with the Round of 16, would obviously not be different against the supposedly lesser oppositions.
On this premise, Friday Ekpo, Nigeria’s former midfielder, has urged the players to ensure a watertight defence in the face of dearth of goals, noting that in the next round, it would not be business as usual as the loser would immediately head home.
“Yes they have not been able to get it right in terms of goals scoring but it is that way for some teams at some times. If we are winning with a one-goal margin and we did not lose, I think we will still be African champions at the end of the day. They must build on a strong midfield and defence in order to ward off attacks,” he said.
But Godwin Izilen, former coach of the Super Falcons, saw it differently. He noted, while speaking to an online medium, that the team must beef up the middle if they hope to do more than they have achieved.
“The performance of the players is not encouraging in the midfield. They need also to improve on their finishing; they need to get the goal early to consolidate.
“It will not augur well for the team in subsequent matches should he continue like this. The sole intention of the team is to win matches irrespective of who scores; the game is for eleven characters.
“The overall, our game against Guinea was a good one, tough but we can improve on it,” said İizilein.
Other Nigerians have also asked the players, particularly the attackers, to be decisive in their shootings, especially as the country approaches the crucial stages of the competition.
Football fan and former governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, on his tweeter handle, urged Ighalo to take his chances.
“The midfield needs a stronger holding. Not starting Chukwueze is probably a wrong approach. Ighalo needs to take his goal chances. Iwobi also needs to tactically up his game going forward. A good game so far,” he said while dwelling on the slim win over Guinea.
Also commenting on the team’s poor finishing, Solace Chukwu, former Enyimba of Aba media officer, said he never knew Ighalo to be selfish, urging the player to shun any desire for individual glory.
He tweeted: “Selfishness really not a trait you associate with Ighalo, but he cannot say he failed to spot Musa there for the simple tap-in. He must focus on team glory and not individual glory,” he said.
Meanwhile, there is nothing stopping Coach Gernot Rohr relying on on Ighalo, Samuel Chukwueze, Paul Onuachu, Victor Osimhen and Henry Onyekuru to find the net. Each of the players scored more than seven goals in their clubs last season, even as Onyekuru struck an impressive 16 times for Galatasaray.