Powered by RubiQube Ad Network CHIBUIKE CHUKWU, STEVE OMA-OFOZOR Rangers International and Enyimba, will kick-off the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) Super 6 at Agege Stadium in Lagos today. Both clubs qualified from the NPFL Group A, with Rangers winning the group, while Enyimba placed third behind second-placed Lobi Stars. The two clubs have won the league 14 times between them, seven apiece, and both have vowed to give the Super 6 all the seriousness it deserves in order to win the mini tournament and win the league eventually. Both sides met twice in the regular season with rangers winning 1-0 in Enugu, while Enyimba whipped Rangers 3-1 in Aba. FC IfeanyiUbah will take on Lobi Stars in the second game of the day. The Anambra Warriors were a late qualifier for the Super 6 from Group B, coming third behind leaders, Akwa United and second place Kano Pillars. However, IfeanyiUbah and Lobi Stars did not meet as they were placed in different groups, but unlike IfeanyiUbah, the Ortom Boys finished as the first runners up to Group A leaders, Rangers. Meanwhile, in the last fixture for today, Akwa United and Kano Pillars will renew rivalry. While Akwa United finished top of Group B with 38 points, Pillars earned 37 points, thus placing second. In the two meetings between them in the regular season, Pillars drew 1-1 with the Promise Keepers in Kano, while the reversed leg proved a massive win for the latter as they defeat Sai Masu Gida 3-0 in Uyo. Meanwhile Coach Godwin Izilein says the team that take their chances would win the tournament. According to him, the teams have intimidating pedigree in the Nigerian league. “This Super Six will be interesting and tough because the teams are all very good at the local and international scene – they have all played at the continental championships and they have the players and all the resources it takes to win the league. “Let us look at Rangers and Enyimba, they are household names in Nigeria and Africa – they have represented Nigeria in all continental tournaments; ditto Lobi Stars, Pillars, Akwa United and Ifeanyi Ubah. It’s going to be a cracker. At the end of the day only teams that capitalise on their opportunities can steal the show – in fact, it’s too close to call – it is an open game,” he said.