Seasoned banker and Managing Director, Growth and  Development Asset Management Limited (GDL) Mr. Kola Ayeye, has said that  investors should not use the nation’s current tariff as an excuse for under- performance of the sector. “Tariffs are no longer a big problem. The current tariffs are already close to international parity. Existing tariffs are very close to international averages. Across the 11 Power Distribution Companies, if you add the estimated bills, they may in fact be billing paying customers more than international averages.” Ayeye lamented the failure of the power sector to deliver regular electricity several years after privatization. “The power sector is a major failure in the civilian dispensation. We have gone 20 years and the power situation has only marginally improved. If we do not introduce radical reforms, another 20 years will lapse, and the sector will not record any change, he said. He spoke at a forum in Lagos,where he  identified the power sector as an essential requirement for output growth in the Nigeria’s manufacturing sector.. According to him, adequate electricity is a powerful engine of economic and social development, adding that no country has managed to develop much beyond a subsistence economy without ensuring at least minimum access to energy services for a broad section of its population. He  emphasized the need for the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and commercial banks to collaborate with the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to reposition the power sector for a quantum leap in performance. He said it is time to admit the failure of the last power privatization exercise, and recommended a new program where NERC, CBN and banks should, on a competitive basis, invite a global player in the caliber of GE (General Electric) or such similar player to commit to generate, transmit and distribute a minimum of 20,000 MW daily within 5 years, increasing same to 30,000MW daily by the 10th year. “We will be contracting to pay for power successfully delivered to the consumer rather than contracting for the execution of power projects. Execution of power projects has produced very poor results after huge investments in excess of $16bn. The nation has invested massively in power projects with poor results so we should change the model. Rather than contracting to execute power projects, let’s contract   best-in-class players to deliver power. It is not our business how they generate, transmit or distribute the power. They are to deliver the power. They will only get paid for the power they deliver to the consumers. Such big players exist and the size of the Nigerian power market is sufficient to attract them.” He advocated that the contract with the new concessionaire will be backed with a 10-year payment guarantee for power delivered to the consumer which will be provided either by AfDB, World Bank or first class international banks. Ayeye added, “Let us find a partner who will take over available power assets across the entire value chain. But our commitment will be to pay for power delivered to the consumer.  This contract will be between $8-12bn, and is definitely of a sufficient scale to attract a global best-in-class operator.” Mr. Ayeye, a former Executive Director of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria, AMCON, decried the level of default of both electricity generation companies (GENCOS) and distribution companies (DISCOS) to the banks stated such entities should be put up for reconcessioning/reprivatisation either through voluntary collaboration with CBN/NERC/banks or through receivership where the operator refuses to cooperate.  All such GENCOs and DISCOs, together with TCN, he opined, will be concessioned to this new operator. The new program will require collaboration between CBN, the banks and NERC. He said this radical reform in the power sector is necessary to address the abysmal performance of the present players who have failed to deliver constant power to users in Nigeria.