Powered by RubiQube Ad Network As winners of the 1976 Africa Cup on Nations, Morocco have failed to replicate that feat in the decades that have followed. They have been involved in 16 editions of the competition, finishing in third place in 1980 and runners up in the 2004 showpiece. Morocco’s highest ever FIFA ranking was achieved in April 1998, when they were named as the tenth best team in world football. They were the first African nation to progress to the second round of the FIFA World Cup, which was achieved in the 1986. Their impressive performances on the world stage signaled a golden period for the national team, who narrowly missed out on repeating that feat in 1998. Morocco AFCON debut was in 1972 and would bow out in the first round. They have experienced mixed fortunes since their debut appearance, winning the AFCON in 1976 and finishing as runner’s up in 2004 and third in 1980. They’ve twice finished in fourth place (1986, 1988). In 1998 they made it to the quarter finals, losing 2-1 to South Africa in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. Despite arriving in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon as ‘dark horses’ for the 2012 tournament, they failed to progress from a group containing Gabon, Tunisa and Niger, finishing third, with a record of two losses and a victory over Niger. Coach Herve Renard believes it is possible for them to win in Egypt. “I don’t know…. everything is possible in football but first we have to look at our opening game which is the most important, then step by step,” Renard told the Caf website. “We have a tough group and it will be very important to come to Egypt with an ambition of respect all our opponents. “We are in a very tough group and we need to come in here very concentrated. We have to be ready from the first game to get a good result which will give us some confidence going forward.” Although Morocco failed to advance past the group stage in the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia, they put in some decent performances. The Atlas Lions played out a 2-2 draw with former champions Spain in their last group game in the competition after previously losing to Iran and Portugal. Renard believes this experience will help his side at the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. “This experience will be very important because we played very good football. Though we didn’t get the result we wanted, all Moroccans were proud of their team. Now, we have to make them very happy again in Egypt,” he continued. “We are coming in with ambition and if you come with an ambition you have to beat everyone. We have a very good team and we need to believe in ourselves.” Morocco will kick off their campaign in the tournament against Namibia on June 23 before playing Cote d’Ivoire five days later and South Africa on July