Prince Ifagbemi Awamaridi, Lagos State governorship candidate of Labour Party in the last election in an interview with JOY ANIGBOGU lamented his frustration when he filed a case at the Lagos State Governorship Election Tribunal challenging the victory of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, among other issues. Excerpt: Your case challenging Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was dismissed by the tribunal. How did you see the judgment?
It is clear that the tribunal was biased. We filed within seven days, which was attested to by the tribunal officials because they received the documents. We filed within the stipulated time. Apart from that, the constitution does not allow such cases to be abated at that point in time. If they had wanted to give that kind of judgment, it shouldn’t be when you have determined the substance of the case. We have done trial and then you bring in that, but because of the biased nature of our judges, they took that particular decision. We are aware in this country where judges were being found to be corrupt. We were also witnesses were judges were found with lots of dollars in their homes and in their possession. It was not a surprise to us when that judgment came. We already proceeding to the Court of Appeal on that matter and we are demanding that the judges be relieved. We are not confident that they can handle our case. We are aware that what they had done was coming from the angle of bias and it is good that they had done that at this stage when we still have time to come back and go on with the trial. What we would come out with would send a lot of them to jail. A lot of staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will be jailed. What we would come up with would require explanations from Sanwo-Olu. Even his wife would talk to the court. A lot of criminality took place. INEC and All Progressives Congress (APC) were aware, hence they joined forces to frustrate us. It was a huge gang up to stop us from going to trial. They knew what we were taking to trail. So, they decided to abate it. Nigerian legal system provided alternative means of justice. By the time we are done with the Court of Appeal, I will file a case that will nail some judges handling the case. Definitely, we will succeed. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu supported the June 12 project and declared it a public holiday in Lagos State long before this period. How do you see Kola Abiola’s comment that Tinubu was an opportunist of June 12?
Sometimes, I don’t want to talk about June 12 because there are many self-created stories. At different point in time, people would rewrite history and say what did not happen. When it comes to activism in Nigeria, from 1978 and maybe 1979, I am aware of what happened till date. When people start talking of June 12, I laugh because people are just using that for their personal gain. The first question is, most of the people talking about June 12, are they saying it genuinely? Do they believe in the cause of the activism that came out of it? June 12 is not about an individual. June 12 came up as an epitome of an ideology. The military was supposed to go and there was an election and the military did not go. That was the basis. Abiola, the acclaimed winner of the election decided to take his mandate and a lot on inter plays.
Kola Abiola can rightly say that many people who talk about June 12 are opportunists. It could be true. When Abiola was detained, many people were doing other things. If everybody had stood firm it would not have been possible to deal with Abiola. Look at the history t hey are rewriting now. President Muhammad Buhari was a major figure in Abacha’s government. He was the head of Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF). Buhari and Abacha were in government during that time. It was during Abacha’s regime that Ken Sarowiwa was killed. They are not talking about that. When June 12 issue came up, Buhari did not say anything.
Fulani terrorists have a different way of manipulating political situations on ground. The June 12 they are trying to glorify, they are not glorifying it to give accolades to Abiola. People don’t understand. They are commemorating June 12 as the day they succeeded to conquer the whole of the South. If Abiola had been sworn in, he would have changed a lot of fundamental things, structures in Nigeria. If that had happened, these Fulani terrorists we are experiencing now would not have happened. They were celebrating their victory. Denying Abiola of being the president is a victory for the Fulani terrorists. They felt they should let a Southerner rule the nation. When you talk of Muslim/Muslim ticket, I would tell that they did not see Abiola as a genuine Muslim. In fact, they don’t see any Southerner as a genuine Muslim. They took June 12 as a day they fully break the strength of the South through Abiola.
If they say June 12 is Democracy Day, the big question is: Who is the democracy for? They know that there was an election, which was won by someone. So, why was it not actualised? Does it make sense to celebrate it when it was not actualised? Have you put Abiola’s name in the roll call of former presidents of Nigeria? It is the only thing that they can do that would make sense, and all necessary benefits given to his family members from that date till when he died. Then it would be in history that he was a president who died in mysterious circumstances. It would be shenanigan for a man who died in unexplained circumstances and then you are out to tell us you want to glorify that day. Are they celebrating a day when a Southerner won an election and was denied? Could it also be that you are celebrating the failure of the South to take over the mantle of leadership of Nigeria? You cannot say that Obasanjo was the will of the South because he was picked by the North. Abiola emerged on merit and it was not like the North picked him and put him there. It was the first time a Southerner would emerge as the will of the people. It was the Fulani that put Obasanjo. Jonathan was also brought in the Northerners. One month after Buhari’s second term inauguration, he is yet to name members of his cabinet. Do you think he can achieve his Next Level project?
There is no amount of decoration that you can give to somebody who is bereft of ideas that will perform any magic if he or she does not have capacity to perform, even if he recruits professor to work with him. In 100 years, anyone without ideas cannot perform. One thing that Nigerians do not know is that they have already started to extend his time beyond four years. Are you insinuating that when he said he would take 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years, that he was planning to extend his tenure beyond four years?
I am not insinuating. They have just sent you a message. He was telling you what he would do in 10 years and he was constitutionally empowered to be there for four years. He was talking of 10 years, what do you expect? Is 10 years not more than 10 years? That is how tenure elongation starts. He did not say in four years, he has just told you that he would be there for 10 years. All the comedians from the South are canvassing to be president and are not trying to fight the cankerworm that is on ground. They have been able to cage the legislature and the judiciary. This is just like military regime. Where are the checks and balances in government? It is said that those who make peaceful change impossible make forceful change inevitable. Everybody is fed up in this country and you are coercing people to suffer. You are making to suffer and you are forcing them to clap for you. Insecurity has continued to increase and those in government say it is just an exaggeration of the security situation. What is your view?
All over the world, Boko Haram are known as terrorists. It is only in Nigeria they are exonerated. It looks like this government is treating Fulani herdsmen with kid gloves. You wonder if these leaders are really Nigerians and still allow this country to be destroyed by criminals. The Nigeria Police is planning using close circuit television (CCTV) for surveillance in tackling the security challenge across the country. Do you think that can pay off?
The claimed they had CCTV in Abuja. When there was a bomb blast, it was discovered to be false. They spent billions on that. The system has broken down. There must be a fundamental change. People may want to use it to corruptly enrich themselves. It is not just by talking corruption that you fight corruption. Your action will determine if you are fighting corruption or not. You don’t need to shout corruption to fight corruption. All we need is restructuring in this country. Let us restructure the country and all other things will fall in place.