Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ASABA – Oge Kimono, musician daughter of the late rub-a-dub master and reggae legend, Ras Kimono is set to host a memorial concert in memory of her father who died a year ago on June 10, a month after his 60th birthday. Among other things like a memorial lecture, Kimono will also be launching her first ever album titled ‘Good Ole Days’ at the memorial concert, which will take place at the Niteshift Coliseum, Ikeja from 7 PM. The memorial lecture, themed, ‘Revolutionary Music of Equality and Justice’, is scheduled to commence from 11 AM at COSON House, where the Kimono was a director before his demise. Expected at the lecture are music enthusiasts and scholars, including renowned scholar and former Deputy Vice Chancellor, UNILAG, Professor Duro Oni, who will be presenting a paper on the theme of the lecture. Scheduled to perform at the concert are leading Nigerian acts like Sound Sultan, Oritz Williki, Ego, and Buchi. Others include Righteous Man, Joel, Dezign, Baba Leon and many more. Kimono herself will be on hand to equally dazzle on stage. According to her team, “the event is to commemorate the one year anniversary of Ras Kimono’s death and formally launch the taking over of the Massive dread band by Oge Kimono. Ras Kimono was one of the greatest musicians of the reggae genre that Nigeria ever produced, we cannot just forget him like that, there must be some sort of honor done him every year to mark his transcending to the glory beyond. This concert and memorial lecture are to keep his memories alive in the hearts of music lovers both home and abroad. We will also be launching Oge Kimono’s first ever album titled ‘Good Ole Days’. The album is dedicated to Ras Kimono and tells the story of the good old days where everything was nice and smooth, good nightlife, good music, near sincere government who cared for the people and a communal society where we looked out for one another.” Meanwhile, a talent development and community service initiative to launch Ras Kimono Development Foundation will also hold in Asaba on Saturday June 15. Elder Gideon Nwaomu, the Proprietor of Giddy’s Place and a close associate of Ras Kimono disclosed that the event will also climax to the closure of Giddy’s Place in farewell Concert. Nwaomu said that the business decision to close down Giddy’s Place was reached following much consultation and consideration of environmental factors characterised by depressed economy.