Powered by RubiQube Ad Network MAKURDI – In 2015 when the Alhaji Yahaya Bello delved into politics, little did the people of Kogi, including himself, knew that fate would play fast on him. Bello was then known by a tiny fragment of the state populace. People, including his kits and kin from his homestead, Okene, could not believe in his dangerous exploit. He was largely known through his foray into Fairplus Bus business even while he was a middle level officer with the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission (RMFC). Thus, when he threw up himself for the exalted office of the governor in a politically volatile state like Kogi, not many took him serious. But, those who were already down that fears no fall accepted him, especially those in financial institutions who were allegedly on their way out of job. In this wise, Hon Edward Onojah, who had tried his hands, albeit unsuccessfully on banking, hospitality and decoration industries found a perfect place in the emerging gambling arcade. He soon located his kinsman, Dr. Yakubu Ugwolawo, a very powerful petition writer and puritan. In his homestead, Dr. Tom Ohikere, a former Commissioner forIinformation, and a former House of Representatives member, Hon. Abdul Kokori, not forgetting his inlaw, Muktar Atima, were also on hand. The youngsters, with little experience in politics, coined their campaign pitch around a popular slogan of generational shift. That was the debate they went with to the political marketplace. They, from the onset, had nothing to do with the Methuselahs. They walked around the idiosyncracy of the youth and a web of hatred for the elderly. Those chanting power shift on geography were derided. Their loudspeakers were fine tuned to the highest fidelity to woo the youths. The elders ignored them at their peril. Then came the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election. The party became tipsy that it could not screen his voter card.  Although he was rejected by his people, he clung to the throat of the youths. He was beaten to a second position by indomitable and indefatigable opposition politician, Prince Abubakar Audu, who then unconsciously, but ironically prophesied that he had seen a material to hand over power to when he had completed his tenure. However, when Audu was to be declared winner of the November 21, 2015 governorship election, he died before the final announcement came, thus throwing the state into an unprecedented political and legal logjam that has not happened in many democracies of the world. Bello knew no politicians and no politicians knew him. Power beckoned. He know only those who pasting his posters. He would not bulge for the experienced. He had declared war on experience. He had to combine generational change with a stolen “New Direction” slogan, which was originally the coinage of Dr. Nda Tims Diche for his electioneering campaign. After the legal obstacles had been cleared, he was given the mantle to lead Kogi State, even when he was not qualified to vote in the inconclusive election. The reality dawned on him as he had no choice, but to constitute his cabinet around his willing tools, comprised mainly the untutored. Over 80% of his cabinet could not add value to purposeful governance. This led to a comatose economy that kept worsening over the past three years with no sign of recovery. The APC in the state, which he inherited, lacked sound administration as its affairs were being run like a fiefdom with the imposition of his former Special Adviser on Political Affairs as the state cairman, Alhaji Abdullahi Bello. With Bello on saddle of APC the party executive were just in sound, but not in sight. Those who laboured for the party’s success where harassed, intimidated and sent packing. Brazen autocracy, lack of inclusiveness and sharp division in the party and gross ineptitude enveloped the state as no meaningful development and policies could be enunciated that would bring the state out of the doldrums.  It is on record, sadly though, that the Bello administration was and is still the only administration, since the inception of the state in 1991, that lacked even a single block for housing scheme for workers. Bello on assumption of office as part of his hilarious achievements, demolished all the roundabouts in Lokoja metropolis and erected uncompleted sentry roundabout the Government House. It is also on record that the white lion and his white oracle embarked on inglorious workers’ verification that has lasted till date, which emasculated the workers economically, leaving them worse than destitute. He has argued without reasons to reduce the number of months owed workers as salaries from 40 to five, while in some instances denied owing a dime. From the cash inflow into the state since he took over which runs into over N300 billions,  Ankpa township road of a maximum of 3km radius and the Mount Parti road were part of his celebrated high wired profligacy immersed in large scale corruption, fraud and wasteful spending. It is equally on record that in four years, he has not constructed 20km roads cross the state.  The Okene Agassa road and Kuroko Itakpe, which he constructed is less than 20 kilometers. Statistics shows that the Ibana – Okpo, Iga Ikeje – Ogugu  road, which he  rehabilitated, is  less than 50 km, even as Ankpa Abejukolo portion of the road reconstructed in almost four years is less than 5km. In education, the rot is overwhelming. His actual identity of abhorring sound education is typified by  his draconian treatment of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), which has caused Kogi State University to be at the risk of being delisted by the National Universities Commission (NUC) record as everything, including human resources, have been run aground. It is on record that during his time professors and PhD holders were sacked from the institution, leaving it with youth corps members and technologists to man departments. The administration instead of making lives meaningful for students at the Kogi State Polytechnics, Lokoja, has in the name of rehabilitating the hostels, sacked them and removed the roofs to prevent students l from accessing their hostels, forcing them to patronise off campus accommodation with dire consequences on students and parents. In the primary and secondary section, the story is pathetic. In some schools, educational infrastructures have become obsolete, worsened by the dearth of teachers due to the inhuman screening exercise that has almost wiped out generation of teachers from the state. It is so bad that some schools were left with just a teacher. It is a commonplace in Lokoja and major cities of the state while pupils are suppose to be in schools they took to playing football in front of their houses while some took to hawking with consequences of social delinquencies. More worrisome is the health sector. Hitherto, the state Specialists Hospital in Lokoja boasted of the most modern equipment with high percentage of specialist doctors and other health professionals. But, equipments have gone bad without replacement, while over 100 specialist doctors have resigned their appointments in pursuit of greener pastures. Recently, a leaked letter from the management of the specialist hospital begging the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) to loan them their staff to help them cope with the upsurge of patients, was rejected. The health centres and clinics in rural communities have packed off as there were no drugs, and the dearth of medical personnel has made the spiritual homes and herbalist centres beehives of patients. Pitiable though, Governor Bello had made substantial inroad into fighting transitional criminals, the success is being eroded by the recent attack of communities across the state by the murderous Fulani herdsmen. His handling of the Fulani attack and reprisal left much to be desired. Sadly, those who assisted him to power got a bitter treatment from the White Lion, starting from Senator Dino Melaye. Dino had insulted the entire people of the state during the inauguration ceremony that who ever challenge the divine rule of Bello will be doing so against the Divine authority of God, whom against the will of the state voted for Bello. However, the support lasted few months before their fight broke out . Dino is assumed to have nine lives to have not been felled by the state sponsored bullets on many occasions. As the battle rages on, supporters , like Tom Ohikere, Alhaji Mohammed  Ohiare, the erstwhile APC chairman Haddy Ametuo who played significant roles in his e emergence were bannished from the state. The legal role played by the State Chief Judge Justice Nasir Ajana during the legal fireworks for his eligibility for the office , was sooner than later turned to his punching bags. He has vowed to remove him from the office using phantom staff verification which has denied Judiciary workers of their one year’s salaries . Paradoxically, the alleged financial exclusiveness among the political appointees and perceived high handedness may play spoiler roles when it matters most. Meanwhile, his latest undercurrent with the national chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, may be his ondoing in the quest for the party’s ticket for the November 16, 2019 governorship election in Kogi State. Time, they say, will tell, as battle for Lugard House has begun in earnest.