Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – More than 150 journalists covering the National Assembly might have been excluded from the list of accredited press men/women to cover the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly on June 11, Daily Independent can report. This is coming barely three weeks after the management of the Assembly suspended a move to deregister journalists via what was generally termed “draconian” guidelines proposed for accreditation of journalists and media organizations. The new move was discovered following instruction by the management that only 10 reporters would be allowed to cover the inauguration as far as print media was concerned, just as a handful if television and radio reporters were selected for the event. Of the over 12 photojournalists covering the legislature from both chambers, only one was accredited to cover the event, making the list if a very few names selected out of the 160 registered journalists who are members of both the House and Senate Press Corps. Daily Independent gathered that the 10 print slots accepted from the House were based on the insistence by executive members of the corps, who rejected the initial four slots approved by the management for accreditation. Also in the Senate, more than 12 journalists were dropped from the list of those initially accredited. Traditionally, journalists covering the legislature are allowed to occupy the gallery via accreditation while other reporters not listed are allowed to cover the inauguration from their press centres via live telecast. The sixth and seventh assemblies accreditation process was hassle-free as more than 25 reporters and cameramen were accredited from each press corps while others were allowed into the complex. Immediately after the inauguration, movements were no longer restricted to enable reporters and cameramen do their jobs. However, with the latest arrangement, it is apparent that some media houses would be locked out of the complex until the entire proceedings were concluded on Tuesday. Daily Independent also gathered that NASS management might meet on the issue as journalists were particularly not too happy over how they were being treated like third class citizens while carrying out their duties.