Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Super Falcons hope of reaching the knockout stage of the ongoing FIFA Women’s World Cup in France is dependent on the outcome of today’s game against South Korea. Falcons, who lost their opening game 3-0 to Norway last Saturday need a win to stand a chance of reaching the second round. The game will kickoff at 3.pm (Nigeria time) at the Stade des Alpes, Grenoble. The Koreans lost their opening game 4-0 to France last Friday. Defender Faith Michael has been ruled out of the tournament. She was injured in a clash with goalkeeper Tochukwu Oluehi during Saturday’s 0-3 loss to Norway and will take no further part in the championship, no matter how far the African champions get. The team again trained on Tuesday, and apart from Michael, the remaining 22 players are rearing to go. In Michael’s absence, Chidinma Okeke, a former junior international will start at right back. She was impressive against the Norwegians when she replaced Michael in the 53rd minute on Saturday. The central defensive pairing of veteran Onome Ebi and Osinachi Ohale will be maintained, as left back Ngozi Ebere. In the midfield, Dennerby will decide whether to once more go with the trio of Ngozi Okobi, Rita Chikwelu and Halimatu Ayinde, or rest the latter for Portugal –based Chinaza Uchendu. Desire Oparanozie, Asisat Oshoala and Francisca Ordega will be saddled with the assignment of getting the goals that will keep Falcons’ hopes of remaining in France beyond 17th June. While Nigeria and Korea DPR have met on two occasions at the FIFA World Cup (one win each way), it is a first meeting for the Super Falcons against South Korea. Meanwhile, Coach Thomas Dennerby, has charged them to put in their best and ensure they win. “For us to still be in the competition, we must beat the Koreans. A victory will still give us hope and chance of qualifying for the second round, but a defeat will be disastrous,” he said. Meanwhile, veteran defender, Faith Michael has been ruled out of the tournament.