Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – “In the light of the foregoing, and upon due consultation with party leaders and relevant stakeholders, I believe that the time has come for me to sacrifice my ambition for the unity and continuity of our party at the senatorial level and across all elective offices. Hence, I hereby release my unopposed ticket to the leadership of the party in Lagos State – Gbenga Ashafa, October 2018 After eight years of effective representation in the National Assembly, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, one of Nigeria’s finest lawmaker will bid the Senate farewell. While his constituents in Lagos East senatorial district gave him a pass mark and asked him to return for another term, clashes between Ashafa’s supporters and those belonging to Honourable Bayo Osinnowo, a former member of the Lagos State House of Assembly (now the Senator-elect) during the primaries prompted Ashafa to sacrifice his ambition for the unity and continuity of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). In 2011, Gbenga Bareehu Ashafa, a former Permanent Secretary, in Lagos State Lands Bureau was elected as senator to represent Lagos East senatorial district, replacing Olorunimbe Mamora. The district comprises of five Local Government Areas namely: Somolu, Kosofe, Ikorodu, Epe and Ibeju-Lekki; and eleven (11) Local Council Development Areas which are Bariga, Ikosi-Isheri, Agboyi-Ketu, Ikorodu-West, Ikorodu-North, Ijede, Imota, Igbogbo- Baiyeku, Ikosi- Ejinrin, Eredo and Lekki. In the 7th Session of the Nigerian Senate, Ashafa was the Vice-Chairman, Senate Committee on Lands, Housing and Urban Development as well as the Treasurer of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), now All Progressives Congress (APC) Senate Caucus. He was also a member of the senate committees on Environment and Ecology; Federal Character; Gas; and Senate Services. During his election campaign in 2011, Senator ‘Gbenga Ashafa promised to work hard to translate electoral promises to meaningful realities. No one was left in doubt then what he set out to do. In discharging this element of his primary responsibility, over the course of the 7th Senate, Senator ‘Gbenga Ashafa was able to successfully sponsor the following important bills and motions on the floor of the senate. They are: Income Tax Holiday Bill for Corporate Companies (2011); A bill on the creation of an agency which would cater for the promotion and preservation of our local languages (2011); A bill on Treaty-Making Process (Amendment Bill) (2012); A bill on Criminal Code (Amendment Bill) (2012); National Directorate of Employment Act (Amendment) Bill (2013); Harmful Waste (Special Criminal Provisions, etc) (Amendment) Bill 2013; Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill 2013 and Minerals and Mining Act (Amendment) Bill 2013; Others are Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act (Amendment) Bill (2014); Bank and Other Financial Institutions Act (Amendment) Bill (2014); Advertising Practitioners (Registration, etc) (Amendment) Bill; Declaration of Assets (Amendment) Bill; Motion on the deteriorating Services of GSM operators in Nigeria; and Motion on the imminent collapse of the Third Mainland Bridge; In addition, he has also co-sponsored some other equally important bills and motions. They are: Prohibition of Same Sex Marriage Bill, which has now become law in the federation; Motion on the Lagos Flood; Motion on the creation of unemployment data and creation of job centres in the country; and Motion on the solutions to terrorism in Nigeria. Popularly referred to as ‘King of Boys’, Ashafa, a youth-oriented lawmaker waged a relentless war against drug abuse in the country, describing the rate of drug abuse in the country as a threat to national development. He also decried the rise in the abuse of prescription medications and over the counter pills which he described as dangerous to national development. “I must state that the increase in rate of drug abuse, particularly in the dispensation of over the counter medication has become very alarming and a threat to National Development”. “Drugs like, codeine, tramadol among others have been used as stimulants and narcotics by a large number of our youth. “To this end, I sponsored a motion on the floor of the senate a Motion on Nigerians involvement in illicit Global Drug Trade and increase in Domestic Abuse by Nigerian Youths and a bill for the amendment of the Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act. These legislative interventions seek to ensure that we overcome drug abuse in Nigeria.” His efforts paid off in May 2018 as The Federal Ministry of Health directed the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control to ban with immediate effect further issuance of permits for the importation of codeine as active pharmaceutical ingredient for cough preparations. Ashafa was re-elected in 2015. Prior to the inauguration of the Standing committees, he was appointed to serve in the Senate Ad-hoc Committee on the Review of the Finance of the Senate and Senate Ad-hoc Committee on Import Duty Waivers. Upon the announcement of committee Chairmen on the 4th of November, 2015 by His Excellency, Dr. Bukola Saraki the President of the Senate, he became the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Land Transport – a position he held meritoriously till the end of the 8th Session of the National Assembly. He is also a member of the National Executive Committee of the APC as well as the Vice Chairman (South West) of the Southern Senators Forum. Ashafa’s passion for the rail sector can be depicted through the manner in which the Senator has continued to Defend the appropriations sought for by the executive for capital intensive rail infrastructure projects across the country. E.g. The Lagos to Kano (Standard Gauge) Nigerian Railway Modernization Project and the Calabar to Lagos Standard Gauge Coastal Rail Project. In his capacity as the Chairman Senate Committee on Land Transport, Senator Ashafa was able to lead his colleagues on the committee to completely overhaul the legislation surrounding the Nigerian Railway Sector by repealing the Nigerian Railway Corporation Act 1955 and Replacing it with the Nigerian Railway bill 2016 which was passed by the senate on 21st July, 2016. Amongst notable bills and motions sponsored by Ashafa in the 8th Senate include: The Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act Amendment Bill 2016, The Chartered institute of Logistics and Transport Bill 2016, The City University of Technology Bill 2016 and the Sporting Tax Holiday Bill 2016. Others are the Nigerian Postal Bill 2017, The Nigerian French Language Village Establishment Bill 2017, South West Development Commission (2018) and Federal Polytechnic Iwerekun, Ibeju-Lekki, lagos state(EST) BILL 2018. In the area of empowerments, Ashafa has done a lot. He completed the construction of 12 Boreholes across the district, with another 8 sites under construction. He also completed construction of an ICT Centre with Supply of Computer Systems at Oreyo Secondary School, Igbogbo, Ikorodu as well as another ICT centre in Imota. He also facilitated free Medical Outreach Programmes across the district as well as social security schemes for indigent elderly people in the district. Presently, he also partnered with the Bank of Industry (BOI) with a view to facilitating business loans for 1,500 business men and women of Lagos East Constituency. In the last general elections, Ashafa served as a member of the Election Planning and Monitoring Directorate of the 2019 Presidential Campaign Council of the APC and contributed immensely to the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State. Speaking on Ashafa’s achievements, Chief Olorunfunmi Basorun, a former Secretary to Lagos State Government, said he is the district’s greatest ever senator in the Fourth Republic. “Senator Gbenga Ashafa is the best in Lagos East Senatorial district. He has performed on the floor of the House in terms of motions and bills. He has been a pillar of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the senate. He is a pillar of support for the party and the government. Ashafa is an accomplished graduate, a civil servant in the state who rose to the position of permanent secretary before retiring. He has been showing it. They call him Mr. Railway in the senate”. Another APC chieftain in Lagos East, Raheem Olaoluwa said they have donated Ashafa to President Buhari. “We want him to continue representing us but the powers that be truncated it. So, we have donated him to President Buhari. We believed that his experience as a ranking senator will come handy in assisting the President deliver on his Next Level agenda” he said.