Powered by RubiQube Ad Network KANO – Aliko Dangote, Africa richest man and the Chairman, Nigeria Governors Forum, Kayode Fayemi on Friday night brokered peace in the lingering crisis of confidence between Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano State and the Emir of Kano, Malam Sanusi II in Abuja. The two leaders have been enmeshed in a war of attrition over certain irreconcilable differences culminating in the balkanization of Kano Emirate into five emirates by Ganduje’s ministration. A statement by Abba Anwar, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ganduje, noted that for healthier relationship between the government and Kano Emirate, dialogue continues in Abuja today. Anwar said Ganduje exchanges Sallah pleasantries with the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, in Abuja Friday night. According to the statement, “As the two leaders met, they congratulated each other for the successful completion of the Month of Ramadan fast and the Sallah festive period. The statement further said “both leaders spoke jointly to all Muslims and urged them to continue with the good teachings and spirit of the fasting period of the Month of Ramadan.” Anwar said Emir Sanusi seized the opportunity of the August meeting to congratulate Ganduje on his victory in last governorship election and wish the governor a successful tenure in office. Meanwhile, the Emir on Saturday officially responded to the query issued by the Kano State Government, absolving himself of any wrong doing on allegations of misappropriating the sum of N3.4 Billion. Alhaji Usman Alhaji, Secretary to Kano State government had in a 4-paragraphs query issued to the First Class Emir, June 6th chronicled the investigations, findings and recommendations of Kano Anti-Corruption Agency, and consequently demanded that the Emir respond to the allegation of financial misappropriation to enable the state government take an informed decision. Incidentally, Emir Muhammad Sanusi II turbulent reign as the 19th Fulani Emir of Kano clocks five years today. Already, the Kano residents have lauded Governor Ganduje and the Emir for resolving their differences. Some residents, who spoke with News Agency of Nigeria on Saturday in Kano, expressed happiness at the reconciliation. According to some of them, the reconciliation was in the best interest of peace in the state and the nation. Dr Abba Ahmed, a retired civil servant in the state, said the reconciliation provided much relief to many residents. “I have been tensed since the issue started, especially as I live close to the emirate. He explained that the situation was one of the few bad things that could happen to Kano, thus commend the committee that brokered peace between the two leaders. Malam Nura Muhammad, a civil servant, told NAN that the reconciliation was timely as it would save the whole of Northern Nigeria a lot of trouble. “Kano has indeed become a centre for democracy not only in the North but in the whole country and many states look up to it for new political strategies. “It’s also a hub for traditional influence where the Emirate plays a vital role in global affairs, while the Emir himself has attracted global attention,” he said. Malam Muhammad Ahmad, a businessman, said the reconciliation had saved Kano from shame because of so many uncertainties that could arise if the whole process had continued. He urged residents to keep praying for more peace in the state and the country at large and avoid developing enmities on political issues. In the meantime, the Kano State Police Command has revoked permission to hold any form of rally, demonstration, procession or assembly in the State. A press statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abdullahi Haruna said the measure was to prevent and avert any threat, breach of peace or break down of law and order in the face of various security challenges in the State. The statement warned members of the public, Civil Society Organisations, political parties and other groups under whatever guise to adhere to the suspension order until further notice The police command also warned that any person or group of persons found to have engaged in any unlawful assembly will be arrested and prosecuted in accordance with the laws of the land.