Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – It has now been revealed why the Flying Eagles crashed out of the ongoing FIFA U-20 World Cup in Poland ignominiously. The team lost 1-2 to Senegal in their Round of 16 tie to crash out of the tournament on Monday. They qualified for the knockout stage as one of the four best third placed teams, having won a game, drew one and lost one. They defeated Qatar 4-0 in their opening group game before losing 2-0 to and forced Ukraine to a 1-1 draw in their final group match. Though the team performance was abysmal, we learnt from one of the players who pleaded anonymity that players’ morale was very low because they were never paid any allowances during the tournament. According to the source, each of the players is owed N1.7m at the end of the group stage and “we told the NFF officials we will not play the second round match against Senegal unless we were paid our allowances. “After that match (Qatar) we were promised that our allowances would be paid but nothing happened and that affected us in the match against USA. “We almost boycotted the match against Ukraine which ended 1-1; yet we were still not paid. This made us not to train ahead of the second round match against Senegal which we lost 2-1. “That was why we refused to leave the hotel after we crashed out unless we were paid our allowances by the NFF. “As at the end of the match against Senegal, we were each owed N2m and we will do everything best possible to ensure that we get our money. “In fact, we are going to protest on Friday once we get to Abuja from Poland because we need to get our money,” said our source. According to him, the technical crew did their best as the coaches persuaded them not to boycott the match against Senegal but they could not stop us from getting our allowances because they (the coaches) have been paid. It would be recalled that DAILY INDEPENDENT had reported exclusively on Friday, May 24 that the players have resolved to resist any attempt by Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) officials to withhold their allowances during the mundial. The players resolved then to put in their best at the tournament, but will also want the authorities to play their roles as expected of them by ensuring their financial dues are not delayed.