LAGOS – When news broke that an Air Peace aircraft skidded off the runway at Port Harcourt International Airport in Omagwa, Rivers State last Saturday as a result of flooding brought about by heavy downpour, many realised that the season of flooding was truly upon us in Nigeria.  The most worrisome fact perhaps remains that the current of the water pooled on the runway was strong enough to derail the course of a whole passenger plane that weighs roughly 80,000 kg. Such a flood, can conveniently sweep away human beings if care is not taken. It’s no longer news that Nigeria now suffers flooding and its attendant disaster. Many decades ago, the concept of flooding was a nuisance that was rather alien to many parts of Nigeria, but in the last decade, news of flooding around the nation has given rise to concern about the problem. On Wednesday, June 26, the Director-General of the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA), Clement Nze, reiterated the agency’s prediction that no fewer than 74 Local Government Areas (LGA) in 30 states in Nigeria would experience severe flooding in June, July, August and September of 2019. He also shared that another 279 LGAs would experience minimum flooding across the country in the period. He attributed the flooding to climate change and other man-made factors, including the dumping of refuse in drains and building of structures on natural water channels. Presently, while many states like Kano, Gombe, Lagos and a few others have been reported to taking remediation steps to stop environmental damage that flooding causes, there is no apparent concerted efforts by many other state governments to prevent these disasters. For example, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), on Wednesday, June 26, began the distribution of seedlings and other agricultural inputs to farmers affected by the 2018 flooding in Benue. In Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki has assured on Monday, June 24 that more drainage projects are underway, and that more flood control projects have been included in several infrastructure projects across the state, to mitigate the impact of such disaster in the future. The governor also deployed the Special Adviser on Special Duties, Yakubu Gowon, and other appointees in allied ministries to mobilise their staff to assist victims of flooding, after the heavy rainfall that started in the early hours of Monday. This for many is synonymous to medicine after death. In the past couple of weeks since the rains have intensified, a number of areas in Edo and Lagos States have experienced the first wave of the predicted flooding, and already, the latest victims of flooding have begun to emerge. In Benin, Edo State some of the victims of the Monday, June 24 flood took refuge in a Christ Apostolic Church of God Mission, a church within the neighbourhood where the disaster happened in Ogbowan Street and Ogbowan Crescent, Ugbor area of the Government Reservation Area in Benin, where houses were submerged by the flood. Mrs. Grace Manasseh, a victim, reported that the rains started around 4:00 a.m. in the area on Monday, June 24, and by 7:00 a.m, just three hours later, the flood had overtaken their entire house. In Lagos, flooding has visited areas like Surulere, Gbagada, Oke-Odo, Abule-Odu, and environs. Adeyinka Ademuyiwa, a resident of Ijesha, a populated area of Surulere, Lagos says it is now difficult for people in his area to freely go about their activities. Adebola Oni, who resides at Tony Enyinna Street, Gbagada was heard lamenting the tragedy of flood saying, “The rains are here again; living here is like sharing a room with the devil.” During a recent tour by Rethinking Cities, an NGO that focuses on urban development and housing, and was supported by Heinrich Boll Stiftung, a German NGO; the residents of Adeniji-Adele cried out at the present state of the properties in the estate, which was at a time considered as an attractive residential community. Today, the flooding faced by the community is so persistent that large parts of the estate remain perpetually submerged. One of nature’s leading solutions to the issue of flooding are wetlands, and it has been confirmed in a study, and by residents of the Adeniji-Adele Estate that encroachment and infringement on wetlands are one of the leading causes of the flooding experienced in Lagos and their community. A wetland is a distinct ecosystem, which occurs naturally on every continent, and is immersed by water, either permanently or seasonally and is a nature-given solution to flooding. While there are wetlands available in different areas of Nigeria, Lagos as a whole is perhaps the first state paying attention to the solution. Saturday INDEPENDENT recently went on a bus tour initiated by Rethinking Cities and supported by Heinrich Boll. The wetland visited as a case study is a four-kilometer stretch from Anthony to Maryland, Lagos and sections of the land were already in use. Speaking at the location was Gbogboade Seun of JustGreen who revealed that the wetland had indeed been encroached upon by recycling companies, farmers, mechanics and people with the intention of building permanent structures. He further explained that parts of the land had even been sold to unsuspecting buyers. However, because of the nature of the land, which makes it difficult to build on, many of the owners of these lands are willing to see it protected to prevent flooding. General Manager, Lagos State Parks And Gardens Agency (LASPARK), Bilkis Adebiyi-Abiola explained that wetlands encroachment can indeed encourage flooding. In Lagos, she shared that her agency was working assiduously to put in place structures that allow the lands to be protected. “One of the first projects that came to my desk was the Linear Park Project. It’s the first of its kind and one that we are passionate about it. But we don’t want to just come and build something that would be a white elephant and it fails, so we are taking our time to get stakeholders on board. We are interfacing with members of the community, and we want to make sure that everyone’s voice is heard, which is why we have Heinrich Boll NGO with us because they forced us to really follow due process. We started in late January, and we are about to finish up the committee and all the findings,” she said. Speaking on why these wetlands were being encroached upon, Adebiyi-Abiola said, “Lagos is a small state with a small land mass and a huge population. One of the things that we have discovered is that our wetlands are under serious threats from human impact. People have built on it. Yet we ask why there is heavy flooding whenever it rains. The wetlands are a huge way to prevent pollution because they absorb a high amount of carbon emissions. So they are important for our survival. “In our initial plan, it was a wide area, about 15 meters or more that was set aside for the park. So that area is not meant for human habitation, it is a green area. When people build houses in those kinds of places, they have flood because it is not meant for habitation but for remediation, where you plant trees and various things to protect the area. Whenever it rains, the land is supposed to quickly suck in the excess water to prevent flooding. When we went there, we saw that people had built and taken a huge amount of alignment. So we decided that we would maintain that alignment in our project on the place. We have no intentions to take anybody’s land, because the land in question is not one that is habitable, and it is for the public benefit and good. The people that bought the land are innocents because they didn’t set out to buy lands in a wetland. So we are only going to take the canal that is actually meant for drainage, which would protect the drainage.” She further explained that “There is no need to reinvent, all the solutions are out there. We are staking our claim of the land with this project, and once we are able to do it successfully, we want to do it in other wetlands to prevent encroachment from continuing. This would be a pilot. We can’t continue like this. When you consider the billions that we spend on flood remediation, simple things that we can do with these wetlands are natural solutions and we won’t have to spend all that money. If we don’t save these wetlands now, what are the problems that we would face in the next five years?”