Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ASABA – Deltans are still counting loses following a heavy down pour which started on Thursday. The situation was not different everywhere in the state as the flood has rendered some residents of Asaba and its environs homeless. Parts of the busy Okpanam road in Asaba was taken over by the flood, causing serious traffic grid as motorists were forced to drive one way. Also, the road leading to Junior Staff quarter from Summit road was cut off by the unrelenting flood. Premises of the Delta Broadcasting Service, DBS Asaba were submerged by the flood, sacking the workers from their offices. Our Correspondent, who was at the broadcasting station, reports that some of the staff were seen at the gate looking helpless. However, the contractor handling the ongoing storm drainage project in Asaba, was seen at the radio station apparently trying to salvage the situation. Some workers of the contracting firm were also seen at the DBS at the Okpanam road end perhaps studying the problem. Some of the staff who spoke with Saturday INDEPENDENT, lamented that their offices have been taken over by the blood. The staff, who pleaded anonymity, said most of the equipment of the broadcasting station has been destroyed by the flood. While calling on the State Government to expedite action on the storm drainage project, they decried that the flooding was hindering their jobs and efficiency of the station. He lamented that the poor drainage system was causing Umueze people so much pain, decrying that more people would be rendered homeless if something was not urgently done to remedy the situation. One of the residents, Ogechukwu Okonkwo, who spoke to newsmen, lamented that the flood was as a result of a poor drainage system in the areas. Meanwhile, the Delta State Government has expressed concern on the recent rains that have caused flooding across the state and Asaba the state capital in particular, where flood control measures are ongoing. “While it cannot be explained away that the floods are only natural in the face of the low lying nature of the capital city, the delay in the completion of the storm water projects had not helped to bring the desired succour as envisaged,” said Paul Osahor JP, permanent secretary, Ministry of Information.