Powered by RubiQube Ad Network After failing to qualify for the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations, which was co-hosted by Equatorial Guinea and Gabon, Algeria have shown consistency in their appearance for the competition, making it to the 2013, 2015 and 2017 editions in South Africa, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon respectively. But the Desert Foxes officially debuted at the biannual competition in 1968 when it was hosted by Ethiopia, but their best bet was a final win over Nigeria in 1990 when they hosted the competition. Before then, it was a silver medal finish in the 1980 edition in Nigeria that stood them apart. In all, Algeria, since debuting at the competition, have won the AFCON once, finished as runners up once, won bronze twice, ended on the fourth place twice and emerged as quarter finalists on four occasions. Meanwhile, after a seamless qualification for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nation where they won three matches, drew two and lost one in a group that also had Benin Republic, Gambia and Togo, Algeria have been tipped to do well. Now at the tournament proper, the Desert Foxes have been handed what people termed a tricky group with the presence of the Teranga Lions of Senegal a major threat to the Algerians. They will also confront Kenya and Tanzania. Analysts believe that with Senegal highly favoured to emerge from the group, Algeria should follow suit, while not ruling out possible upsets from Kenya and Tanzania. Algeria, meanwhile, are not lacking in the players that would turn things around for them in Egypt, with Riyad Mahrez of Manchester City headlining the array of stars that will be on parade for the former African champions. Even the absence of Napoli’s Faouzi Ghoulam may play little role in diminishing the strength of the Foxes. Coach Djamel Belmadi will also bank on Galatasaray midfielder Sofiane Feghouli, who recently won the league and cup double in Turkey, as well as Porto attacker Yacine Brahimi, as the Desert Foxes gear up for the biennial showpiece. But one noticeable problem in Algerian squad is their shaky defence. In the six matches played during the qualifiers, they conceded goals in fur, meaning that at the back, they are very vulnerable and that could play in their disfavor, particularly against the ’unknown’ opponents like Tanzania and Kenya.