Professor Yemi Osinbajo, the Vice President, has stirred the hornet nest. Osinbajo, who was addressing some Nigerians in a town hall meeting in far away New York, United States of America (USA), was quoted as saying that the reports of ongoing insecurity in the country, particularly kidnapping and banditry, were exaggerated. Osinbajo was quoted as saying that the Federal Government was working closely with the state governments in its efforts to rid the country of kidnapping. However, Osinbajo’s statement, as reported by the media, was not well received in his home country by Nigerians, who had been bearing the brunt of insecurity, especially kidnapping and banditry. For instance, the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, condemned the statement credited to Osinbajo, over the issue of insecurity, especially kidnapping in the South West and some other parts of the country. Afenifere, which incidentally holds sway in the South West geo-political zone, where Osinbajo hailed from, alleged that while in US, the VP had stated that the kidnapping incidents in the South West were politically motivated, a statement the group described as unfortunate and provocative. Afenifere’s view was contained in a communique issued at the end of the group’s monthly meeting held at the residence of its leader, Pa. Reuben Fasoranti in Akure, the Ondo State capital, and read by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yinka Odumakin. The group said it was overwhelmed by the reports of the traumatisation of the Yoruba people, allegedly by the Fulani herdsmen, who were kidnappers and militia, all across the six states in the South-West as well as Kwara and Kogi States. The group said: “All the reports provided clear indications of failure of the state as the security forces are largely incapable or unwilling to safeguard the lives of our people against these criminals as we are not aware of any of them that has been arrested or is under trial at the moment just as all the Federal Government has done so far is to make excuses for the Boko Haram and Miyetti Allah groups that have been accused of so many crimes against the people of Nigeria. “It is against this backdrop that the meeting was scandalised by the opportunistic and provocative utterances of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo in NewYork on Sunday dismissing the danger we are faced in Yorubaland as well as by other zones in Nigeria as being “politically motivated.” However, following controversies arising from Osinbajo’s statement, he recanted, saying that he was quoted out of context. According to Laolu Akande, what Afenifere and other critics were harping on was not the central message Osinbajo was conveying in New York at a town hall meeting with the Nigerian community. Akande said he had seen some of the misleading reports and the subsequent reactions of some groups, including a faction of Afenifere, stating that the current wave of the menace of insecurity in the country would yield a more secure nation. According to him, “a closer reading of what the VP said would have avoided some of needless the interpretations we have heard.” Listing four critical points made by Osinbajo, Akande explained the VP made it clear that, “indeed the kidnappings going on where they do, are a concern to the government,” adding, “the FG is using technology and tracking gadgets to curtail the situation.” Osinbajo explained that “the kidnappers are engaged in criminal conduct and with consequences enforced for such economic crimes, the kidnappers would stop.” The VP assured Nigerians, both home and abroad, that “the FG is on top of the situation and that the problem of kidnapping is not insurmountable.” He quoted the president thus: “The problem is not as massive that it cannot be solved and the FG working with the States would solve it soon and make life more secure and comfortable for Nigeria.” According to Akande, these were the things the VP said, even as he referred to existing record, adding, “Any other interpretation is not only inaccurate but ought to be ignored.” He stressed: “Trying to latch on an inaccurate headline to attack the Vice President is not very useful, it only distorts and distracts from the work and our country needs all hands on deck to sort out our issues.” Not minding the denial by Presidency, a cross section of Nigerian had been wondering if Osinbajo was sincere if what was attributed to him was really what he said. Osinbajo’s Statement Is Regrettable – Politician A former councillor and chieftain of the Grassroots Democratic Movement, Nkwerre LGA, said: “I was shocked to read the statement credited to the vice president in one of the national dallies. For the vice president to have made such a ridiculous utterance is quite regrettable. It means that he is not sensitive to what is happening.  I pray that he should not be a victim to the insecurity in the land. VP Only Showed FG’s Rating Of Insecurity In Nigeria Retired teacher Female Politician, in Imo State, said: “The remark by the Vice President speaks volume of the FG’s rating of insecurity in this country. May be, the VP wants all of us to perish before he will appreciate that our insecurity is as bad as is being reported in the media.” Let Us Leave Osinbajo To His Conscience Benin-based medical doctor said: “I must be frank with you, I didn’t read the Vice President’s comment and if it is true that he actually made such a statement, knowing full well that what he is saying is not the true position of the situation, we should leave him to his conscience because as a man of God it is left for him to judge himself whether he is saying the truth before God. Because conscience is an open wound only truth can heal it. “If he is trying to hide the truth to please his masters instead of saying the truth to please God who he professed to be serving as a Pastor, we should leave him to God the only omnipresent and omniscient who is not partial in His judgment to decide his faith and pronounce His final judgment on the number two citizens of Nigeria.” Osinbajo Not In Tune With Nigeria’s Security Situation Minna-based pastor, stated:  “I used to have great respect for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. But, now the respect has fizzled out by his statement on insecurity. In the first place, he does not seem to be in tune with what is happening today as far as security situation in Nigeria is concerned except somebody is trying to be mischievous. “Is it that the Vice President is not reading police and/or military reports on the number of; kidnappers, armed bandits, ritual killings and other forms of criminalities or what? I really find it difficult understanding who the Vice President is trying to please by indulging in such blatant lies about the security situation in Nigeria today. “Is the Vice President trying to tell Nigerians that the recent police report or claim that it arrested about 400 kidnappers, armed robbers, armed bandits terrorising some north-central states of Kaduna, Niger and Kogi axis are all lies? “The truth is that comparing 2010 security analysis and what is happening today, it is very alarming and we shouldn’t just pretend that all is well in Nigeria today. Instead of admitting that the situation is bad and doing the needful by tackling the security situation headlong through reversal of some harsh economic policies that has caused untold hardship to millions of Nigerians, create jobs for unemployed graduates roaming the streets and above all block entry points for armed bandits that gain unfettered access into Nigeria instead of complaining that the bandits migrate from north Africa as a very weak excuse which to me many Nigerians are not interest on hearing.”