Powered by RubiQube Ad Network OSOGBO – Osun state government has unveiled programme to attract Yoruba people from the diaspora to the state in a pilgrimage- like event. The pilgrimage, according to the Supervisor, Ministry of Home Affairs, Culture, Tourism and Environment in the state, Dr Adebisi Obawale holds between 10th and 25th August 2019. The programme, he explained was aimed at boosting economic potentials of the state and promote the rich cultural heritage of the Yoruba people. He noted that the state government decided to sponsor the programme tagged, “Karele Oodua” to sustain and promote the rich cultural heritage of the Yoruba people. He urged the people of the state to accord the visitors warm reception during the period of the pilgrimage. Governor Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola while speaking at event unveiling Karele Oodua Logo and Investiture of Karele Oodua Ambassadors organized by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Culture and Tourism,said the motive of Karele Oodua is to preserve the rich Yoruba cultural and boost the tourism potentials of the state. The governor, who was represented at the event by his deputy, Gboyega Alabi, expressed optimism that the programme would be an annual affair for bringing back sons and daughters of Oduduwa who have migrated to the outside world to their ancestral land to know more about the tradition of their fore bearers. He restated the resolve of his administration to continue to promote culture and enact policies that would make the state the tourism hub of the nation. The chairman, Technical Committee of Karele Oodua, Professor Adisa Ogunfolakan, said the initiative was designed to return the descendants of Oduduwa to their ancestral land with the aim to learn and see for themselves what the African Traditional Religion encapsulates. He stressed that the essence of the project is to also enhance the promotion of the rich Yoruba cultural heritage. In his keynote address at the unveiling programme, the pioneer National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Adebisi Akande blamed some ‘selfish and greedy’ Yoruba leaders for the retrogression and underdevelopment that the Yoruba race is witnessing at present. He claimed that some western leaders in military uniforms collaborated with the north to destabilize the Yoruba political strength, maginalize its people and expropriate their common patrimonies like University of Ife, the western Nigerian television and the Liberty Stadium in Ibadan According to Akande, the selfish Yoruba leaders also took part in annulling the June 12, 1993 presidential election won by Chief MKO Abiola to take him out of the Presidency of Nigeria. He noted that the beginning of the current republic, the same leaders, for reasons of greed and self aggrandizement, cringed to the north and the East for political influence to continue to degrade the authentic aspirations of the Yoruba people with a sermon that the Yoruba should join the mainstream politics of Nigeria. Akande noted that the consequence of the actions of these Yoruba leaders in connivance with their Northern and Eastern counterparts metamorphosed into the disunity of the country and the promotion of religious conflict which resulted in the migration of the Yoruba people to the diaspora. The Asiwaju of Ila-Orangun maintained that the action of the selfish leaders has put the nation into a situation of economic imbroglio and massive exploitation of the nations commonwealth. He said: “After the independence, for reasons of rank promotions, our leaders in military uniforms collaborated with the north to destabilize our political strength, to maginalize our people, to expropriate our patrimonies like the University of Ife, the western Nigerian television, the Liberty Stadium etc, and to hound our elites and youths into graves and into exile for another layers of Yoruba in diaspora.