The Managing Director of Polaris Bank, Tokunbo Abiru has described Small Medium and Enterprises (SMEs) as catalyst for economic growth. He also pledges the support of the bank to advance the growth of entrepreneurs and businesses that operate in that space. The Polaris Bank’s boss made the declarations while playing host to the Class 24 of Fate Foundation’s Emerging Entrepreneurs Program (EEP) at the bank’s corporate head office. Notably, Polaris Bank provided funding for four of the participants on the EEP programme. The EEP, a flagship training programme of FATE Foundation, is a highly interactive in-depth leadership and business management training aimed at equipping participants with the necessary tools and knowledge required to re-vision, grow and scale their businesses. Abiru, who received the delegation, welcomed the team and commended the 17 entrepreneurs of Class 24. The delegation represents key growth segments of the economy from different sectors such as: food, clothing, drinks, sustainability, manufacturing and real estate. He said: “It is interesting to note that some of you are already employing a minimum of five-eight staff in your respective businesses and some even more. For us however, as lenders and enablers of business, we must deliberately continue to look at your business segment and the likely areas we can continue to give support and encouragement.” On her part, Adenike Adeyemi, the Executive Director, Fate Foundation, after introducing the entrepreneurs, disclosed that the programme was on its ninth week. Adeyemi declared that the team had already covered a lot of grounds viz; strategy, financial management, cash flow management, talent management, outsourcing, risk and legal advisory. The ultimate plan she noted was to enable them develop a five-year strategic blueprint for their respective businesses. Also in attendance to receive the delegation from Fate Foundation were key executives of the Bank viz; Ayo Abina, Directorate Head, Southern Business and Femi Aribaloye, Divisional Head, Enterprise-wide Risk Management, among others.