Powered by RubiQube Ad Network On June 4, 1989, students and citizens in Beijing came under attack from the People’s Liberation Army. They had been protesting in Tiananmen Square for six weeks, supported by demonstrations in cities across China, calling for democracy and liberalism, an end to official corruption, a free press, workers’ rights and more. They had created a short-lived civic life free from the Chinese Communist Party and they invoked the legacy of earlier political movements like May Fourth from 1919. In some of their political rhetoric, they recalled too the Mao era, which more than any other has shaped China’s modern political imagery. ‘Tank Man’ trying to block a line of tanks heading to Tiananmen Square.
‘Tank Man’ trying to block a line of tanks heading to Tiananmen Square. CREDIT:AP Countless hundreds of people were killed in the military action, and it created the iconic image of the man in front of a column of tanks, one of the defining images of the 20th century. The Chinese government described the protest movement as a counter-revolutionary rebellion in the immediate aftermath, but in the decades since it has worked to erase June 4 from China’s collective memory entirely. Public discussion of it is impossible under China’s system of censorship and total information control. In consequence, remembering June 4 became a political act of resistance against the party-state system. It expressed the same shared hope that sustained the protesters themselves in 1989. On anniversaries around the world, keeping the memory of June 4 alive has meant to be ready for the moment in China when the date would be reckoned with and a new future set, and as China had gone through its extraordinary changes since 1989, that reckoning had seemed possible. A woman is caught between civilians and Chinese soldiers, who were trying to remove her from an assembly near the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, on June 3, 1989.
A woman is caught between civilians and Chinese soldiers, who were trying to remove her from an assembly near the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, on June 3, 1989. CREDIT:AP But it is now 30 years. Thirty years is time enough for careers and families to come and go. It is a point from which one looks back in reflection upon lives lived rather than forward in anticipation. And the truth, 30 years since a system committed to a singular ideological vision for China crushed the aspirations of citizens wanting something else, is that the party-state won. It won in 1989 with tanks and machineguns. It won again through the 1990s and 2000s by seeing the power of new technological instruments of information control to silence and erase the memory of June 4. The party-state understood that June 4 was not merely a crisis for Communist Party authority to be met, but an event from which vast new systems could be built out of the work of erasing it. For those outside China, remembering June 4 in fierce hope, it won most fearsomely through an alliance with a new post-Cold War international political economy in which global capital and liberal democratic governments have together normalised China as an emerging market and a rising power. Loading
Business and government, joined by universities and public institutions of all forms around the world, have seen in a rising China a way to align their corporate, policy, cultural and intellectual goals. Countless government delegations, investment missions, and university memoranda of understanding speak of opportunities, partnerships and market projections in a stilted and urgent language that does the labour of unseeing the tanks and soldiers in Tiananmen Square in 1989. In the 2010s, a potent global politics has emerged within the social media economy of hashtags, likes and shares mobilising social identities for the pursuit of justice and equality that might have taken on the legacy of June 4. But those politics remain sceptical of allies outside identity boundaries and unconcerned with the foundational ideas of democracy and modernity that motivated the June 4 protesters. Chinese becomes a social category to defend rather than a point of entry into history and politics of the People’s Republic of China. For all its force, the new millennial politics has left stranded the ageing activists of Tiananmen Square and their supporters. There will be commemorative events again for the anniversary of June 4 in 2019, offered as always in hope. But for the many thousands of people who lived through it and see the party-state that used such violence not only secure but fully part of the international system, a true reckoning is now too late, and they are left with private and silent grief.