Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Lagos – The introduction of prize money into sports has cosigned the spirit of sportsmanship, friendship and brotherliness to the background. And has, rather, engendered fierce competition among players/athletes where winning at all cost is the motive.  Prize money has also make players to strive for excellence by going the extra mile. In a world where fame plays a major role, and since sports celebrate only winners, it has also ensured that players/athletes strive to undo one another in order to attain glory. In track and field, gold medals and first place are the things athletes crave for. And because of the urge to attain such lofty goals, sense of justice, sympathy, and responsibility are not just words for them at least while competing. As a result of the desire to outdo one another, sport in the modern day has witnessed its fair share of gamesmanship and been blighted with ludicrous moments when players have tried to gain unscrupulously by making the most of situation. However, there are occasions in the history of sport, be it a team sport or individual sports when results take a back seat, when everybody comes out a winner and the sporting spirit triumphs above all. On such occasions the spirit of sportsman can truly triumph above all. Various instances are bound when players/athletes display the spirit of sportsmanship with the financial reward or fame taking the back seat. A good example of such touching sportsmanship happened at the Rio Olympics in 2016. Nikki Hamblin, an athlete from New Zealand, sacrificed her own Olympic race to help the US runner, Abbey D’Agostino, when she fell and seriously injured her leg. Nikki supported her rival, and they completed the race together and showed the real “Olympic spirit.” When it is a question of life and death, there are no rivals in sports. Oleg Gusev, a Dinamo football player, was accidentally hit by another player and lost consciousness on 30 Sunday March 2014. He nearly died as he swallowed his tongue, but Jaba Kankava, from the opposing team, rushed to the injured man and saved him from choking. Oleg might have died, but help was right on time. At times in sports, true heroes are never obsessed with victory. Stsiapan Papou, a sambo fighter from Belarus, beat his opponent, Amil Gasimov. But then he noticed that the Azerbaijani sportsman couldn’t get up, and so he carried him out of the ring on his shoulders. This incident happened during the Baku 2015 European Games. In one of the most well-recognised and famous acts of sportsmanship in modern day football in 1988, Italian Paolo Di Canio reconciled himself and others to the more beautiful side of the game with a sporting gesture that we won’t forget for some years to come. The fiery Italian’s outspoken nature had landed him in trouble on more than one occasion. Di Canio had been marred by a few moments of recklessness on the pitch which included a shove that sent referee Paul Alcock tumbling to the ground during his days playing for Sheffield Wednesday. However, two years later, the Italian showed the world that he had come full circle. While playing for West Ham at Goodison Park, Di Canio made us witnesses one of the most genuine moments of fair play that the world had ever seen. With the game poised at 1-1, and the clock striking 90 minutes, the Italian was presented with a golden opportunity to win the game after Everton goalie Paul Gerrard had collapsed whilst going out to challenge for the ball. With the goal wide open and the match beckoning to be won with a single touch, Di Canio elected to catch the ball instead and bring play to a halt to allow Gerrard treatment. The above examples show that players know well how difficult life can be and they don’t forget that help and support can make you win the most valuable prize; gratitude. So penultimate Saturday in Okpekpe, a rusty town in Etsako East local government area of Edo state, during the 7th edition of the Okpekpe International 10km Road Race, such humanitarian gesture played itself out when an athlete, Kenyan Simon Cheprot, abandoned his race to help a fallen compatriot-Kiprovo Kipkemoi- to cross the finish line before beckoning to the medical team for first aid. After the race, Cheprot became the man of the moment. That the course record was not broken did not matter. Even Dawit Fikadu, from Bahrain, the first non-African to win Okpekpe race was relegated to the background. Organisers of the event started the ball rolling announcing a gift of $2,000 to Cheprot for his sportsmanship before Adams Oshiomhole the National Chairman of the All progressive Congress (APC) added $3,000. “Cheprot’s action was very touching. For him (Cheprot) to forfeit his ambition to assist a fellow human being is something worth emulating,” said Oshiomhole, adding, “I will therefore donate my pension when put together is about $3,000 to him.” The Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, was also not left out rewarding him with $5,000. “This is the major highlight of road race,” he said, adding, “I want to round up the money by giving him $5,000.” Mike Itemuagbor, promoter of the race was also not left out, saying what Cheprot did was the true definition of sportsmanship. ”Simon (Cheprot) may not have fulfilled his ambition of becoming the first athlete (man or woman) to win two Okpekpe titles since 2013 when we began this race but he came to Okpekpe this year, ran and left as the hero. He did not win any medals but he won hearts. “While running, his colleague collapsed and on instinct, Simon picked him up; held tight to him and lifted him. That ended his race. But he saved a life. In 2016, Simon came first at Okpekpe; was second last year. Now, in 2019, he won HEARTS. But most of all, everybody hailed his “brother’s keeper” attitude. This is what is called sportsmanship. Simon gave proper consideration for fairness, ethics, respect, and a sense of fellowship with his competitors. He is our hero, he is the hero of the seventh edition of the race,” said Itemuagbor. Was he expecting such reward hence he did it? Emphatic no was his reply in an interview later that Saturday. “It is like the rules of the military. You cannot leave your brother, if injured, you have to carry him,” Cheprot said. “Secondly, in Jesus name, you cannot leave behind a friend and start celebrating. You are not doing good and you are not a winner,” he said. “You run for peace, unity and friendship, in short you run for humanitarian course at times. All these are not because of money. Money will come later. That is how my pastor taught me while growing up. “If I left him to die, how will I answer God if He asks me about him? Why did I not stop to help him? It was after he watched the scene that he realized that he has truly saved a life. “I just watched the race this evening (Saturday evening) on television. I saw him falling and rolling. I thought he was going to die, hence I assisted him.” His humanitarian assistance was not for financial gratification, noting that the $10,000 reward was good. His colleague at the media briefing later Saturday also appreciated him for his kind gesture. They all gave him a standing ovation when he was invited unto the high table. It was not only his colleagues; everyone in the hall gave him a standing ovation. While he would not comment on this, his regret was failing to win the race and become the first athlete to win the Road race twice. “I promised to win this year, but I developed stomach problem at 3.5km. I decided to drop from the leading pack and go slowly and see how the stomach responds. I am now okay. But in life you cannot be winning all the time. You win some and lose some. You have to appreciate what you’ve go. There is no ill feeling,” he said. This year’s race will not be his last as he plans to compere next year. “Yes I will come if invited.” Though, he would not promise to erase the course record of 28:35 minutes, but assured that he would try his best to erase it. “This is my fourth time running Okpekpe. I know the situation; the other guy (Kipkemoi) does not know the situation.” This might be the reason why Kipkemoi fell. He did not understand the course, been his first time running Okpekpe race. While thanking Cheprot for saving his life, he said that he did not take enough water during the race. “I didn’t take enough water. I missed water point five times. I collected water at 5km, but the water fell. I could not take the water because the pack was leaving me behind. Since I placed fifth at that instance I did not want miss out. I also missed water at 7.5km. So at the last hill, the group moved away from me, I closed the gap but they sped away from me again. At that point I was fifth, so I increased my pace at 9.5km I did not see well again and collapsed just before the finish line.” Honestly, Cheprot is a caring person. But I am happy that I finished the race.”