Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – In a fortnight, on Friday June 21, the 32nd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations, Africa’s most prestigious football tournament, will kick off in Egypt with Nigeria among the 24 countries whose flags will be hoisted. Nigeria’s participation, however, will be coming after missing out of the last two editions of the tournament, 2015 and 2017. Thus expectations are high that Nigeria should return with a bang, reminiscence of what happed when they won the title in 2013 in South Africa. Nigeria missed the 2012 edition, but returned to the continent in 2013 and won it in South Africa for the third time, having won the tournament 1980 and 1994 in 18 appearances. This is the why the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has also given the Gernot Rohr, the Super Eagles coach a target to ensure he guides the team for nothing but, the title. In this regard, Rohr, on Sunday June 9 released a 23-man list that will fight the battle for Nigeria and a critical look at the pedigree of the players is raising posers among football on whether the Super Eagles can be “super” enough to effectively represent Nigeria. Otherwise, a retrospective look at the name “Super” Eagles reminds us it was given to the team from the original “Green” Eagles, by former military Vice President, Augustus Aikhomu, believing that the “Super” is a force to ginger the team into positive action in any competition. But since 2013 that Nigeria won the trophy, it is still to be seen how super the Super Eagles are as they were not able to defend the title and could not even qualify for the past two editions of 2015 and 2017. Rohr in this regard has responded to the tournament in a most coy and apprehensive manner on the preparedness of Nigeria lifting the expanded tournament by saying victory will be dependent on the fittest among the participating teams of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. Rohr would not stick out his neck on the possibility of Super Eagles winning the title in Egypt, rather, saying, “We have to work hard. We have to be fit because only the fittest team has the chance to win the Nations Cup. “It will be very hot and there will be more games (with the expanded format of the tournament) to be played after a tough, long season for many of the players. “And so we have to be fit; we have to be very fit because of high temperature in Egypt which is between 30 to 40 degrees centigrade and it will be difficult to recover. That is why we have to prepare very well,” Rohr told reporters at the team’s training in Asaba, the Delta State capital ahead of the Zimbabwe friendly. This, therefore, cast some apprehensions on how far the team can go even as Nigerians are expecting nothing less than bringing the trophy home again. Rohr on resumption of Eagles duty and build to the qualifiers of 2018 World Cup and the 2019 AFCON told Nigerians that unfit players will not only be excused from the team, but that those not playing regularly and in the top divisions of their league will not be part of the team. But, on settling down for his job he seemed to have been told how the game is played in Nigeria by the “powers that be” and he humbled – with or without regular or first team appearance a player can find himself in the team. Funnily enough, the present crop of players in the Super Eagles have very few players playing in the top divisions of their countries of abode; among the top players, only the likes of Wilfred Ndidi; Moses Simon; William Ekong just to mention a few are in the top league. While the likes of Mikel Obi; Francis Uzoho; Oghenekaro Etebo and some others are playing in lower leagues. While some are in countries with obscure leagues in the likes of Odion Ighalo in China; Uzoho whom for lack of regular first team shirt in his second division team in Spain was loaned to a team, Anorthosis Famagusta in Cyprus. All of these variables have been a source of concern to Nigerians about the team in recent times as they have not been too convincing and consistent to get Nigerians confidence; nobody can predict the team; they can only be judged by the result of each game they play. However, aside Paul Onuachu; Chidozie Awaziem; Victor Osimhen and Samuel Chukweze, others are well known names whom to a great extent and have established themselves at local and international levels in the likes of Mikel Obi; Ahmed Musa; Moses Simon; Oghenekaro Etebo; Wilfred Ndidi among others. In the same vein, the preparatory friendly Super Eagles played against Zimbabwe saw the players displayed some flashes of brilliance though, the game ended goalless – it gave hopes that things can be better in spite of all odds. While Kelechi Iheanacho was the only popular Super Eagles player whose exclusion was conspicuous – even before the final list was released, Nigerians were angry at his invitation at all as he has lost form in and not commanding regular shirt in the first team in his club – Leicester City. In all sincerity, however, one player Nigerians are happy to have in the AFCON squad as expected and that can always deliver is, Ndidi of Leicester City– he has won the award of the club and Premier League severally as best marker even at the end of this season. It is also important to know that he has been very fit till date. Mikel Obi, the captain, who played for Middleborough last season, was prominent all the through the season and also expressed his happiness in returning to the team after a long absence since the World Cup; he believed that the team has the capacity to repeat the 2013 feat. According to him, “I’m really happy to be back and I’m happy with the progress made so far. I fitted in seamlessly (during training) because it was not a problem for me as I have great understanding of the team and the coach very well.” Levante forward, Simon Moses, is another player who has always justified his inviation from the beginning was not a fluke; hence he did not hide his feelings at the roll call of the final list over the weekend. The 23-year-old has expressed his happiness over the decision of Rohr, to have included him in the squad for the tournament; if for nothing, it is for the fact that he had suffered injury once upon a time. The injury excluded him from the Super Eagles squad in his supposed first-ever world Cup appearance in Russia 2018 and he told Brila FM recently, “It’s not easy to make the final 23-man list, am happy and we all are still fighting for a place in the first XI. “The next stage now is to fight for your position in the team and I believe the coach has the right players to put in the right place to make a good result.” That is the right place to end the conversation; there may be many obstacles on the way of the team, but with that spirit of determination and commitment of “never say die” of Nigerians, the Eagles can be “Super” again. The Squad Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho, Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Daniel Akpeyi. Defenders: Olaoluwa Aina; Abdullahi Shehu ; Chidozie Awaziem; William Troost-Ekong; Leon Balogun, Kenneth Omeruo, Jamilu Collins. Midfielders: Mikel John Obi; Wilfred Ndidi; Oghenekaro Etebo; John Ogu. Forwards: Ahmed Musa; Victor Osimhen, Moses Simon, Henry Onyekuru, Odion Ighalo; Alexander Iwobi, Samuel Kalu, Paul Onuachu , Samuel Chukwueze