Ilorin –  Police in Kwara State have arrested a housewife, Mrs. Yemi Samuel, who allegedly feigned being kidnapped.
The woman who is a university graduate was arrested in Ilorin where she hid to raise the false alarm said she cooked up the story to raise money for her husband and family.
Acting Police Public Relations Officer, Kwara State Command,Onyegbu Akakouvwho who paraded the woman before newsmen at the command’s headquarters in Ilorin wednesday said the woman resides at Kabba in Kogi State with her husband but came to hide in her parents’ rented apartment in Ilorin to alert that she has been kidnapped.
He said the woman on her own called her husband and husband’s family members that she had been kidnapped while claiming that her assailants directed her to make the calls for fear of their voices being recognised.
Akakou said the woman while claiming that the kidnappers took her to an unknown destination said the assailants were demanding for a ransom of N5m to release her.
He said the woman called later to say that the purported kidnappers have reduced their demand for ransom to N1m and that they asked that the money should be taken to Iluke town in the same local government within Kabba in kogi state.
The police spokesman said the husband, family members and well-wishers had arranged for the N500,000 to be paid before the police tracked down the woman in Kulende area of Ilorin.
The woman while being interviewed by newsmen confirmed the police narration but said she planned the kidnapped story to raise funds for her husband and their family.
The suspect who said she is a graduate of Mathematics explained that her family was being hit by hardship because her husband is unemployed.
She said that there are some well- to-do individuals in the husband’s family who have not been helpful to the husband in his plight and she thought if she comes up with the story of kidnapping they would come to the husband’s aid.
The police also disclosed the arrest of three other suspects who demanded N2 million from their boss to avert being kidnap.
Akakou stated “on 10/6/2019, one Sarafa Yusuf of Kebe compound, Ilota via Idofian Kwara state reported that on 9/6/2019 at about 1800 hours, he received a phone call on his GSM number 08029158831 from another GSM number 08102858972 who demanded N2 million from him or risked being kidnapped and killed.
“Based on this, the complainant made an arrangement with the Police on where to drop the money which was agreed to be dropped at Iyana Eleja junction via Idofian.
“It was later discovered that one Jenmo Usman, an employee to the complainant was the one that picked the polythene bag at 11:30 hrs of the same date at the above mentioned place which he was immediately arrested by the Police and his arrest led to the arrest of two other suspects namely: Iliasu Mohammed and Maude Umaru who are also workers of the complainant.”
The police spokesman said that all the suspects would soon be charged to court as soon as investigation is concluded on their respective cases.