Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Lagos State government on Saturday said it was positioning the state as a technology talent hub for the world through training and job placement. Dr Obafemi Hamzat, the deputy governor, stated this at an Engineering Summit Africa, organised by the engineering students of Lagos State University (LASU) in Lagos. The theme of the summit was, “Engineering, Technology and Economic Growth: A Global View.” Hamzat said the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration was convinced that an easy way to boost the Lagos economy was to invest in engineering, technology and innovation. According to him, the state government was aware that there was a skill deficiency in Africa, and the Sanwo-Olu administration was willing to close it with talents in Lagos. “Any responsible government will be alarmed by the number of youth unemployment and make sure it is a top priority. “This is why we are speaking with the private sector now on positioning Lagos as a technology talent pipeline for the world through training and job placement. “Our plan is to train 1,000 youths (working population) on how to code every year and produce entry and intermediate level skills set for the world to recruit from. “Lagos can reinvent itself; we can be the largest exporter of engineers and or technology. We can be the largest software exporter in the world; we can as well be the largest health technology developer. We can do it, if we are all invested and proactive,” he said Hamzat, who was represented by Radaq Ajala, Chairman, Odi-Olowo Local Council Development Area, Musin, lamented that globally, engineering appeared to be experiencing skills shortage. According to him, the type of engineering that students were studying did not always match the type of engineers required by specific countries. Jamiu Ijaodola, Executive Director, Engineering Summit Africa, said the programme was organised to share ideas on how engineering could develop various sectors of the country’s economy. According to him, the engineering profession is a repository of knowledge, technology and experience of key economic importance and it is vital to ongoing economic growth and development.