Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Bureau Chief Benin – Igbinedion University Okada, Edo State, Nigeria’s Premier Private University, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National Water Resources Institute, Kaduna for staff exchange, students’ training and collaborative research. Signing the MoU on behalf of the University, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Lawrence Ikechukwu Ezemonye, the Vice Chancellor of the University, while signing the MoU, noted that Igbinedion University had seen the need to start collaboration from the national level and extend to the global arena. The VC enumerated other areas of collaboration with the institute to include, exploring the possibility of establishment of UNESCO chair in one of the related departments in the university, exchange of publications, reports and other academic/technical information, joint organisation of conferences, workshops seminars and related activities, advocacy and public awareness campaign on water conferences as well as establishment of information systems and many more. According to him, the university had always championed educational revolution in the country and had maintained its goal of being the centre for knowledge and excellence. He stated that the University had discovered that the programs of the National Water Resources Institute were germane to its goals and aspirations and therefore decided to collaborate with it. He noted that the university was not only interested in the availability of water, but in water quality and eco-toxicology. The Vice-Chancellor however informed the delegates of the institute, led by its Executive Director, Prof. Emmanuel Aduna, that presently the University has four ICT Academics fully established, to put the University on leading path. He also listed the academics to include CISCO Academy, Microsoft Academy, Huawei Academy and Microtik Academy, which he said was all in the bid to achieve the university’s smart campus goal. Prof. Ezemonye assured that Igbinedion University would take full advantage of the knowledge, competences and experience of the institute for the benefit of staff and students. The Vice Chancellor also disclosed that the University was now collaborating with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigerian (ICAN), Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria and Nigerian Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators among others. The University, he further said has also established a centre for Presidential Studies, a Centre for Contemporary Security Affairs, Entrepreneurship Centre, Centre for climate change and Sustainable Development Goals. On his part, the Executive Director of the Institute, Professor Emmanuel Adanu, who signed on behalf of the institute, said the National Water Resources is presently collaborating with some international organisations and some public institutions in Nigeria. He expressed joy, that Igbinedion University was the first private institution to seek a linkage with the institute and therefore would be glad to assist the university in the areas of capacity building and staff exchange. According to him, availability of quality water was still a problem in some part of the country, adding that pollutant has remained a challenge in getting quality water in the Nigeria.