Powered by RubiQube Ad Network There are fears in certain quarters that the spate of insecurity in the country may affect the cultivation of rice across the country. With the sacking of farmers from their farms being recorded daily, many believe that the country may soon begin to experience food shortage, especially rice. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU AND IKECHI NZEAKOR, write that despite the fear, there are still hope for Nigerians. Rice has become one of the leading food crops in the world and the most consumed staple food in Nigeria. The demand for rice in the country is increasing daily by individuals regardless of their culture, gender or status in society. The increase in demand also cuts across the geo-political zones of the nation. Statistics show that Nigeria is one of the largest consumers and producers of rice in West Africa sub-region producing, over 3.7 million tonnes of milled rice on the average annually. This has made Nigeria the second largest producer of the grain in Africa after Egypt and listed among the top 16 producers of rice in the world with her local production valued at N684 billion ($1.9 billion). However, the policy of the Federal Government that favour growing of local rice through many incentives has led to many people taking to the cultivation of rice and improvement in the method of cultivation of the commodity. This has also led to massive increase in the homegrown rice and drastic reduction in quantity of rice imported into the country. What this means is that a huge percentage of the rice consumed in the country is grown locally and this has saved the nation massive foreign exchange. However, the massive gains the country has made in the area of rice cultivation is being threatened by the activities of Boko Haram, herdsmen, bandits and other violent non-state actors, who are preventing, discouraging and disallowing framers from going to go to the farm. This is because to cultivate rice, the type of land, soil properties, geographical and ecological factors are put into consideration as not all the varieties of rice can do well in every geographical zone. This is why farmers go for the high-quality seeds, which can produce a bountiful harvest of rice with same seed size and improved germination by 50 per cent at harvest time. The planting season for rice is mid-March to mid-April and it takes an average of three to four months before harvest. There is lot of process involved in the cultivation of rice from planting to consumption. These include seed selection, land preparation, planting and crop management amongst others. By preventing farmers from going to the farm and planting the crop, stakeholders and experts are predicting that there will crisis in the rice value chain in the country. According to them, rice is best grown in lands with moderately high water holding-capacity or simply put, swampy lands; heavy and muddy soils that can hold water are most desirable. These are the areas in Nigeria that are hardest hit by the insurgency, terrorism and violent activities that have held the Nigerian state hostage in the past decades. According to agricultural experts, it is best to prepare the lands for rice farming during the dry season before it begins to rain to avoid anything that could hinder the growth, quality or quantity of rice that should be harvested. Nigerian farmers who do this did not do it because most of them are afraid of going to the farm, but because of the fear of terrorists, herdsmen, bandits and other violent actors in the country. Indeed a good percentage of the farmers in the conflict-affected areas are now in Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps were they depend on food rations to survive. Most IDPs and poor households in the states that are mostly affected remain heavily dependent on assistance, as well as some petty trading and limited casual labour opportunities. Staple food prices remain well above average, making food access even more difficult for households with little income-earning opportunity. IDPs in camps or camp-like settings have particularly limited access to land and agricultural labor opportunities. For Adeniyi Alade, a rice trader based in the Ogba area of Lagos State, if the conflicts that are ravaging rice producing areas in the country is not arrested on time, there will be scarcity of the product, leading to increase in price of the commodity, adding that this will lead smugglers taking advantage of the situation to fill the void. According to Obinna Agu, the situation has already led to increase in the price of the commodity, adding that smugglers have increased their activities in the Ogun State border areas of the country. He also called on the government to end the conflict so that farmers can return to the farm. But to the National President, RIFAN, Aminu Goronyo, while speaking on the availability of locally produced rice in the market and its affordability, there is no cause for alarm as he assured Nigerians that current insecurity challenges would not stop rice production in the country. Goronyo in his assertion about the raging insecurity in parts of the country, especially in the north, also stated that the situation would not deter rice farmers from other parts of the country to continue production of the commodity. He said: “Of course, insecurity is not everywhere. It won’t be possible to have insecurity virtually everywhere. There are areas that there is insecurity but the major areas where rice is being produced are free from insecurity. “There is no state in Nigeria where rice is not being produced. For example we have our outreach in Ebonyi State, we have another one in Cross River, rice is being produced there. We have another in Abia. Rice is being produced there. In Ondo, rice is being produced there. In Nasarawa, in Sokoto, in Kebbi rice is being produced. “The government is doing everything possible because the issue of insecurity is a government issue and the government is doing everything possible to make sure we have security in the country. “We have about 24 mills in this country that are integrated and about 210 medium rice mills; we have 3,800 small mills in the country that mill rice to international standard.” He further added that, “Among these mills there are those that can produce up to 100 metric tonnes per day, there are others that produce 50 metric tonnes, those that produce 20 metric tonnes and while some five metric tonnes, it depends on their size and capacity and they are everywhere in the country. “The local rice is more in the market it us about 70-80 per cent, the ‘foreign disease’ they brought it in through the informal borders through smuggling, they use motorcycles to bring it into the country. We are producing between 7.5 to 8 million metric tonnes annually right from 2016.” He also disclosed that rice farmers under the Anchor Borrowers Scheme were fully insured by the Nigeria Agricultural Insurance Corporation, NAIC, so even they had their farms flooded they are covered. “The issue of flood is an act of God that nobody can stop. The only thing we can do is that farmers insure their businesses. “Quite a number of the farmers understand that it is a government insurance which is Nigeria Agricultural Insurance Corporation, NAIC, and all the programmes under the Anchor Borrower are being insured by NAIC”, he said. Nigeria has a rice importation bill of N1 trillion annually before the introduction of the Anchor Borrowers Scheme (ABS) by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in 2015. The CBN’s Anchor Borrowers’ Programme which has emerged to become the most successful of all government intervention programmes in recent history was launched by President Buhari in 2015. Prior to introduction of the ABP, allocation of foreign exchange to the importation of items such as rice, wheat, milk, tomato, fish, cotton and fertilizer among others, had contributed greatly to the depletion of the nation’s foreign reserves, especially in the face of low oil revenue resulting from falling oil prices. The implication was rising unemployment and escalating food imports. This prompted the CBN, under the leadership of Godwin Emefiele to shift from concentrating only on price, monetary, and financial system stability to act as a financial catalyst in specific sectors of the economy particularly agriculture; in a bid to create jobs on a mass scale, improve local food production, and conserve scarce foreign reserves. The apex bank had set aside a portion of the N220billion Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund to finance agricultural projects at a single-digit interest rate of nine per cent. Chiefly among the aims was to create economic linkages between over 600,000 smallholder farmers and reputable large-scale processors with a view to increasing agricultural output and significantly improving capacity utilization of integrated mills. Noticeably, the gap between the levels of local rice production and domestic consumption has been reduced within a space of three years. Perhaps more than any other institution in Nigeria, the CBN has demonstrated a passionate commitment to the support of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the Agribusiness value chain through its various development finance interventions and schemes. Other areas the bank has distinguished itself also include: Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending     (NIRSAL); Real Sector Support Facility (RSSF); The Nigeria Electricity Market Stabilization Facility (NEMSF); Entrepreneurship Development Centres (EDCs); Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme (YEDP); Export Stimulation Facility (ESF); Agri-business/Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS), Paddy Aggregation Scheme (PAS); Accelerated Agricultural Development Scheme (AADS); and the very successful Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) which has recorded an outstanding success in terms of reducing the nation’s food import bills and boosting the income levels and financial capacity of local farmers. At the last count, 200,000 smallholder farmers from 29 states of the federation are already benefitting from the N43.92 billion released through the CBN and 13 participating financial institutions to fund the agricultural programme. As at October 2018, 2.5 million direct jobs had been created through implementation of the Anchor Borrowers’ scheme, according to President Buhari. About 1 million more indirect jobs are believably created also. A total number of 862,069 farmers cultivating about 835,239 hectares of land, cultivating 16 different commodities including Rice, Wheat, Maize, Cotton, soya-beans, Poultry, Cassava and Groundnuts, tomato, in addition to fish farming had already benefited from the programme. The initiatives were undertaken in close collaboration with the states.From Kebbi, Ebonyi, Anambra and Cross Rivers to Kano States – among other parts of the federation, the ABP has given a good boost to local rice production, creating jobs and empowering many across the country. Investigation revealed that large chunk of the farming communities engaged predominantly in rice and wheat farming taking advantage of only 36.46 per cent of the estimated land area out of 37,698.69km. This indicates that there is still large expanse of land that can be converted to agricultural use. According to 1968 FAO survey , the state is endowed with 420,000 hectares of Fadama land out of which 170 ,000 hectares have shallow extractable aquifers suitable for year round irrigation. Kebbi has also sizable water bodies which support irrigation and fisheries activities with 50 per cent of the total Fadama land on the banks of Rima River, 34.7 per cent on river Niger, 4.1 on Zamfara River while remaining 11.2 per cent are on minor tributaries. These endowments have made the state a major supplier of rice, fish, groundnuts oil and vegetables especially onions.For instance, the success story of the Anchor Borrowers programme in Kebbi State is glaring in spite of some challenges it faced. It has recorded an achievement that surpasses the one million tonne of rice production target in the second year of introducing the scheme. This was as a result of many people including civil servants, women and youths who went back to the farms and engaged in rice production. Another major achievement was the springing of private rice mills in the state paving the way for more investment flow. Both Big and mini rice mills have been established in the state all owned by private investors. The state can boast of two large modern rice mills now, the Labana Rice Mills and Wacot. This is apart from many mini rice mills being established by private individual farmers across the state. It could be recalled that the state witnessed the commissioning of Labana Rice Mills Limited by the former Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Audu Ogbeh. The rice mill provides high quality parboiled rice for not only Kebbi but Nigerian populace. It was specially designed with sophisticated machinery from Switzerland. The massive rice farming under the CBN Anchor Borrowers programme has turned around the lives of many farmers to becoming rich. In fact, in the second year of the programme, majority of the Muslim faithful who went to Saudi Arabia on Holy Pilgrimage to Mecca were farmers who got their money from the sale of their rice. Apart from that, many other farmers got married or boost their businesses with the proceeds they got from their rice. All these are clear testimony of how many farmers in Kebbi became millionaires from the rice farming venture. While addressing members of the Finance Correspondents Association of Nigeria (FICAN) who were in Ebonyi for a workshop, Governor Dave Umahi said: “We want to domesticate rice production in Ebonyi State and we are going beyond individual production. We are now beginning to see how we can institute what we call rice mega cities in each local government area where by we have 5,000 hectares of land dedicated for rice production in each of our local government areas. “Already, we have four rice mills that are in operation and you also see private people that are milling with their traditional machines. We are planning to cultivate 100,000 hectares of land to produce 400,000 tonnes of rice in the next two years.” Stakeholders in the maritime sub-sector of the nation’s economy have warned that the looming crises in rice production in the country coupled with dearth in finance of local rice farmers will further escalate smuggling of rice into the country Stakeholders, thus implore the government to facilitate loans for the farmers as well as ensure there is improved security in the country to thrive. They argued that the hitherto massive smuggling of rice into the country, no doubt was the climax of economic sabotage as this act by unscrupulous and diehard smuggler was not only shortchanging the country in revenue, but also killing the local industries and causing high level unemployment. They equally argued that the present insecurity in the country, occasioned by incessant attacks by the Boko Haram insurgents, which have displaced most communities in the North East, some of them rice producing communities is not helping matter. Aside that, the continued farmers and herdsmen feud in various communities pose serious security challenge as some farmers in the affected areas no longer go far for fear of attack by the Fulani herdsmen. These and other reasons coupled with over 1,400 illegal routes along the Nigeria border with other neigbouring countries will continue to encourage smuggling. Ismail Aniemu, a maritime analyst, said the best thing the government can do is to subside rice. He said instead of subsidizing the fuel, the government should rather subsidize rice, According to him, Kebbi State, a major rice producing state is facing a lot of challenges in meeting up the demand of the populace as the price of locally produced rice is still on the high side. He argued that as a result of this, smuggling of foreign par boiled rice from the neighbouring Niger Republic is still commonplace in the area. He said that except the government subsidizes price of locally produced rice, give robust incentives to farmers who perform exceptionally well in rice production, crises in local rice production will continue. He maintained that the prices of locally produced rice is not crashed down through government subsidy, the quest for foreign rice will continue and smuggling of product also will continue unabated, no matter the security apparatus put in place as there are numerous unapproved routes smugglers use to bring in their wares. Towards the end of 2018, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) declared that a total of 238,094 x 50kg of rice was seized between January and November last year. A Call For Rice Subsidy Another stakeholder, Mrs Toju Johnson, said: “first and foremost, the local rice, as we have always said, is not enough. They have not been able to bring enough rice to feed only Lagos State out of 36 states with Abuja, making 37. They don’t have the capacity to feed Lagos State. “I have been to Kebbi that is adjudged to be the state with the highest rice production in Nigeria. Foreign rice is still coming into Kebbi from Niger Republic. “What I think government should do is that the subsidy they are giving in the oil sector they should do for the local rice. They should subsidise local rice, by so doing they will discourage Nigerians from eating foreign rice. “If they subsidise it to the extent that a bag of locally grown rice is sold below N10,000, those bringing in foreign rice will lose interest in the market because they would not be able to ship it, pay for the insurance and freight and still come and sell it at the amount it is being sold presently. “I believe that if government should pay the kind of subsidy they are paying on petroleum for locally grown rice for only one year, it will go a long way to increase local production and discourage appetite for foreign rice. “Remember that rice is being harvested four times in a year, so if we are saying that we are growing capacity for rice and we have been saying it for the past four years and still have not gone higher than where we are, then we are deceiving ourselves. “If government is saying that they are going to inspect rice farmers and will not give them loans “If you are a rice farmer and you are able to show a certain degree of harvest that impresses the government, in fact, they will not just give you loan, they will dash you money. And when they do that, it means that you will start selling the rice at a cheaper price or government will buy up the stock and determine the price for the people, say maybe six or seven thousand naira per bag. That will just kill the foreign market rice. “So, subsidy is my own suggestion because they cannot succeed in closing the border. If they like, let them man people there, rice will still come in through the border. If they like, let them close the border completely, rice will still come in. The bush paths are so wide and porous. They enter through motorcycle not vehicle. One motorcycle can move rice 100 times a day with four bags per trip. If one motorcycle moves four bags 100 times a day, you know how many bags that will be. That will be  400 bags.