Uyo – The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), have declared that the agency arrested 412 suspects for being in possession of hard drugs between June 2018 and June 2019 in Akwa Ibom state.
The agency also disclosed that a total of 322. 5kg of drugs were seized and 20 convictions were recorded within the period under review.
The State’s Commander of NDLEA, Mr Mohammed Sokoto, disclosed this in Uyo, yesterday while briefing newsmen on the activities of the agency to mark the 2019 International Year against Drug Abuse and Trafficking.
Sokoto explained that of the total number of suspects apprehended, 56 were female while 356 were male, adding that the command during the period rehabilitated 10 persons and integrated them back to the society.
The number of persons involved in drug abuse, according to him, keep increasing in the state due to peer pressure. He therefore warn parents to monitor their children on the type of company they keep.
In his words “The effects of drug abuse are devastating, as drugs have social, physical and psychological consequences on the individual user, the immediate family and general society.
“The social effects are social unrest, political violence, disruption of election process, drop out of school, disobedience to parents and authorities, cultism, rape, armed robbery, burglary and theft.
“The psychological problems include injury to the brain, psychomotor disorder leading to the psychosis and mental disorder among others,” Sokoto said.
He assured that the command will continue in its sensitisation exercise to secondary schools in the state to inform them early on the consequences of drug abuse.
Sokoto blame the inadequacies of the command on some challenges confronting the Agency in the state, such as inadequate monitoring vehicles and other logistics.
“The above successes were not without challenges. Perhaps the greatest challenge is inadequate logistics, both material and financial resources to optimise our operational capacity.
“The Command has only one serviceable Hilux vehicle to transverse all the 31 Local Government Areas of the state.” He said.
He therefore appealed to Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state to assist the command with vehicles to complement the existing serviceable vehicle for operational efficiency and effectiveness.