Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Five suspects, including three alleged personnel of the Nigeria Air Force, said to have taken part in the December 2017, attack on the Abuja farm house of Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), are currently in police net. During the attack, a police sergeant was killed, while the attackers carted away two police rifles. The suspects, identified as Franklin Ochife, Inalegwu Omikpa, Awua Theophanous, Sunday Paul and Vincent Michael, were arrested separately recently by operatives of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) Crime Tracker learnt that the suspects claimed they were enforcing the Federal Government whistle blowing policy, aimed at recovering stolen and misappropriated government funds. They were said to have further claimed they did not know the farm belongs to the EFCC chairman at the time they invaded it. IRT source disclosed that the suspects claimed they acted on a tip off, that the owner of the farm, is a top government official, who allegedly stole government money and kept the loot in septic tanks in his farm. It was further disclosed that they tried getting the EFCC involved, but that an official of the Commission, warned they should be sure that looted fund was actually buried in that farm in order that EFCC does not become an object of mockery, should the commission fail to achieve positive result when it raids the farm. They were said to have further explained to the police that they decided to break into the farm, to find out if looted money was there. Franklin Ochife, 38, a native Otupko, Benue State, was said to have confessed thus:   “In November 2017, there was this bike rider living close to Magu’s farm. He informed me there was huge amount of money buried in a septic tank in the farm.  He asked if I knew how to contact whistle blowers about the money in the septic tank.  With this information, I became convinced that there was money hidden in the premises.  With the whistle blowing policy still active, I believed I would get ten percent which would be a very huge amount of money.  So I contacted my friend, Inalegwu, who advised me that we should  use the military to recover the money and  expose it to the government. “He then brought one Cassidy and three soldiers and we had a meeting at Maraba and we went to the farm house in two vehicles.  I alighted from the vehicle because I reside close to that house, then I came down and started monitoring events. While I was there, I received a call from Peter- the bike rider. He asked me to tell my people in the farm house to leave because one of the mobile men posted to guard the house had noticed what was going on and had called him to take him to the police station with his motorcycle to call for re-enforcement. So I quickly called Inalegwu, informed him about the development and left the spot.  I didn’t see them again until the next day when Peter called to inform me that one of the policemen guarding the farm was dead.” Inalegwu, said to be from Ohimini area of Benue State, who claimed to be 35-year-old businessman, was said to have told the police that his friend who works in Magu’s house informed him about the deal. “I then contacted my friend, an Air force personnel known as Anwa. I explained to him. Before then, I told my friend Cassidy and he advised that if we inform the EFCC, the matter will die completely. Cassidy said he had a friend known as Vincent who is also an Airforce personnel who would assist us in securing the place so that the authorities will come and see the money.  Anwa then said that he had a friend known as Sunday, who had worked with DSS in the past and that he could bring him in. But that we have to be careful and ensure that the money was truly in that farm before breaking into the compound. On 12 December 2017, we went to the compound in two vehicles, then Anawa and his friend, entered into the compound and they came out angrily and when I entered I saw a policeman tied to the ground and there was also another civilian security guard coming, then we also arrested him, then Vincent started breaking the septic tank and I also received a call from Franklin that another police who was outside was calling the police to the farm house. So, while we were leaving, two police rifles were on the ground and Cassidy and Vincent took the rifles. They said they will sell the rifles and give us our own share.  I didn’t know that the policeman who was tied was dead. I received a call from Franklin saying that one of the policemen was dead and I saw the story on the news.  On January 25 2018, I was on my way back from church and I was arrested so I led the police to start picking others one after the other.”