LAGOS – Opposition has continued to mount against the desire of Godswill Akpabio, former governor of Akwa- Ibom state to get a slot in President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet with various interest groups in the state calling on the President not give the slot of Akwa Ibom to Akpabio, who represented Akwa Ibom North West senatorial district in the eighth National Assembly. Akpabio, who was the Minority Leader in the eighth National Assembly defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) shortly before the 2019 general elections. His ambition to return to the Senate however suffered a setback as lost the election to Dr. Chris Ekpenyong, a former Deputy Governor of the state. Issues As Akpabio Chants War Songs In Akwa Ibom It has been rumoured that the Presidency may give the ministerial slot to him as compensation. However, many concerned sons and daughters of the state have opposed the move, saying they have passed a vote of no confidence as their likely representative in President Buhari’s cabinet. Speaking in a recent chat with newsmen, Dr. Asuquo Edidem Etim, Executive Vice President, Ibom Integrity & Servant Leadership Culture Initiative gave reasons why he, alongside other critical stakeholders in the state are opposed to Akpabio’s choice as a ministerial nominee. Some of the reasons are Akpabio’s ongoing probe with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), profligacy in public office and hunger for power, his intolerance of opposing views, intolerance of opposing views coupled with his defection and APC’s loss in the just concluded elections. According to Etim “The Principles of democracy, anchored on the fundamental human rights, as guaranteed by the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria, protect our rights as individuals or group, to freely express our freedom of choice as regards the character of any person we would want to represent Akwa Ibom in the coming cabinet. The same goes for our rights to belong to any group especially when the objective of the group is for a better Akwa Ibom, a stronger and united APC in the state and a corrupt free, transparent Federal government under the astute leadership of our mentor, President Buhari”. “For instance, Section 40 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 provides that every person shall be entitled to freely associate with other persons, and in particular he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his interests. Thus we don’t require the authority of state party secretariat to exercise our constitutionally guaranteed freedom of choice and association under a democratic government”. “Our key interest in this regard is to ensure that President Buhari’s second tenure is remarkably better than the previous one, essentially, by the choice of personnel he recruits to assist him actualize his Next Level programmes. The few controversies around his government in the first term, as we noted in our letter, were apparently as a result of the unethical or insensitive actions of some of the former ministers, whose conducts were contrary to Mr. President’s renowned discipline and conservative nature”. “We make bold to state that our complaint to Mr. President echoes the inner thoughts of many patriotic and loyal members of our dear party in Akwa Ibom and the entire South South states for obvious reasons among which was that Senator Akpabio’s haughty attitude and public utterances against the party and the person of the president in 2011 and 2015 general elections undoubtedly eroded the goodwill and sympathy APC had enjoyed in Akwa Ibom state before his defection to APC. “A leader who is worth it does not volt-face, speak from both sides of the mouth, does not speak just for the podium and does not leave behind insensitive and negative trails but always conscious that such will trail him tomorrow. Akpabio is guilty of all these and such a character remains unfit for ministerial appointment. “The following verifiable factcheck will help to ascertain the objectivity and veracity of our earlier assertions as contained in our letter to Mr. President, which is that: Senator Akpabio is still under probe of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)), hence unfit for ministerial nomination in the Next Level government. “That he was a destabilizing factor in APC in Akwa Ibom, which contributed to the party’s poor outing at the recent election; that his profligacy in public office and hunger for power corrupts his sense of propriety which makes him ignore norms, standards and traditions and that his flippancy and haughty public utterances still hurt our party till date. “Akpabio had during his defection to APC claimed that he was no longer under investigation. But this was swiftly denied by former spokesman for the EFCC, Mr Wilson Uwujaren, who in a text message to Punch emphatically stated that Akpabio’s corruption case was still ongoing, according to Punch report of May 28, 2019, under the caption, “We haven’t closed case against Akpabio”. “EFCC does not close cases or give clearance to anybody,” Wilson had said. “And President Buhari during an interview aired on Arise TV said he has not told EFCC to halt the former governor’s probe. “I don’t think Akpabio, when he moved to the APC, that I said he should be left alone. I cannot remember asking the EFCC, the ICPC, the police or anybody to spare any corrupt person or incompetent person,” he said. Why We Don’t Want Akpabio Named Minister — A/Ibom APC Elders Speaking further he said while at a funeral ceremony in Aguobu-Owa, Ezeagu Local Government area of Enugu State on August 21, Senator Akpabio declared that APC’s takeover of Akwa Ibom in 2019 would be as total as the 1940 invasion of Poland by the German dictator, Adolf Hitler. His words: “Recently, I had an occasion in Akwa Ibom State and this is what happened: I went just to make a floor declaration; others do it in the social media; others just sit in their offices; some do it by text messages that they have changed platform, what we call party. But in my own, I just decided to do it in an uncommon way because they call me uncommon transformer. It was watched in 59 countries and somebody asked what happened there, and I said just how it happened in Poland”. “When they asked Hitler’s minister of information how was the war in Poland? He said Warsaw saw war and war saw Warsaw. I will say that in the Ikot-Ekpene arena, when I stepped out, this is my first function after that, Warsaw saw war and war saw Warsaw. We can’t talk politics in the church but in 2019 Warsaw shall see war and war shall see Warsaw. The return will be victory.” “The result of this very insensitive Warsaw declaration and his subsequent boast that he would capture the whole of south south states for our party without any visible strategy or networking, resulted in untold resentment against APC and the result was a dismal electoral result. Also the over 15 video clips on Akpabio’s name calling and denigrating utterances against Buhari and APC in the 2011 and 2015 elections were regularly broadcast by the PDP government in the State on TV and radio throughout the campaign period. This singular act of indiscretion robbed our party of the sympathy of many”. “He came into APC with no recognizable political structure or any meaningful support base of any value. It was expected that a politician of that stature would be able to at least command the loyalty and following of at least half of the members of the House of Assembly, but he came almost empty handed with a lot of distracting noise. The three members that later joined him came with a huge baggage of controversy that robbed off on the party negatively. He couldn’t even convince his own cousin who was a commissioner in the state to join him. The situation was that bad”. “So, when PDP cleared all the 13 NASS seats, including his own, in Akwa Ibom, won 20 of the 21 House of Assembly seats in the state and retained the governorship of the state, it became very clear that we had actually overrated his electoral value and influence. The huge repugnance against the person of Akpabio and his politics robbed the party of its popularity and victory”. “In view of the above reasons, we hereby reinstate that based on our desire to have a representative in the coming cabinet of President Buhari, who would enjoy the support of majority of Akwa Ibom people irrespective of political background, and for equity and fairness in a party that is emerging from a depressing electoral experience, in the state, we need a unifying factor, not an overlord with a humongous ego and sense of entitlement. This is our simple, selfless and objective request from Mr. President” Etim said. EFCC To Go After Those Using POS Machines Illegally