A patriotic call has been made to the President Muhammadu Buhari – led Federal Government to, as a matter of priority, create an enabling environment for more mass cultivation and production of home-grown rice. This call, if heeded, will go a long way in helping to revive the country’s struggling economy. Making the call in a recent chat with Daily Independent was Mr. Sunday Onomon Ijekhuemen, a wholesale foodstuff dealer and Chief Executive Officer of Topman Progress Resources Limited, Isheri Olofin in Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos  State. According to the native of Esan North Local Government Area of Edo State, Nigeria has more than enough fertile land for massive production of rice such that if well utilised, it would not only take the youth off the chain of unemployment but also boost the nation’s Gross Domestic Product appreciably. Ijekhuemen posited that: “Our potential for rice production in this country, if effectively converted, can definitely lift us out of our current economic woes. In fact, if the government could just give rice farming the right priority of attention, the product alone is enough to revive the nation’s economy”. The businessman who described himself as an expert in the wholesale distribution of all edible food items since 1982 noted, however, that a large scale production of rice should not be left to the government alone; stressing that it would require collective efforts of the citizenry with adequate back up of the government. “I believe that if we pull our resources together to explore our potential in agriculture, particularly the production of rice, Nigeria can conveniently be the father of rice-producing nations in the whole African Continent and thereby compelling the whites to form a long queue for its rice. “All we require is a good working partnership between the governments at all tiers and the rich so that the requisite farm machinery for rice cultivation, harvesting and subsequent processing will be enhanced for all the youth who are interested in rice farming”; Ijekhuemen admonished. Rice, according to him, is one edible food with a long lifespan given the right preservative method. The Electrical/Electronic engineer-turned foodstuff dealer, however, bemoans the non-availability of original preservatives for foodstuff generally in Nigeria. “We want the government to help us in this area so that our people in the business will no longer run at a loss”; he pleaded.