AWKA – Chidi Livinus Udemadu, the lawmaker representing Ihiala 1 State Constituency in the just-constituted Assembly State House of Assembly, has said that he would not contest the decision of the leadership of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) on the choice of principal officers for the 7th legislature. The names of the principal officers were read out by the Speaker of the Assembly, Uche Okafor, at its inaugural ceremony. Udemadu, who is currently serving his second term as the representative of Ihiala 1 State Constituency in the newly inaugurated state Assembly, disclosed in an exclusive interview with our correspondent at the state Assembly complex, Awka that the party’s decision was supreme as it concerned those it selected to occupy the positions as principal officers. He stated that he was not perturbed by the development because granted that he was elected on the platform of APGA, they were not in the state Assembly to represent their respective political parties but to represent the entire citizenry irrespective of political affiliations. The lawmaker said: “the party has come up with the people they want to lead and I cannot question their authority. Even if I say I don’t like it, I cannot change it. All of us are competent enough to do it. Some of us who are now ordinary members are competent and credible. Those who are selected as principal officers are also credible and competent. So side by side, we will work together to ensure that Anambra State moves forward.” He said irrespective of the development, he would serve out his second term under APGA and that he would also not initiate any clandestine move to leave the All Progressive Grand Alliance for any reason whatsoever. Udemadu, however, maintained that the afore-stated notwithstanding, they would not hesitate to raise objections where necessary for the betterment and benefits of ‘Ndi-Anambra’, pointing out that they were not in the legislature to represent themselves or a particular individual but the entire Anambra people.