Lokoja – Senator Smart Adeyemi, a former Kogi West Senatorial District representative at the Red Chamber of the National Assembly, has threatened to work against his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) if the incumbent Governor Yahaya Bello is denied ticket to return for a second term as the state governor. Senator Adeyemi issued out this threat on Thursday when the Progressive Governors Forum paid a visit to Governor Yahaya Bello in Lokoja. Adeyemi told the delegation from the Progressive Governors Forum  which included the  Kebbi State Governor, Alhaji  Atiku Bagudu ,Yobe State Governor, Alhaji Maimala Buni as well as the immediate past Governor of Bauch State,                                                                   Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar  asking them to  take the message back to the National Secretariat of APC that they should give the party ticket to Governor Bello for continuity sake. “We in Kogi State have seen a young, vibrant, detribalised personality in Governor Bello and we have unanimously resolved to work for his re – election come November 16, 2019. “We believe in him. He has treated us fairly. He gave everyone an equal opportunity to develop and participate in the governance in the state.” Adeyemi said. Meanwhile, the factional Chairman of APC in the state, Alhaji Hady Ametuo has collapsed the former state executive committee members into the present exco led by Alhaji Abdullahi Bello and loyal to the state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello. Ametuo who spoke at the stakeholders’ forum said that for three and half years, his exco members had been fighting his brother, the governor, but had now decided to bury the differences, so as to move the state and APC forward. According to him, “I worked hard to build this party, I worked hard for this party to win the state. So, I cannot open my eyes and allow PDP to win the state  in the next election” Ametuo said that he and all members of his former cabinet would work to ensure victory for the party in November. Reacting, Governor Yahaya Bello commended the forum for the visit; stating that he had done a lot to secure the state as he had made security the priority of his administration. The Governor added that the people of the state were hitherto divided along ethnic lines but he had been able to unite the state which had culminated in the even development of the state.