After several references to actors in the Zamfara, Kaduna and other emerging kidnap and killing fields, the Nigerian Army has come out to link recent upsurge in insurgencies in the country to handiwork of a resurgent Boko Haram, backed by remnants of ISIS in the sub region who now go by the name of Islamic State in West Africa Province, ISWAP and specifically backed by some disgruntled politicians. The army further alleged that the insurgents now have multiple supports from local politicians unhappy with turn of electoral results in the country, state and non-state actors looking to scuttle the planned May 29 hand over date when President Mohammadu Buhari is to begin a second term of four years in office.
Though Army would not disclose details of the said link, but the newspaper gathered that army intelligence is worried by what appears to be a coordinated attacks and infiltration spreading to Niger, Nasarawa and consolidating in other states of the North West.
But, some analysts last night advised the army to be circumspect and not to further heat up the polity.
Yinka Odumakin, spokesperson for Afenifere last night urged the army to be wary of heating up the polity.
“We are in a democratic dispensation and if there is such a thing it should be the role of the police and DSS and not the army, we are not in a military rule. There is an institution where all these things are been perverted and we challenge the army to do specific things and not such an obtrusive statement we see them as responsible force. It is just a way of overheating the polity,” Odumakin said.
Expressing fears, a Port Harcourt based human rights activist, Comrade Christian Lekia said nothing could be further from the truth giving the fact that such weighty statement was coming from intelligence community of the Nigerian Army.
Lekia however blasted the army for not disclosing the identities of the group and then go after their leadership, if possible and effect some arrest or make, with a “a formal report to the United Nations immediately”.
He called on the security operatives to be at red alert and show sufficient resolve to deal decisively with any internal or external aggression capable of posing security threat in the country.
The national coordinator of the Niger Delta Coalition Against Violence, NDCAV, said after every successful election, the process of governance must be allowed to take its course even though the last general election was the ” worst of its kind in the history of Nigerian elections”.
Suraj Olanrewaju, Executive Director, Human and Environmental Development Agenda Resource Centre (HEDA), however said that the possibility is there and hence the army should up its game through timely intelligence gathering and action.
“The security operatives must up their game and that should not be limited to inauguration or independence day celebrations; security should be an everyday thing and the failure of the government to mitigate this before now is what is leading to the heighten insecurity. The intelligent network of the country will need to up their game and ensure that people generally are protected and not only the VIPs,” Olanrewaju said.
In a press release by Sagir Musa, a colonel and acting director of public relations with the army, it was alleged that these acts of subtle sabotage has come not only from providing funds and logistics to insurgents, but also via what appears to be disinformation of the public with a view to turning them against the army. “The Nigerian Army has noted with great concern efforts by some unpatriotic individuals, groups and foreign interests determined to cause mischief and exacerbate the security situation in this country in particular and West African Sub-region. These persons and groups are making concerted efforts to further induce ISWAP/Boko Haram terrorists and bandits with funds and other logistic supports. “Their body language and unguarded utterances seem to be in tandem with the above and imply tacit support for the criminals. For example, credible source has shown that some individuals are hobnobbing with Boko Haram terrorists, while others are deliberately churning falsehood against the security agencies with a view to set the military against the people and the government. “They are also demoralising troops and security agencies through false accusations and fake news. Therefore, it has become necessary to inform the public and warn such persons and groups to desist as the consequences of their actions would be calamitous to themselves and our great country,” said the army spokesman. The army further added that their acts of sabotage begun before the election where they hoped a successful election won’t hold in the country. “Some of these mischievous elements thought that we would not have a safe and successful general elections but were proved wrong, hence they want to derail the scheduled handing over later this month and to scuttle the democratic process in the country,” Col. Musa said. On the activities of state and non state actors, the army noted that attempt are being made to scuttle the harmonious working relationship with neighbouring African countries to defeat the insurgents. “We also noted that foreign interests are also working assiduously to cause disaffection and divide the coalition, Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) to give room for the so-called Islamic State for West African Province (ISWAP) and its defeated local franchise, Boko Haram terrorists group to resurrect,” he added.