Andrew Adaze Emwanta, a Constitutional Lawyer, is a Lecturer in the Department of Public Law, Faculty of Law, University of Calabar. In this interview with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO, He spoke on the political crisis in Edo state and President Muhammadu Buhari’s inability to make any appointment one month after inauguration Excerpts: As a constitutional lawyer from Edo State, what is your take on the political game that is playing out in the State as regard the State House of Assembly and the alleged rift between Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole ? First, I will speak as one who is trained in the Art of Politics because I have been in politics for the last 20 years and secondly I will speak as a Lawyer because I teach Constitutional Law and I am in active legal practice. What is happening in Edo State as it relates to the recent emergence of its leadership is not different from what has always happened in the politics of this state, remember the intrigues of politics started far back during the Western Regional Assembly, you remember the wide wild west story up to the Midwest Region during the time of the Osadebe’s and of course remember in 1992 we had almost something similar like the Ekpekhio and Egbadon imbroglio and of course it came to a head even the time Oshiomhole decided to impeach the majority with the minority that led to the ouster of Zakawanu Garba. So the beauty of it all is, even when we had a leadership change and of course the removal of some members and even the removal of the roof of the Assembly under the supervision of Oshiomhole though he will play a shadow game of pretending that he was not actively involved but of course the way and manner the House of Assembly was then relocated to Government House clearly explains that when you have precedence that are based on impunity such precedence becomes good law because they are conventional. So when people complain that, “oh the inauguration of the Assembly was by 9 members” I laugh because the Constitution does not say all the members must be present, there is even the example of Rochas Okorocha and others who did not meet certain requirements and of course they were excluded from the inauguration. So, as far as the law is concerned they had a quorum of 9 members, if you say 24 members were elected those were members elect if 9 were present for inauguration, the law does not say the entire membership must be there but they can come in batches just like Rochas was subsequently inaugurated. So my own take is, the business of electing the Speaker and other principal officers must come on the very first day of its inauguration, you do not delay that it is a very important task and I am happy that we now have a leadership. So for the other members that were absent they have to quickly go to register their membership by presenting themselves for swearing in but if they are aggrieved as members elect they have recourse to judicial process. So if they now want to stay away there is a time with which they can stay away otherwise their seats will be declared vacant the Constitution is very clear on that. Is it a healthy development to the political evolution of the country and what effect will it have on the development of Edo state? I think in politics when you say, is it a healthy development the question is, is it something that will bring development to Edo State and I will say the answer is yes. Because you discover that these people were not yet the members of the House of Assembly they were already planning on how to create problems for the state, they were meeting in hotels especially in a situation where their own party, the APC took a decision on how the leadership should go. Remember in the National Assembly the House had taken a different position of presenting the likes of Goje and some other persons but their party the APC said no, we will prefer Lawal, we will prefer Femi Gbajabiamila as Senate President and Speaker respectively and that was what became the house and of course in Edo State this present Speaker was the consensus, they did micro zoning as I was told within the Edo Central Senatorial District and of course that was what led Frank Okiye’s emergence as Speaker. So if you ask that question, is it healthy I will say yes what we want is development, we do not want a House of Assembly that will be antagonistic. Remember that the House of Assembly before now has always been a rubber stamp it was during the time of Lucky Igbinedion we had a House of Assembly that will pass resolutions that was against government and you discover that the person now crying wolf, I mean Adams Oshiomhole, never wanted an independent legislature, he never wanted a situation where a Speaker will emerge through due process and I ask you if Okiye is Speaker, how does that affect Adams Oshiomhole who is from Edo north. He never wanted an Edo Central person to be Speaker, Adjoto, and the immediate past Speaker was not from Edo Central. Oshiomhole decided to hand pick his own kind of Speaker and that is what he wanted to do but by the grace of God it is not the wish of one man, this was a man that spoke against godfatherism but he has now transformed into what he was preaching against. So if we say one man one vote, the emergence of this leadership is a case of one man one vote. Are you accusing Oshiomhole of interfering in Edo political affairs? I will say what is happening with Oshiomhole now crying wolf is a clear signal that in politics there is what you call the political law of karma. When you look at the politics of this state, you will discover that this same Adams Oshiomhole was once against godfatherism. Why, because people brought him into politics, the likes of Ize-Iyamu, the Igbinedions. Because he did not want to pander to some of the suggestions they will make in politics and of course when somebody gives you support he expects you to patronise him either politically or otherwise and he now came with this idea of ‘no to godfatherism’ and of course the present governor is saying no to godfatherism. A situation where some persons choose to be contractors when they do not have any company that does such road contracts or a leader sits somewhere and say I need N200 million. The state resources is not something that should be mortgaged and in terms of revenue collection our present governor is doing well, we had a regime in this state where touts ‘Agbero’s’ were the revenue collectors and that is what the governor had said no to and because of that some of them have been threatening fire and brimstone that the man will not get second term and I believe the issue of second term is a decision for Edo people next year and as far as I know, Oshiomhole’s days as the so-called godfather of Edo politics are numbered. He will soon be retired from politics as a godfather.