Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Comrade Debo Adeniran is the Executive Chairman of the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) and a public affairs commentator. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on 20 years of uninterrupted democracy and other related issues. Excerpt: Nigeria has witnessed 20 years of uninterrupted democracy. How do you see this development? The so-called 20 years of democracy should be renamed 20 years of civil government. It is a pretense of democratic dispensation. It is not the type of democracy Nigerians deserve. Although there had been periods of elections, most of the elections that were held did not take cognizance of the fact that the ballot cast did not determine who was elected. Most of the elections were manipulated against the will of the people. With the happenings in the polity and how the stakeholders conduct themselves, would you say that democracy has really taken its roots in the country? Democracy should have been better managed. The seed has been planted. It is yet to germinate in the way that could give adequate assurance that it could give both to full-fledged democratic practice. In elections, Nigeria is still engulfed in violence. Voting is still being manipulated. Those sworn in do not run participatory democracy. Lawmakers do not set up constituency offices. NEEDS Assessment are rarely carried out. Budgetary sessions are held to satisfy the yearnings of the rulers. Competition between the Executive and Legislature on who passes the budgets is against the people. Procurements are done with service providers and the execution is shoddy. There are dilapidated roads all over. No houses for the people. Power consumption is low. Energy supply not supplied. Companies leave the country. Unemployment is high. Ease of doing business is not in favour of the SMEs. Only big time industrialists have access to loans. MSMEs are dying. Level of insecurity does not allow farmers and cottage industries to make much, they close shops. Basically, it is the fault of governance. There is no even distribution of the commonwealth that are supposed to be entitled to by a Nigerian citizen. People in government manipulate due process to favour them and their cronies. A couple of business funded by illicit resources also had to fold up where those behind them were caught by the long arms of the law. The period we are in is transitional between adulterated democracy, towards awesome democracy. We cannot get full democracy if the people do not form the fulcrum of it. This can only come through a Sovereign National Conference (SNC). Until we have an SNC to determine national ideology and financial handling, we can only have tolerable democratic pretence. In what areas are there still some vestiges of the military and how could these be completely be shed off? First is the Executive nature of Presidents, Governors and Local Government Chairmen.  The ir powers are too enormous. They have the power to do a lot to manipulate the system in their favour. They are empowered to be dictators if they choose to be. The way cabinets are composed should be made more democratic. Ministers should be voted for, examined by the populace. The Parliament can easily be manipulated or blackmailed. Heads of MDAs appointed by governors are too many. They should grow through the ranks to become heads. Heads of MDAs should not be political appointees. They should be manuals that should make the heads adhere to ideologies of the government which the parties came up with. The way political parties are registered without clear-cut ideologies is wrong. All parties with similar ideological leanings should submit blueprint to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on how they will run government before they are allowed to register. They should not manipulate the blueprint to suit themselves when they get into power. Even if they want to operate only in wards, they should abide by the ideologies. At least 0.01 of the eligible voters in the area should be their members. Where they do not have members, they should not be allowed to contest elections. They should have structures within the areas. Members should not be allowed to cross-carpet until at least four years. The electoral body should monitor the operations of the parties and proscribe them if they operate outside the ideologies with which they were registered. The INEC should monitor level of compliance to ensure probity at every level of development. What lessons would you say that the Nigerian politicians have learnt in these 20 years? Nigerian politicians have not learnt much in the way they operate. There is no serious ideology. They rely so much on the power of money. It was only the use of the card reader that limited the manipulations of the electoral process. Politicians still believe that the electoral system could be manipulated at collation. Even the legislators want life pension. They do not believe in service. They fleece the polity for themselves and their cronies. Nigerians are the ones that have learnt some lessons, which is to make public officers accountable. In some places, politicians cannot go to their constituencies. They have been ostracised and by their communities and they have been pelted because they failed to deliver. Nigerians are asking questions on expectations their leaders do not meet. Despite the purported agenda of constituency allowance, which is abnormal, they want to assuage the people’s feeling so the y will not be attacked. There is nothing that says that the people mean much to our politicians. Moving forward, what changes or reforms would you proffer for the nation’s political leaders? Political parties should be registered by ideologies. They should operate wherever they want if they have members. They should be managing their affairs without excuses. Ministers and Heads of MDAs should declare their assets before they are appointed. The Code of Conduct Bureau should verify their assets.  Political appointees should not draw salaries or pensions. They should be given allowances. Legislators should be on part time. Presidents, governors, ministers, etc, should be aid only when they are in office. No political appointee should earn more than a Permanent Secretary. Judges should be elected. Lawyers and Magistrates should be the ones to elect judges. Judges should be recalled. Recall procedure for lawmakers should be strengthened. It should be one-third of the voting population in the constituency. Security votes should be removed. No relation or friend should be put in contract bidding. Every corrupt pubic officer should b investigated and tried. Special prison should be set up for corrupt public officers, where they will be made to work for the state. Undergraduates should be given access to see the jailed corrupt politicians at work and how they are treated to serve as a deterrent to the future leaders. We do not suppot death penalty. The jailed corrupt politicians and other corrupt public officers should be in jail to work for the general good of the people. Don’t you think that with the recognition and adoption of June 12 as Democracy Day, inaugurations should be shifted to June 12 instead of May 29 since the difference is only about two weeks? The hand over date should remain May 29. We are celebrating democracy on June 12. May 29 is just a normal thing because it has been manipulated to be so. No electoral officer should stay longer. The m official handover can be done. In some places, handover can be done before May 29. However, some of us have reservations on June 12. We should have called it MKO Abiola Day. June 12 is to dignify Ibrahim Babaginda (IBB), who created political parties and give them ideologies instead of allowing the people to determine what they wanted. But, political offices were built where he liked and not where they have people. That Humphrey Nwosu could not have summoned courage to declare the winner of the election made it impossible for us not to have a holistic record on the election. Even the Option A4 was not democratic. That election might have been peaceful, but not fair. Other political parties and politicians were barred. People had no free choice. Abiola rekindled the hope of the people and fought on the side of the people. He campaigned for reparation, was Pillar of Sports in Africa, non-discriminatory. He allowed his wealth to circulate in every part of the country. He could have been immortalised by calling that day MKO Abiola Day. There is no democracy day. But, it is good because Abiola was consistent participant and his declaration led to his death and the death of his wife. This qualified the day to be named MKO Abiola Day. Babangida destroyed the people’s choice. No money should be wasted on May 29. As for states, they can celebrate on May 29. The concept f June 12 is a federal thing. The states can celebrate democracy any day they like, but for reasons of unanimity. President Muhammadu Buhari said that True Federalism is the best option for Nigeria. Do you see him implementing it? If so, how, especially as he and his party has not categorically supported restructuring? No democracy can survive without the people’s mandate as espoused through the Sovereign National Conference (SNC). Everyone has his or her idea of what True Federalism is. As long as we are running under a Unitary system, no president can whittle down his power easily unless the people say so. True Federalism speaks of local government autonomy. Is it possible that the Federal Government will allow states or local governments to exploit their mineral resources? The Nigerian Governors Forum is already protesting because they fleece local governments. Basically, some people will think the three tier government is a federation. But, there is no True Federalism until everything is clearly defined. The power flows from the centre. President Buhari has not defined what he said. May be, he wants governments to do what they like with their funds. For NFIU to succeed, local governments should be allowed to do what they like with their funds. But, this is not advisable now because the Judiciary will be decentralized. There will be no role for the National Judicial Council (NJC). Although each state has its Police presently, the only thing is to give governors and local government chairmen more powers to control Commissioners of Police and Divisional Police Officers (DPOs). What is your take on former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s recent alarm on Fulanilisation and Islamisation plot against Nigeria and West Africa? Don’t you think his alarm is real considering the Boko Haram and herdsmen onslaught against the country? Obasanjo was just grandstanding. He looks at areas his statements will be as controversial. Obasanjo started Fulanisation. The South did not vote for him. He enacted the Land Use Act that took away land from the owners. Landlords became landless overnight. He is closer to the Northerners and brought in ailing Umaru Yar’Adua to succeed him he also empowered traditional rulers in the North. He ensured that cattle farming thrived in the North. He was severally turbaned by the Northern leaders. At a point, the CHristain Association of Nigeria (CAN) under Onaiyekan told him to do things differently. How far has he Christianised Nigeria? The Fulani incursion in the South was because of him. He acquired land all over the country because he Land Use Act gave him the power to do it. He has more friends among the Fulani than Yoruba. But, there are claims that he is an Igbo man born to one Onyejekwe who settled in Yorbaland. SERAP, another anti-graft advocacy group recently came out with on the Anti-Corruption Crusade in the last four years so far. Are you aware of the report? If so, to what extent does CACOL agree with the report? I have not fully gone through the SERAP report. But, I read some snippets from the Amnesty International (AI) and Transparency International (TI) websites. They are not competent if they say that the anti-corruption crusade is not taking effect. They did not take into cognizance where we are coming from, that corruption seemed to be a way of life. Hen President Buhari came into power through merger of several political parties which hardly knew themselves. Buhari took ill for a long time. The depth of corruption was so deep that people see illicit manipulation as a way of life. Corruption has been democratized by the previous governments. The current government is stabilising the instruments to fight corruption. Certain instruments in the law books were not operational it is not this administration that came up with the BVN and TSA. But, under this administration, they became operational. The anti-graft agencies were strengthened and given free hands. Corruption issues were brought to the front burner. The first generation of rulers was born seeing corruption s a way of life. Corruption became like an ideology and doctrine. To reverse them takes a long time. In Singapore, it took 12 years, not four years to fight corruption. Many people were arrested and thrown into jail. Some committed suicide.xx