Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Temidayo Akinsuyi, Lagos The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Lagos State chapter on Sunday described as insensitive the alleged purchase of N187m Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) as an official vehicle by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The party in a statement by Gani Taofik, its Publicity Secretary also berated the governor for not making public his assets declaration. However, in a swift reaction, the governor has denied the allegations saying PDP is exhibiting signs of long term depression, adding that the governor has not procured any official vehicle since he was inaugurated. According to the PDP, “for Mr. Sanwo- Olu,  the governor to buy N187M worth as official vehicle is prodigal, insensitive and not humble beginning at all, especially at this period that the residents need the abandoned projects completed and the provision of improved welfare services”. Counseling the governor, the Lagos PDP advised Sanwo-Olu to make public his assets and also a manifest commitment to selfless service devoid of any urge for personal enrichment. “The PDP posits that IF Mr. Sanwoolu does not on his own make public, information of his declared Assets for Lagosians to know and verify within seven days, the party shall compel him to be morally responsive to Lagosians by adopting the FOI Act to get the said information”. Responding to the PDP’s claim, Gboyega Akosile, Deputy Chief Press Secretary said contrary to the PDP’s claim, the current car used by the governor was purchased a year ago. “The People’s Democratic Party in Lagos State has started exhibiting signs of long term depression by joining the infamous league of fake news promoters. As a major political party, one will expect the PDP to be more circumspect in its criticism of the State Governor especially along the line of progress and development for the State and not reducing itself to the purveyor of fake news”. “For the avoidance of doubt, His Excellency,  the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu did not buy a #187m SUV as his official vehicle. In fact, the Governor has not procured any vehicle for official use. The vehicle the Governor uses, if that’s what the PDP is referring to was purchased almost a year ago and it certainly is not N187m. The PDP needs to check well before coming out with fallacious claims next time”. “On the issue of assets declaration. This shows clearly that the party and its members are delusional. Although while it’s not legally mandatory for Governor Sanwo-Olu to make his Assets Declaration public, he is certainly not perturbed about the request. The PDP should know by now that it’s a choice”. “However, Governor Sanwo-Olu will not be dragged into matters that have no direct positive impact on the lives of the people of Lagos State, therefore the PDP should keep its unsolicited advice and concentrate on putting its already collapsed house in order if it hopes to be relevant in the political firmament of Lagos State now or in the future” he said.