Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mr. Adeleke Odude, the President, Business Club Ikeja (BCI), in this interview with ISAAC ASABOR, spoke on diverse issues affecting the nation’s economy with particular emphasis on banks not extending loans to SMEs as they ought to. Excerpts: The Business Club Ikeja which is under your leadership is set to train business managers and organisations interested in improving their performance and productivity. What is the motive behind the programme? The training programme is aimed at helping affiliates and invited companies and staff to gain the required knowledge and skills that would improve their productivity as well as makes them realise their missions as businesses and professionals. Is it part of the mandates of the Business Club? Of course, it is part of the mandates the club is charged with. The move is in line with our vision of fostering the building of professionals and professional business practices. The training programmes are part of series of activities the club will be promoting this year to help people and businesses in Nigeria. Can you throw an insight into the programmes that would be available for interested participants? Thank you. Presently we are inviting those who are interested to participate in one of the programmes on Emotional Intelligence for staff and client management.  We are urging interested members and non-members and their staff to participate in the programme which is basically a career development and training programme. The training is an initiative of the Club in collaboration with the Centre for International Advanced and Professional Studies, with input from the Washington Institute for Strategic & Development Studies and the Business Club of London. Let me say that the Programme is conceived as a fundamental tool for effective people management and business performance and it has been designed bearing in mind the needs of and with a lot of inputs from managers, supervisors, customers, vendors and regulators. It will also be an opportunity to share direct and inside tips about our ever-moving role of people management. Sir, can you tell us how the content looks like? The content is no doubt rich as the key areas to be covered in the programme cut across analysing the essence of and importance of emotional intelligence, relevant categories of emotional intelligence to business, competency building emotional intelligence, practical application of emotional intelligence in professional environment and self-awareness technique. Other areas the programme has been tailored to impart on participants are self-motivation technique, emotional Intelligence and communication skills, social management and responsibility and self-regulation and management technique among others. What are the learning outcomes that characterise the programe? By the end of this programme, participants should be able to understand and evaluate the impact of emotional intelligence and capable of relating it to workplace situations. They will also at the end of the programme be capable of identifying the benefits of having higher emotional intelligence, understand the four core skills required to practice emotional intelligence as well be able to define and practice self-management, self-awareness, self-regulation and self-motivation. Again, they will at the end of the programme be able to successfully communicate with others in a non-verbal manner, and capable of communicating with emotional awareness. Also to be benefited from the programme is that participants will know how to interpret and manage emotions in any Situation. Added to all these benefits is that they would be capable of balancing optimism and pessimism for best outcomes and know how to effectively Impact others emotional experiences. What do you have to tell participants about the faculty that will drive the programme? The programmes at CIAPS, that we are collaborating with, go far beyond the basic transmission of skills and theories as the offerings provide applicable lessons in the classroom that can be implemented successfully within an organisation. Each programme is designed and led by carefully selected experts who are leading authorities in their respective fields. Sir, when is the programme scheduled to hold, and what is the cost of the programme and its attendant atrractions and venue? The programme will be conducted at Business Club Ikeja here on Wednesday June,26,  2019 and it will start from 9.00am. Cost of the programme for our members per table is ₦120,000. The fees cover Registration, Course Materials, Certificate, Tuition, breakfast and lunch.   Cost of the programme for non-members per table is ₦200,000 and a table is for 4 delegates per company. Considering the fact that Business Club is a think-thank organisation, what solution do you think should be applied to stem the tide of growing rate of unemployment in the country? To answer your question, I must say that the Club has never being insensitive to the alarming rate of unemployment in the country. I recall that during our Business Luncheon for the month of October 2018 that we spoke on the issue of unemployment and underemployment. During the luncheon, we urged the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) to partner the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on entrepreneurship. We made the call because we were optimistic that when young Nigerian graduates are sensitised and mobilised right from the NYSC Camp on skill acquisition annually, that the problem of unemployment will reduce and further curb crime rate as it would make them become self-reliant upon passing out from youth service. We believe that the initiative can be executed in orientation Camps of the NYSC across the country. In the face of the prevailing unfavorable economic environment how are you, and other executive members been running the Club? Without mincing words, I must say it has been challenging in the last few years. As you are aware it has been a big challenge running the club in the face of unfavorable business environment coupled with the economic recession that we exited from in the last few months. The economic recession affected the operations of most of the Club members, and consequently depleted the activities of the Club programmes. Are you presently doing anything to bring the club back to its feet? Yes. We did something, and we are still doing it as long as it is worthwhile. At the time the recession became unbearable, and in that vein began to bring negative impact to bear on the club, we embarked on courtesy visits to some member organisations as a way of encouraging more members. We particularly targeted non-active members and succeeded in bringing some of them. How successful was the effort made in encouraging non-active members to come back? It was successful in every sense of the words because it was a joint effort with the Club’s governing council. In fact, we embarked on the courtesy visits to some member organisations including prospective organisations during the period. Organisations visited cut across Berger Paints Plc, Lagos Airport Hotel Ltd, May & Baker Nig. Plc, Funmice Nigeria Ltd and Centre for International Advanced and Professional Studies (CIAPS). Non-members visited as at the time were Reals Pharmaceutical Limited, Pearlworth Hotels & Suites, Ministry of Commerce, Industry & Co-operatives and Ministry of Local Government & Community Affairs. Sir, do you think the banks are giving enough support to business enterprises? To be candid with you on this question, the banks are not doing enough. Despite the billions of naira the banks declared as profit in every quarter of the year, the impacts are not felt by business entrepreneurs, particularly those operating small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The impact is not felt because there is no economy that will grow on high interest rate. It is very unfortunate. In other climes such as Europe and America, interest rate is deliberately made to be favorable for those in business. Just as I earlier told you, there is no way a high interest rate will help the economy. Again, most of the banks are more concerned about giving short term loan for individuals who have ostensibly gotten their monies from questionable source. It is because of this that banks cannot give out funds at reasonable interest rate.   Under the present economic situation where Nigerians are witnessing spiraling rate of unemployment, particularly among the youths, banks are supposed to afford unemployed youth’s easy access to loan with a reasonable interest rate. I am still reiterating that we cannot build an economy on such interest rate as we have now and that is the reason even the real estate is failing. We are supposed to be looking at how to empower the SMEs. For instance, you will find out that AMCON published the names of loan defaulters some time ago. It was discovered that those who were indebted to the banks were 2.5 per cent of the total population. The banks have failed to realised that it is when they spread the funds that more individuals, businesses will be able to pay taxes. Is it because we are dependent on oil and what comes out of oil? That is the reason government does not bother if individuals are empowered. But in a situation where government generates most of its income from taxes, the attitude of government will be to encourage enterprises and SMEs at every level. When everybody is busy with one thing or the other, more people will pay taxes and this will increase government revenue. This will create employment and crime rate will reduce. But as it is, we are sitting on gun powder that can explode anytime. As a leader that believes that there is need for workers and business people alike to pay attention to their health on daily basis, and a businessman that advocates workers and entrepreneurs should always take time off to relax, how ready is the Garden Bar owned by the club? The Garden bar is ready for service to both members and non-members. As you are aware, the relaxation facility was informed by the need to serve members who would want to always come around to relax at the garden, and in the process reduce their stress. We have improved on the infrastructure, and I am assuring anyone that would patronise the bar that it is a place to be. We are your expectations from the government now that the president was recently sworn in for a second term tenure? Looking at the economy from the last four years, I would first and foremost say from the perspective of the exchange rate that the government should endeavor to bring the naira in relation to the dollar to a reasonable level of stability. In the current tenure, the government should eschew the situation in the last political dispensation where ministers where not appointed until almost in the first half of the year. Such situation cannot be in the best interest of the economy and the people of Nigeria. Again, the president should endeavor to identify areas where he feels he did not perform well as it cannot be said that he scored hundred percent in the last tenure. To me, having identified such areas he should improve on observed weaknesses and strengths. Can you tell non-members about the Business Club and what it stands for? Yes, the Business Club lkeja is a premium business network of committed professionals which was established in the year 1991.Members enjoy monthly programs where they build productive relationships and share experience and skills. Membership of Business Club lkeja is open to companies in the lkeja business district and its environs. The club is unique and innovative features make it the business club of choice in the lkeja Business Districts. It offers a unique opportunity to escape from the routine and stress of work and maintain a healthy lifestyle by patronising the Club Wellness Centre. It is our ethos to allow business relationships to grow organically and, by providing the ambient setting in terms of location, food and refreshments, friendship and trust are nurtured. You are more likely to do business with someone you know, like and trust. Come to the lkeja Business Club and network in beautiful surroundings with like-minded people. Our members provide the club with a continuous stream of expert knowledge, shared ideas and professional updates, unique to their discipline, which will enhance your personal and business growth. The members’ forum, led by a skilled facilitator or coach, will allow you to utilise the business knowledge and experience within the group to test plans, get input into ideas or decisions, or simply discuss local business issues