Powered by RubiQube Ad Network AWKA – Seventy year old Chief Anthony Okongwu of Ikenga Ogidi has lost his life while three other people from same community were injured when suspected thugs from Umusiome village of Nkpor allegedly attacked them over land boundary. The incident happened on last week Saturday,  June 1 when the people of Ikenga Ogidi went to inspect their portion of land at Agu Owele  which Nkpor community is allegedly encroaching on. The national president of Ikenga Ogidi, Hon. Amaechi Ekume and national secretary Chime Amanwa who briefed the press in Awka on Friday, said that Ikenga Ogidi and Umusiome village of Nkpor have been having dispute over their boundary. However, the Supreme Court entered a judgement in favour of Ikenga Ogidi in 1997 and boundary monuments were erected. Nevertheless, Umusiome has since then continued to violate the judgment prompting his community to approach the Anambra State Government which issued a gazette No. 7,volume7 of July 31,1997. This followed demolition of boundary monuments by Umusiome. Ekume also recalled that the two communities were advised to maintain the statuquo and the boundary monuments were restored. Yet, Umusiome has continued to violate the agreement and Ikenga Ogidi people complained to the police and the “Commissioner issued specific directive that Umusiome and Ikenga Ogidi should stay within their sides”. However,  when the people of Ikenga Ogidi went to inspect their land, on June 1, they were attacked resulting in a loss of life and injuries. To make the matter worse, the police seemed to be docile over the matter. The police spokesman Mohammed Haruna however, told Crime Tracker that the matter is under investigation. Ikenga Ogidi community further accused landlords on their lands sold by Umusiome of arming thugs with dangerous weapons with which they attack their people. They pleaded with relevant authorities to enforce the judgment of Supreme Court by prevailing on Umusiome to maintain the status quo. In their reaction, the chairman of Umusiome landlords association, Mr. Daniel Alaneme denied arming people with dangerous weapons. He said the landlords do not know the origin of the land dispute and would want the two sides to settle their differences and that they would settle with the legitimate owners of the land.