Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Displaced residents of Foweseje Community, Lakowe, Ibeju-Lekki,Lagos State have cried out over alleged violation of court order and alleged illegal demolition of their over 600 houses in the community by the agents of an organisation claiming ownership of the community land. While speaking to Daily Independent, the leaders of the community Ajenifuwa Victor, the chairman, Akpowenre Okiemute, Secretary,Odum Paul, Emeka Azubike and other members of the community alleged that the issue on the demolition of their property is before the court and wonder why the defendants in the case have taken the laws into their hand in defiance to court order. The complainants are seeking an order returning their lands to the original owners and payment of compensation of N18 billion naira for damages done to their properties where over 600 buildings were demolished contrary to an earlier court order restraining both parties to stay action pending the determination of the case. Daily Independent gathered that residents of the community had cried to the Lagos state government for help over the ‘Illegal’ Mass demolition of their buildings by agents of an organisation claiming ownership of the community land. The community wondered how a company that was registered in 2003 with a C of O the same year claim ownership of the land that had been long in existence. It has been a long drawn legal tussle between the community and the organisation as far back as 2011 and the case was recently transferred to Epe High Court and scheduled for June 26, 2019, before the organisation allegedly invaded the community with thugs to demolish houses. “Despite all the court proceedings which lawyers of the organisation attended all through and despite the fact that the Judge had earlier ruled that all parties should maintain status quo pending the determination of the case, it also granted an accelerated hearing in the case. They invaded and demolish our buildings. “They said. The embattled Fowoseje residents alleged that the destruction of their community by one Prince Banjoko Muraina, Chairman of Threeco Construction Company Limited, said to be a contractor to Toll System Development Company Limited, Alhaji Mutairu Owoeye and Ganiyu Owoeye A.K.A Gaba. In their statement of claim, Chief Nojeem Fatai Arimi Ojomu , Adisa Fatai Ojomu and seven others who are claimants in the case alleged that the defendant is acting in concert with the defendants powerful connection and instruments of ARM Investment Company Limited and entered into Fowoseje village and bulldozed their buildings /properties and traditional enclaves and economic tree of the claimants without any court order or order or judgement. The claimant’s said the defendants used their powerful connections and continued to terrorise them thereby subjecting them to continuous agony and threatening through their officials to come and demolish the entire Fowoseje village and the building that were still on the land. The claimants averred that the conduct of the defendants have inflicted adverse, untold and unimaginable trauma, hardship and misery on the claimants and other land owners and occupier of Fowosho village land. The Bale of Fowoseje Chief Nojeem Fatai Ojomu in his letter signed on January 17, 2012 to the Chairman Adhoc Committee, titled Fowoseje Land Matter which was addressed to the House of Assembly Complex, Governor’s office, Alausa had appealed for mercy by releasing their land to them so as to continue living on their ancestral land. According to him, “Fowoseje was and has never been seen as a controversial land, therefore it belongs exclusively to us and our family as an estate of inheritance. We and our family are customary owners of Fowoseje village, and the land through our ancestors, have been exercising diverse and undisturbed act of ownership including cultivating some portion of the land without any challenge from anybody. “Due to our friendliness and unalloyed accommodation to strangers, we have in the past assigned a large portion of our land to various people who have built houses on their respective land. And they are living in there with their families. “Therefore, we are the customary owners of Fowoseje village and at no time we diverted our title and our ancestor’s home or land known as Fowoseje Village to anyone or group. “To our surprise, we discovered that one Toll System Development Company Limited which is a subsidiary of A.R.M. Investment Limited, floated by some ‘powerful individuals’ invaded our land. “Consequently, upon this, we discovered that Toll System Development Company has been offering/selling our land at Foweseje Village as much as N3, 300,000 per 450 square meters per plot. “As if that is not enough, on October 9, 2010 the Toll System Development Company Limited with the powerful connections and instrumentality of ARM entered into our land and bulldozed buildings/properties and traditional edifices and all our means of livelihood. The residents of Fowoseje however seek court’s protection against the alleged illegal demolition of their houses by the said company. Earlier, the community has instituted a suit against the company, asking the court to grant an order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendants, their agents, provide and assigns from further interfering with the possession of the claimants building at Fowoseje Village in Ibeju Lekki Local Government Council Area of Lagos. The community has also asked the court to order the defendants to pay a total sum of N18 billion against the 2nd defendant for the destruction and demolition of the claimants buildings. The case has however been transferred to Epe High Court and scheduled for June 26, 2019 for hearing.