Abuja  – The Managing Director of Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Umar Ibrahim yesterday revealed that 60 per cent of Nigerians are still unable to access banking facilities. This is even as Ahmad Lawan, the President of the Senate, lambasted the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation (NAIC) for not meeting the demands of Nigerian disadvantaged farmers. Ibrahim, who spoke when he led his management team to pay a courtesy visit on the President of the Senate, said that the Corporation was working to ease the difficulty in accessing banking facilities and make available avenue to contain the situation. Reiterating that the NDIC was prepared to work with the National Assembly for the safety of the banking and financial sectors in Nigeria, Ibrahim said that the corporation had been able to achieve tremendously in the area of support to keep alive ailing banks and to tackle cyber crimes. He said: “The issue of financial inclusion is very critical globally; we have a lot of statistics that indicate clearly that about 60 per cent of Nigerians do not have access to finance. “People travel for hundreds of kilometers before they can reach a branch of Commercial or microfinance Bank. There are Local Governments through and communities that do not have a branch, they do not have Automated Teller Machines (ATM) equipment, they have nothing and you cannot achieve those without some kind of sustainable financial inclusion. “We are working hard to ensure that the situation is changed in addressing the problem of poverty. In achieving this, Nigeria has signed ombudsman to eradicate or to eliminate the problem of access to finance, measures have been taken to ensure that we gain more mileage in this area by way of establishing more microfinance banks, licensing mobile banks, creation of agents’ banks. The President of the Senate noted that agricultural produce added huge impacts into the nation’s economy and charged everyone to encourage and empower farmers in the country. He decried that the financial institutions in the country hardly make available facilities for these less privileged farmers, stressing that while they are available, the interest rate was always on the high side, which he said discouraged most of them. Insisting that the Senate commitment to a healthy banking and other financial institutions remained sacrosanct, Lawan pointed out that members of the ninth Senate were desirous of a stable economy. He, however, said that this could only be achieved through collaboration by all players in the financial services. He commended NDIC for its efforts over the years, especially for protecting customers’ interest. He also lauded the corporation for its various engagements such as workshops, public hearing and monitoring; assuring that the National Assembly would not relent in its oversight functions to ensure the common man was positively impacted in the scheme of things. He said: “NDIC is a very important institution of government. You have the mandate to make our banking system work. I am delighted you have done that over the years. “We in the Senate will continue to work closely together with you. Our relevant committees will partner with you to ensure that citizens are not shortchanged.” He also assured that the NDIC Act pending in the Senate would receive urgent attention as soon as the Senate resumes. “The Bill on re-enactment of NDIC will receive adequate attention.  We are going to work on the amendment. All the issues confronting the financial services and regulations will not be wheeled down for the interest of Nigerians. We have the responsibility to make sure that this economy reclaims its lost glory. “We cannot have a stable economy and even country without a healthy banking system. Will continue in our duties to ensure that our banking system is reliable,” Lawan said.