Powered by RubiQube Ad Network With the arrival of its season of scarcity, prices of plantain which gradually started skyrocketing early this year, have not yet declined but instead increased further such that affordability appears to be a struggle to many. Visits to some markets across the states especially in Lagos revealed that the commodity was not available and the ones supplied by traders were not sizeable, could be mistaken for banana. But despite that, their prices were expensive as well as the big ones. The commodity which seemed not to be adequately supplied from its major sources such as Edo, Ondo and Ijebu waterside is a staple food in Nigeria, mostly enjoyed by children and diabetic patients because of their health status. Regardless of how exorbitant, prices of plantain may be, lovers of the commodity must always patronise it particularly those diabetic patients who do not prefer alternative meals. Findings from a market survey in selected markets across the states by the Business and Market Intelligence Unit of SUNDAY INDEPENDENT showed that prices of plantain rose steeply by over 80 per cent between February and May 6, 2019. Unavailability arising from off-season effect coupled with high demand from consumers was predominantly mentioned as reasons responsible for the hike in prices of the commodity. Visits  to Wuse Market, Abuja,  revealed that  prices of  a big bunch of plantain that were previously sold for between N1,300 and N1,500 soared, currently ranging from N2,500 to N3,000 signifying over  80 per cent rise. This, however, depends on the size and bargaining power of the customer. Madam Regina Adefuye, who trades in the commodity at the Wuse Market, Abuja, linked the exorbitant prices to seasonal problems. At the Ogbeogologo Market, Asaba, the situation was not different as prices of a big bunch that formerly went for between N1,200 and N1,500 attracted N2,500 in the week under review. While prices of the small bunch that were initially sold for N500 escalated to N1,000. Many of the traders at the Ogbeogologo Market, Asaba, in a chat with our correspondent blamed the situation to scarcity usually associated with seasonal factors. That of Ose Market, Onitsha, was not different either as prices of six big bunches of plantain previously sold for between N7,000 and N7,500 shoot up, currently selling for between N12,000 and N12,500 while that of six small bunches of plantain earlier sold for N3,000 attracted N6,000, of which  many of the traders at the Ose Market, Onitsha, ascribed to scarcity. For Itam Market, Uyo, prices of the commodity were also at an upward trend. For example, prices of a big bunch of plantain currently goes for N2,500 as against N1,200 previously sold. Likewise, that of a small bunch which previously attracted N600 soared to N1,000. Mr. Ben Ekpo, a plantain seller at the Itam Market, Uyo, connected the hike to insufficient supply from its major sources and high cost of logistics. In Oba market, Benin City, the home of plantain, prices of the commodity were also at an upward trend owing to seasonal problem, despite being produced there. For instance, prices of a six small bunches of plantain  at the Oba Market, Benin City, previously sold for between N2,300 and  N2,500 increased sharply, currently selling within the region of N3,500 and N4,000 while that of  six big bunches currently goes for between N10,500 and N11,500 up from N8,000 previously sold. Mrs. Asanatu Akadiri, who sells plantain at the Oba Market, Benin City, connected the situation to period of scarcity commonly associated with the commodity in this season. She said that the increase was not a surprise to her as it had been the norm, stressing further that prices of the commodity were being determined by seasonal factors. Visits to King’s Market, Ado-Ekiti, also showed that prices of plantain had really gone up especially when compared with what they were previously sold, especially with the prices of a big bunch currently going for N2,000 as against between N1,000 and N1,200 earlier sold. That of the small bunch, initially sold for N400 increased to between N800 and N1,000 depending on the haggling power of the buyer. Many of the traders at the King’s Market, Ado-Ekiti, blamed the situation to inadequate supply, arising from scarcity. The same could be mentioned for that of Bodija Market, Ibadan, particularly with the prices of six small bunches of plantain currently going for between N4,000 and N4,500 as against  between N2,500 and N3,000 previously sold. That of a big bunch of plantain also went up to between N2,500 and N2,700 from N1,500 sold before. Mrs. Moradayo Abu, a plantain seller at the Bodija Market, Ibadan, linked the situation to high demand and shortfall in supply from its major sources due to its season of lack usually experienced during this season. In Lagos, visits to popular markets such as Idi-Oro and Ifesowapo Market, where prices of the commodity can be obtained at lower prices revealed that there was truly scarcity as some of the traders have stopped selling the commodity because of the huge amount involved in sustaining their normal purchases. Also, it was the small species that saturated the markets and are being sold at an expensive rate. That of the big bunch was also sighted but procuring it required spending more. For example, prices of the small bunch sold previously for between N400 and N500 escalated to N1,000 while that of a big bunch of plantain initially sold for N1,500 rose sharply, currently ranging from N2,500 to N3000 of which many of the traders attributed to off-season effect and high cost of transportation. The worst hits are consumers who buy the commodity in smaller quantities as prices attracted were discouraging.