Bureau Chief Benin – Dele Igbinedion, a Benin based legal practitioner has called on the law enforcement  agencies to result to the use of a Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) test to detect crimes rather than the use of torture and other inhuman and degrading treatments to extract information from suspects. The Legal luminary made the call while delivering a lecture, titled ‘Eliminating Torture in The 21st Century’ being an event put up by the Edo Civil Society Organisations, (EDOCSO)to mark the World Torture Day in Benin City, the Edo State capital. Igbinedion said the world is moving very fast in crime detection such as the use of DNA and that it is expedient that the country’s law enforcement agencies should also move with the global trend of international best practices of crime detection instead of still maintaining the old order. “The world is moving away from torture and other inhuman and degrading treatment torture as a way to force people to confess to crimes. It is always believed in forensic legal science that every criminal leaves a trace of himself at the scene of crime. It could be the way of blood tissues, or sweat, clothe, shoes, or finger prints. “So, the essence of that forensic science is to be able to use those evidence left by criminals to detect them. “DNA refers to testing people’s blood. Each of us in our blood system has different configuration, all the people on earth, God made it in such a way that we have different blood configuration. “So, if my blood is tested, it will be different from yours, yours will be different from mine but those of me and my children will bear a similarity. “So, it is expected that the police and other security agencies should have a data base for finger prints, and the blood components of each individual, hospitals will have it so that when crime is committed, they can use it to detect the person that committed the crime. “The law now outlaws torture, inhuman and degrading treatment as a tool of crime detection,” he said. He however called on Nigerians to endeavour to know their rights and always call for a third party when given their statement to any law enforcement agencies. “The administration of criminal justice act or law which we call the  ACJA or ACJL has made provision to safeguard against that and one of the salient provisions is that, any suspects that is being interviewed by security agencies must have a person of his choice present when he is writing or making his statement. “Such person could be either his lawyer, a member of civil society organisation, it could either be member of the justice of the peace or anybody of his choice,” the legal expect added.