Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The fight against criminals and cultism in Lagos is really gaining momentum as the Police made serious breakthrough by arresting a notorious and wanted cult leader, Yusuf Omidele, popularly known as General in the crime world. Lagos state police command spokesman told the Daily Independent, that ‘General’, a leader of the Eiye Confraternity, was arrested alongside 21 members of the gang in Ikorodu area of Lagos during an extensive operation by the State Police Anti- Cultism Unit headed by Uduak Udom a Chief Superintendent of Police,CSP. He said the arrest of General and 21 others followed the meeting held by CP Muazu and other stakeholders to end the menace of cultism and gangsterism in the state. Elkana explained that on 6th June, 2019, at about 10pm, the Police received a distress call that some cult members from two rival groups had engaged themselves in a supremacy battle along Isikalu Palace and Solomade area, Ikorodu. The Command’s Anti -Cultism Unit and patrol teams from Ikorodu were promptly drafted to the scene. According to him, the leader of the gang, who had been on the wanted list of the Command, Yusuf Omidele, popularly known as General, was arrested with twenty other cultists. He said the General had been charged to Court on several occasions and sent to prison. He was said to have completed his last sentence in 2014 and had become an Elder-in- Council in the Eiye Confraternity. He led his gang in a reprisal attack on the members of Aye confraternity and they were alleged to have killed the wife of one of their leaders some weeks ago. The suspects arrested by the Police belonged to both Aye and Eiye confraternities and have all confessed being members of the secret cults. Two cultists were said to have died from the cult clash and six others were injured in the process. “The massive onslaught launched by the Command on cultists and gangsters is a continuous operation with a view to arresting other fleeing members of the gangs. Four locally made pistols, eight machetes and three daggers were recovered. The suspects will be charged to Court with a view to proffer a lasting solution to youth gangsterism, involvement of teenagers and underage persons in cult activities, especially at Ikorodu area. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Zubairu Muazu, has on 7th June, 2019, met with traditional rulers, religious leaders, elder statesmen, parents, youths and other stakeholders at Ikorodu.