Commander-General, Harpazo Chaplain Corps International, Chaplain (Dr.) Joluwaseyi Joseph, has applauded President Muhammad Buhari, for signing the new anti-corruption bill into law.
Speaking with Daily Independend in Lagos on Wednesday, Joluwaseyi said that with the signing of the bill, the war on corruption presently being waged by the federal government has moved to the next level.
His words: “This is coming as the president is warming up further empower the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC), and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), to tackle government officials, individuals and companies linked with monumental corruption”.
It is, however, noted that Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, Chairman, ICPC, said recently that his agency recovered N26 billion from 2015 till date.
Prof. Owasanoye also disclosed that 32 houses were recovered from public officials and companies during the period under review.
On the other hand, Acting Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, said in 2017, the anti-graft agency recovered about N511.9 billion from suspected looters.
The agency also recovered $98 million, €7 million, and £294,000 among other foreign currencies. Magu made this disclosure while defending the budget of his agency before the House of Representatives Committee on Financial Crimes, headed by Kayode Oladele, an All Progressives Congress member representing Ogun State. He told the lawmakers that part of the monies recovered in 2017 included N32 billion and $5 million forfeited to the Federal Government by former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Alison Madueke. Media reports further quoted the anti-graft warlord as saying that N449 million was discovered at a plaza in Lagos, $43 million discovered in an apartment in Ikoyi area of Lagos, N329 billion from petroleum marketers in Kano while withholding tax of over N27.7 billion was retrieved from banks. Other recovered monies include the Nigerian Ports Authority recovery of €6.6 million, recovery of about N1.1 billion on behalf of AMCON, and the recovery of subsidy fraud funds more than N4 billion. He also said the breakdown of the total recovery has been sent to the National Assembly. The anti-graft agency had last year at a conference of the state parties to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption held in Vienna said it recovered loots totaling N738.9 billion or $2.9 billion between May 2015 and October 20, 2017. The commission said it made a lot of recoveries locally using the mechanism of the non-conviction based forfeiture provided under Section 17 of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act, 2006. However, Chaplain Joluwaseyi is appealing to Nigerians in particular and the entire human race to continue to pray and wish the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration well in its dream of further tackling corruption at various levels in this second term.