Lagos – The Director-General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim has advised corps members to be conscious of their conduct, interact freely and embrace teamwork in the cause of their call to national service. Delighted at the level of interaction and cordiality among corps members on camps, the DG who was on a nationwide tour of orientation camps for the ongoing 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream orientation training urged them to give room for natural likeness that may lead to inter-tribal marriages. At his first point of call at the Iyana-Ipaja camp, Lagos he specifically warned the females not to degrade themselves but serve as good ambassadors of their respective families. The NYSC boss appealed to the corps members to be guided by the NYSC Act and avoid actions that can endanger their lives just as he encouraged them to embrace the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme, adding that it was designed to make them creators of wealth. Speaking further, the DG added that the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Centres in Gombe and Ekiti States would be replicated in other zones across the country. “Please don’t embark on an unauthorised journey. Be focused, disciplined and don’t make yourself readily available to kidnappers.” At the Sagamu NYSC orientation camp, Ogun State, the DG said NYSC was established as a tool to foster National Unity, hence, Management would continue to encourage inter-tribal marriages among Corps Members. Ibrahim, in his address also enjoined them to internalise the four cardinal programmes of the NYSC vis-a-vis Orientation Course, Place of Primary Assignment, Community Development Service and Winding Up/Passing-Out to positively impact their host communities with developmental projects. The Director-General warned the Corps Members to avoid indulging in cyber crimes, hard drugs and other related social vices adding that culprit would be decamped and handed over to the law enforcement agents. “If you are disciplined and focused, the sky will be your limit. Interact freely with your host communities and leave good legacies. Take advantage of the potentials of NYSC Scheme and wherever you find yourselves, keep your records straight,” Ibrahim added. The Director-General also admonished the Corps Members to always be in possession of their identity cards for proper identification as he cautioned them against influencing their postings