Powered by RubiQube Ad Network IBADAN – The Oyo state police command on Monday paraded about 29 members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), arrested in connection with public disturbance during the inauguration of Governor Seyi Makinde. Mr. Shina Olukolu, the state Commissioner of Police, who paraded the NURTW members, revealed that a team of policemen detailed at the entrance of Liberty Stadium, Ibadan, arrested 14 of the suspects with dangerous weapons, during the inauguration. Those arrested hoodlums are: Oladimeji Opeyemi, who was arrested with one double barrel gun with 4 live cartridges; Monsuru Oladejo, who was arrested with one single barrel gun with one cartridge; Abdulahi Kasali, arrested with one live cartridge; Yusuf Rasheed, arrested with charms and Indian hemp; Olusola Akintomo, arrested with sharp cutlass and criminal charms; Opeyemi Balogun, arrested with charms. Others are: Johnson Akanji; Kabiru Afolabi; Lukman Mukaila, arrested with charms; Ridwan Rasaq, arrested with one sharp knife; Samuel Taiwo; Taoreed Suleiman, arrested with charms; Sodiq Sarafa, arrested with one sharp knife; and Mutiu Rasheed, arrested with one pump action. The Oyo police boss maintained that the arrested hoodlums came to the venue of the inauguration with the aim of using the arms recovered from them to cause mayhem at the venue. Olukolu explained further that similarly, another 15 members of the Oyo NURTW were arrested following a compliant by one Dauda Adisa, who reported to the police that he was attacked along with the state Chairman of NURTW, Alhaji Abideen Ejiogbe, on their way from Liberty Stadium to the Orita Challenge park. The police boss said Adisa reported that “on getting to the said office, they saw two Micra taxis, three buses and a Previa car loaded with hoodlums who shot into the air and use cutlasses; hence, in the process few members of the union sustained injuries”. He gave the names of people arrested in connection with the fracas to include: Musibau Lasisi, 57; Tirimisiyu Adegoke, 42; Taye Oguntade, 42; Babatunde Rasheed, 37; Adesina Ajayi, 30; Adisa Ganiyu, 29; Taoreed Ajiboro, 42; Suraju Adepoju, 47; Sodiq Adeyemo, 21. Others are: Akanji Named, 27; Ajobo Ademola, 43; Muritala Rodwan, 30; Anthony Igwe, 30; KAZEEM Adio, 20; and Tajudeen Alagbe, 62. Olukolu maintained that failed attempts were made by the hoodlums to extend the violent disturbance of public peace to Idi Arere, Beers, Orita Aperin, Muslim, Iwo Road, and Eruwa motor parks, all within Ibadan metropolis. The Oyo police boss revealed further that the suspects in the process were arrested by a combined team of policemen, military and DSS.