Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Lagos – Embattled President of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Ibrahim Gusau, has absolved himself of culpability in the missing  $135, 000 that was paid into the account of the AFN in error by the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF). Speaking in a Radio sport programme monitored in Lagos on Friday, Gusau said that he was unaware of anything that has to do with the IAAF grant, which was meant to be $15,000, but erroneously upgraded, to $150,000 in 2017. The IAAF has repeatedly reminded Nigeria of the need to return the excess balance and then issued a veiled threat early last month, failing which sanctions would be handed out to the country. “I present myself innocent and hereby invite the anti-graft bodies, police, EFCC, ICPC, others to investigate me. “Everyone is castigating me all over the place, on radio, television, in newspapers; they say I am the one responsible. “That is not true, because I am not the one in charge of money matters for the AFN, and I don’t know anything about the IAAF grant. “I don’t approve any payment, I don’t approve any schedule. There are two people that should be asked about this matter not me. “The problem, though, is that those two people are loyal to the sports ministry, but I charge you to be objective in this matter”, he said. The controversy over the missing money got to a head in midweek, with some AFN board members declaring that Gusau had been impeached, but he is now fighting back with a declaration of innocence. However, immediate past sports minister, Solomon Dalung, fired back boldly last weekend, with a declaration that no hammer can come down on Nigeria, because the country has not erred. That boasts might have inspired some of the AFN board members, led by highly outspoken technical committee chairman, Brown Ebewele, who is an ex-international athlete, to move for Gusau’s impeachment. Gusau has, however, raised salient points to back his innocence, while alleging in return that there is a scheme against him from the sports ministry.