Venerable Funso Awe, an activist and cleric, was the governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) in Lagos State in the 2019 election. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the need to re-engineer the party in preparatory for the 2023 general elections, among other issues of national concern. Excerpt: After your loss in the last governorship election, what is the situation now and your next line of action?
Definitely, one is in politics. One will still continue to be in politics. One’s dream for Nigeria and for Lagos has not been actualised. I am yet to actualise my dream for the nation. As far as there is life, one will still continue t be in politics. A lot of people left the NCP for other parties during the last elections. Would you still continue to be in the party?
Well, NCP needs a lot of re-organisation and re-engineering. If we can get our axe together, we can discuss and move the party forward. Many people left the party. The believe that nothing positive is coming out of the party. I have discussed with Femi Falana, a former chairman. I believe we can re-jig the party and make it work. If we cannot make it work, then, we will move because we will not remain in a sinking ship. Do you still believe there is hope for the NCP in Nigerian polity?
As long as the hen is not dead, it can still eat corn. I hope to put heads together with the party executive at the national and state level, we cannot continue to be in crises. There is a friction between the Lagos State executive and the national executive. If we cannot put an end to that, it means that we will be killing the party. But, one would have expected that after the elections, the leaders would pick up the pieces and restore peace in the party. What has happened so far?
Since after the general elections, nothing has been happening. It seems everyone has gone underground. But, that is expected after an election if a party does not do well. People need to rest, put their heads together and restart again. But, so far, nothing is happening. Who should take the initiative to resolve the crises and restore peace so the party can move forward in preparation for 2023 general elections?
The ball is in the court of the National Chairman, Yinusa Tanko, and the National Secretary, Comrade Ayodele Akele. I think they have the big roles to play in bringing everybody together again, especially the National Secretary. He is like the door, which sees both inside and outside. He should be able to bring everybody together again. Your party was a stakeholder in the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). How do you see the future of the coalition?
The coalition from inception was a still birth. It was an alliance that could not and can never work. Nothing has come out of it. Nothing will ever come out of it. How do you see the number of political parties? Don’t you think they should be reduced?
The number of political parties is just too many. This contributed to serious confusion during the election. Many of the parties, though not on ground, got votes, not because they and their candidates were popular, but because the number was confusing. Many people made a lot of mistakes in thumb printing. Nigerian democracy has not got to the state where such a number of parties can be managed. The winner-takes-all mentality of Nigerian politics is not helping matters. But, the new Ogun State governor said he would carry other political parties along, as was seen by the transition committee he put together before his inauguration. He seems to be ready to carry everybody along. For instance, the committee set up by the Ogun State governor included Reuben Abati. Abati was a deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), while Gboyega Isiaka was governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It means that the new Ogun State governor is ready to carry everybody along. Do you think the number of parties should be pruned? If so, how many parties do you think will be good for a country like Nigeria?
I suggest that the number of political parties be pruned. As far as I am concerned, we should not have more than five political parties. Activists in extreme left should be in one party. The Progressives should be in one party. The Conservatives should be in one party. This will stop defections. Parties should be based on ideologies. The parties will be stronger and will be able to challenge themselves more effectively. There will be healthy competitions. Going by the situation on ground, do you think the APC would be able to manage its 2019 victory?
They cannot. There are indications that this may not be possible. After President Muhammadu Buhari, Aso Rock will be vacant. There will be struggle for the position. Will they give the position to South as it should? If so, will it be given to South East which is not in the mainstream? Will it be given to South West? Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has not come out to say that he is interested in the position. But, there is no smoke without fire. The North can still hold on to the position. Any zone outside North Central where Buhari came from can still bid for the Presidency. You can even see how difficult it was for the APC to decide on the National Assembly leadership.
I foresee that between now and 2023, APC will have an implosion. Under Tinubu, AD metamorphosed to AC, to ACN and now to APC. That is one organisation that has evolved. Tinubu’s party is like Econet, which once answered Zain, and other names, but is now called Artel. In APC, anything can happen like in Charley Boy show. Would you say the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is a better alternative to APC?
Between now and the next three years, both APC and PDP will experience some changes. There will be movements between the two parties before the next general elections. It is possible that another political party may emerge from the two, which will put both APC and PDP out of business. How do you see democracy in Nigeria between now and 2023?
I think there will not be much difference. Nigerian politics will not witness much change. May be, the 2023 general elections will bring true elections. People may rise up against the status quo. The country needs restructuring. The present government is not ready to do that. Restructuring will be a major issue between now and 2023. Do you see the possibility of Atiku Abubakar, the PDP Presidential candidate for the 2019 election, winning in court?
No way. Nigerian judiciary is another problem we have. The system is not free. I don’t see Atiku having any case. INEC will support the election it concocted. They cannot say that what they did was bad. Who has ever won a case at the presidential election tribunal in Nigeria? Is there hope for the common man in Nigeria?
The problem with the common man is the common man himself. Until the masses rise up against the system and cease power, there is no hope for them. Between now and 2023, it will be business as usual. The masses allowed themselves to be bought over during the elections. So, their suffering continues.