Powered by RubiQube Ad Network TOMI FALADE, OYINKAN SOMORIN LAGOS – Death is truly the end for all men. No matter what was, or what was expected to be, the moment death occurs there is a sad finality to. For this reason, many with the means do everything to preserve their life because they understand that once that life is lost, there is no do-over. So when the death of Adewura Lateefat Bello, the young chartered accountant that lost her life in a manhole that emptied out into a canal, occurred in Lagos, the finality of her demise was perhaps what hurts the most. More worrisome is the fact that Adewura was not just a layabout who didn’t contribute meaningfully to her society. Adewura was an integral part of the society in her lifetime. She was not a girl out in the rain on a lark; she was heading home from her job as a professional when the cold hands of death gripped her. Her story is a cry out at the state of the Nigerian economy where an evidently skilled university graduate, who has worked hard to obtain a quality education and has represented Nigeria positively within and beyond, still depends on ‘okada’ as a means of commuting to and from work. She had worked with Deloitte East Africa, Rwanda precisely, before she returned home to serve her fatherland. The May 15 Incident When Adewura had reportedly left her place of work in Opebi, Ikeja, Lagos, on that fateful May 15, it was raining quite heavily. It is a common knowledge that when it rains in Lagos, even for five minutes, that is a direct invitation to flood, and May 15 was no exception. Around 7pm, she had spoken with her sister, Fadesola, on phone that she was around Cement Bus Stop, a popular location just two kilometres from Gowon Estate, Egbeda where her family lived. She was said to be rushing home to join her family in breaking the Ramadan fast, and according to those who should know, had told her sister what kind of food she would prefer to break her fast with. She boarded a bike to hasten her journey home and had barely five minutes to her destination before tragedy struck. When she didn’t show up on time, Fadesola called her again at 7:55 pm; the phone rang but she did not pick up. Based on the reports of a number of witnesses, when the deceased and her rider got to a particularly tricky section of the road, many who had taken shelter from the rain had warned the motorcycle rider not to pass through the flooded area, but he ignored the warning, believing he knew a safe part through the flooded road. The motorcycle rider, who had tried to cut a path through the rolling waves was no match for the water. Thus, the motorcycle tripped and both the ‘stubborn’ rider and his innocent passenger fell. He was able to save himself and the motorcycle but Adewura was lost to the tide. The flood swept her into the manhole that emptied into a bigger canal. “We warned the rider not to pass through the flood but he didn’t listen to us,” a mechanic in the area reportedly said. Tragedy When social media platforms were flooded with images of young Adewura, carrying the message that she had gone missing while on her way home from work, many reactions followed. Most were helpful and retweeted the message; some dismissive as they believed she probably ‘branched’ somewhere for a clandestine appointment; and a few were outright insensitive, alleging that she may have fallen into the hands of kidnappers or ritualists. But the true situation was worse than anyone realised. Like a dream, reality set in when more of the messages poured in as even after hundreds of retweets, reshares and reposts of the missing person message, no one could fathom the whereabouts of the bespectacled 26-year-old. Adewura died a gruesome death, swept away in a canal that she probably had passed by a thousand times. Her life was cut short by the waterways that should never have seen the light of the day in a truly functional society. It was until her body was recovered that many realised the extent of the negligence and degradation that caused the death of one so young. We Are All In Pains, Government Should Be Hell Responsible– Adewura’s Relative A very closed member of Adewura family, who spoke in strict condition of anonymity with our reporter said government should be blamed for their sister’s death. “When the case was initially reported to the police, what they did was that they took the bike man into their custody and they did not come to the site of the incident until the following day. They came to the site briefly the following day, May 16 and left. The incident happened on Wednesday and it was until Saturday that LASEMA came. And when they eventually found the body too, the body was left there. They called her mum, but she couldn’t identify her in the picture, so they left the body there for another two days before we, members of the family, came and called LASEMA to come and take the body. We found out that there was a body there and we went to look at it and discovered it was Adewura. The body was not found at Abule Odu, it was deep inside Baruwa, on the pipeline, inside the bush. The person that found the body brought the picture to them, and I don’t even think they went there. The DPO said he told them to go evacuate the body, and the body was there for another two days until we got wind that there was a body there and found that it was her and then called LASEMA. We called LASEMA over and over, but they still did not get there until 11. “Her mother is hurt, everybody is hurt; we are in deep pain. Her mother is inconsolable. Her father just died in December last year, so everyone is hurt. Her junior sister, Fadesola, is also inconsolable. Her older brother in Australia is also inconsolable. “I expect a sort of compensation from the government, a sort of penalty because the government is responsible for it. Maybe FHA or Lagos Government. That manhole should not be left uncovered. They deserve to be punished for what they did; for causing us so much grief, they deserve to be punished. “We intend to start a foundation for her. Adewura likes kids, and we can start a foundation for her and pay indigent students’ school fees.” What Her Colleagues Said Saturday INDEPENDENT visited X3M Ideas, Opebi, Lagos, to speak with Adewura’s colleagues as efforts to see the CEO of the establishment proved abortive as he was unavoidably unavailable. Two of her colleagues, who worked with her in the finance department of the company, spoke about her character and last moment. Mathew Adediji said, “I’ve known Adewura for about eight months because she joined us last year, and when she came in, I discovered she was a cheerful person. She was able to flow with the team quickly, and she showed her real self. We realised from her personality that she was here to stay and be part of us for a long time because she is a great team player. Aside from that, she’s a very dutiful person, she does not like work just piling up. If she finds that you are too busy and loaded with tasks, she comes around to help. She is not lazy, neither does she grumble. I was on leave on the day of the incident. We were together early this month to do our monthly account reconciliation. There are issues that come up when you are trying to do reconciliation of accounts, and at a point, I just gave it to her that ‘Wura, do this thing, maybe if you look at it you will get a better result.’ She did it and we finished the report on time and I went on leave. Just a few days to my resumption, I was told that yesterday, she didn’t get home and I should join them in prayer that she would be found. It was like magic. I had to believe that something went wrong somewhere. One of the things that I know about her for sure is that she does not keep late nights, and I know she is not wayward or the kind to lie to her parents and go to a party. She does not do that. I can vouch for that, 100%. There was a time when I used to drop her at Ikeja, Underbridge, so I can tell you about her movement. If she tells you she is going home, then she is going home. According to what we heard, the rain caused a lot of havoc that could have been avoidable if people had thought ahead and covered the manhole. It is a sad one because she is not the kind of person that should have been in that situation. “The first day I resumed, I was hopeful. When I opened the door, I found her seat very empty and it hit my heart, and I prayed for her to come back. She was always reliable. Now that her seat is empty, I know she is in a better place because during that time, she was fasting and I know God has a reason for taking her.” Bolu Adegboyega, on her part revealed that, “Wura was really a cheerful and sweet person, full of life and did her job well. May 15 was a little busy for her. She had a lot of things that she had to do. She also had to visit one of our client’s office, and a lot of people even asked her to do things for them. It was a busy day for her. She even commented at a point that today that she needs to go out is when she has so many things to do. There was even something I had asked her to help me do, but when I saw she had a lot to do, I told her not to worry that she could do it the following day; just to ease the stress. I left the office before her because before she returned from the client’s office, I had left. Normally she goes home to break her fast, and that day was no different. When she called her sister at Cement Bus Stop, she was telling her what she wanted to eat to break her fast. Since her demise, it has been tough. I sit opposite her. It is not easy seeing her empty seat; most times I just imagine her sitting there.” Who Is To Blame? While tragedy may have been averted if the manhole had been covered, one still has to question the events that took place to cause it being uncovered. In a recent report, residents were reported saying that whenever it rains, they have to keep it uncovered because the road becomes flooded due to the high volume of water. The report, quoting a resident, states, “it extends to the third street after Havana Hotel. All the water from Shagari Estate, Mosan and other places around were diverted here. That’s why the whole street is bad. “We had to open it anytime it rains so that the flood can pass through to the canal. If not, this place will become an ocean and destroy our properties. When we cover it, scavengers will remove it at night to sell to scrap dealers, so it’s always open.” The report also shares the statement of an elderly man, who identified himself as Baba Segun, “Even as the manhole looks small, the canal is very big. Once my dog fell inside, I went inside and realised I was walking as though in the subway. I think the canal terminates at a central sewage in Gemade Estate.” The report also shares that according to Baba Segun, after the flood subsided the next day, residents engaged two men to go inside the canal in search of Bello but they couldn’t get her. Conflicting Reports The question is: after the rider was rescued and taken to the police station, were the men and women of the police force not made aware of the fact that the rider had a passenger that was yet to be rescued? What efforts were made to return to the scene of the incident to attempt a rescue? Or did the rider and eyewitnesses simply keep the details of the accident close to their chests? These were the questions that plagued the minds of the Saturday INDEPENDENT team and this warranted a repeat trip to the Mosalasi Police Station where witnesses had said the rescued motorcycle rider was reportedly taken. On entering the Mosalasi Police Station, before our reporters were discovered to be journalists, a police officer had informed that the motorcycle rider had indeed been brought to the Mosalasi Police Station. However, upon discovering that the team were members of the press, the policemen on ground immediately became tight-lipped on the situation. They absolutely refused to give out information about the late Adewura and the bike man. One of the policemen, who had been identified as Inspector Solomon said he couldn’t help out because the Investigating Police Officer (IPO) attached to the case wasn’t on ground, and the Division Police Officer (DPO) also wasn’t on ground. Although he referred Saturday INDEPENDENT to the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for any information needed, the officers simply declined to answer any more questions. An eyewitness, who pleaded anonymity, shared that in actual fact, policemen were called to help out the following day. He added that the policemen were useless in the face of the situation, as they did nothing. The witness also revealed that four days later, May 18, officials of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA came to the scene but didn’t make any move either. Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered that they just kept looking into the manhole furtively, while giving the excuse that they aren’t trained to enter drainages. This then begs the question: what manner of emergency services are there when they show up days after incidents, only to inform people that they are not trained for the emergency situation they were called for? 12 days later, her corpse was reportedly discovered at the Canal in Abule Odu, Alimosho Local Government Area by a search team. “After the incident, we had to contribute money around here to put a metal fence around the manhole since we never can tell who the next victim could be, as we are in the raining season. Since we work here, we contribute money every year to buy truckloads of sand to fill the street to make it accessible for vehicles,” he said. Her corpse was said to have been found at a canal in Abule Odu in Alimosho local government area of Lagos. She was reportedly recognised through the shirt she wore last and a birthmark as her face had been badly damaged. However, in the police report Saturday INDEPENDENT obtained from the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Bala Elkana, the Police PPRO, Lagos State Command, the motorcycle rider had reported at the Gowon Estate Police Station after he was rescued with his bike. He told the police that he had a passenger who fell into the ditch and was swept away. He was detained for immediate questioning. The report from DSP Elkana also states that the family of the deceased went to report their missing daughter at the Gowon Estate Police Station. It was after this that LASEMA and other agencies were put on the mission to find the missing girl. The report further reveals that her body was swept from Gowon Estate to Ipaja where her corpse was reportedly found. The family was called to come and verify her identity and they initially couldn’t, but at close range, they found a mark on her body by which they identified her. The report, according to the police, concludes that they do not suspect anyone and are not investigating anyone because the rider who was involved had come on his own to report the incident, and people saw what actually happened. The family has reportedly taken the corpse and the police believe she has since been buried. Aftermath When Saturday INDEPENDENT got to the house of the deceased at 11 Road, A1 Close, Gowon Estate, two young men who identified themselves as security men for the Close disclosed that the family was, as of Thursday, not around. One of the men said it seemed the family had travelled. The two young men refused to disclose their names. Laide Ladoke, another resident of the area said she didn’t know it was Adewura until she saw the deceased picture at the mosque where prayers were said for her. According to her, the deceased was not the social type. “I heard this news from a neighbour, I didn’t even know she was the one till I passed the mosque where her poster was displayed. I feel so sad about her death, may her soul rest in peace.” Also reacting to the death via Twitter was Oby Ezekwesili, a former presidential candidate. She posted “Oh, No! Really? Canal? How? Gosh. Kai. This quite pierced through the heart. Been praying and waiting for good news on her. Government Policy And The Story Of Negligence In a recent study, it was posited that the duty of any government is ‘to promote the general welfare of the people’. According to the study, a government’s first duty is to the people it governs, and this duty is fulfilled in many different ways. This includes monitoring the economy, businesses, and banks; maintaining the postal service, education system, ‘roads’, and public utilities like water, ‘sewer’, and electricity; regulating the safety of food and medicine… In this, the government of Nigeria has failed Adewura, a bright and promising citizen. We are in a country where our best, brightest and youngest are being lost to the incompetence of those in power and others put in place to serve the people. In recent times, it has seemed like governmental policies are put in place merely to ensure and enhance the suffering of the people. In the first instance, if Lagos, Nigeria, had a better, more organised transport system, Adewura would never have been at the mercy of the waves or an over-confident ‘okada’ rider. A rainy night in a city like Lagos comes with the guarantee that the already haphazard transport system crumbles like a deck of poorly arranged cards. The streets descend to a level of anarchy where only the highest bidders can get a ride on a motorcycle and those with the normal fare are left by the roadside to make their way on foot or till a good Samaritan appears. Even the introduction of BRTs in Lagos seems now to be another money-spinner for a select few, and the bane of regular Lagosians. It is also a ripe time for uniformed officers to extort money from road transport workers, tricycle riders, and motorcycle riders. It is free for all situation and commuters bear the brunt of it while the government looks the other way. A uniformed road official is out on the streets not to assist commuters or drivers on the road, but to keep an eye out for unsuspecting or erring drivers. These officials do everything but help road users. Instead, at the slightest error, they bleed the erring driver of his or her money. Some even go as far as escorting the offender to an ATM machine so he or she can ‘settle’ them. This is made worse by the fact that Nigeria has no rail system and everyone depends on roads as a means of transport. Yet, the roads are in such deplorable states that commuters spend hours in traffic. Some desperate commuters, in a bid to circumvent bad roads and beat traffic, risk it all by taking the unsafe okada on highways and even bridges like the Third Mainland Bridge. Adewura had perhaps resorted to the use of ‘okada’ to get home through her community that suffers such deplorable roads even in a metropolitan city like Lagos. In other climes where a good education equals the opportunity for a good job and the simpler comforts of life like a personal car, Adewura’s death would never have occurred. Adewura’s Educational Background After her primary education, the late 26 year-old Adewura attended The Bells Comprehensive High School, Ota Ogun State, between 2003 and 2009 where she sat for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). Upon graduation in 2009, she proceeded to the University of Lagos (UNILAG) for a Diploma in Accounting, an educational pursuit she completed in 2010. Adewura was immediately offered provisional admission by the University of Lagos for a four-year degree programme, and in 2013, she obtained a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) Accounting. Career As a young accountant, Adewura’s thirst for knowledge saw her becoming an affiliate with the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). In February 2016, she joined Deloitte East Africa as an Associate Trainee in Rwanda, a position she held for just four months before she became an Audit Associate in the same organisation and location in May 2016. She served enviably in that position for two years. She returned to her home country, Nigeria, in October 2018 and joined Steve Babaeko’s X3M Ideas as a Finance Executive. She has since served excellently in the eight months she has been there if one is to judge by the testimony of her colleagues. Before her death, she was in the process of gathering experience in Audit and Advisory in Public and Commercial Sectors.