RAYMOND OZOJI/GLORIA ANAEZE ONITSHA/AWKA – As the newly elected members of the National Assembly from Anambra State took the Oath of Office on Tuesday, the spiritual leader of the Igbo nation, Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka (Ogilisi Igbo) and member, Board of Trustees (BoT) of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) has congratulated them on their inauguration, wishing them the best in the Senate and House of Representatives. Ezeonwuka commended the performance of Senator Victor Umeh during his brief sojourn in the Senate, noting that Umeh, who represented Anambra Central, for a year and few months made more positive impact there. The message, which was made available to newsmen, read in part, “I, Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka, the spiritual leader of the Igbo nation and BoT member of our great party, APGA, wish to use this medium to congratulate all National Assembly members from Anambra, the Light of the Nation State, on their inauguration along with others elected across the country as members of the National Assembly, Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I wish all of you happy inauguration and warm reception in choice location at Abuja. I decided to stay at home because I cannot visit all of you at your choice locations for reception. However, as Ogilisi and spiritual leader, I am with you in spirit. “I am present in sprit with powerful prayer for your successful inauguration and reception and most importantly, journey mercy for all that travelled from home to Abuja. I pray for their journey mercy back home.” Ezeonwuka revealed that he had begun to make plans to organise a civic reception to honour them at Rojenny Games Village, Oba, along with friends and well wishers, to further fecilitate with the lawmakers from Anambra State. He charged them to be good ambassadors of the state by showing visibility on the floor of the Senate and House of Representatives, as well as attracting dividends of democracy back home for the benefit of those who gave them the mandate to represent them at Abuja. On Umeh, he said the former APGA National Chairman did more for the people of Anambra Central and Ndigbo generally more than those who spent four years and even eight years or more in the National Assembly