Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Oodua Peoples’ Congress (OPC) on Saturday warned kidnappers and herdsmen abducting people in some parts of the South West to henceforth desist from their criminal activities or incur its wrath. Giving the warning in a statement issued in Lagos, Aare Prince Osibote, the OPC President, warned kidnappers and herdsmen abducting innocent Nigerians to stop their criminal activities in the South-West or relocate elsewhere. According to Osibote, who succeeded the late Dr. Fredrick Faseun as OPC national leader, “Enough is enough. Yoruba are peace loving and hospitable. We welcome everybody with open arms. But, OPC will not allow any individual or group to make the South West unsafe or turn Yorubaland into a den of criminals. “Time is up for these criminals abducting people. This is the final warning to them; they should stop now, or relocate elsewhere outside the South West. If they fail to do so, they will soon meet their waterloo,” he declared. Assuring South West residents not to panic, Osibote said that OPC was ready to confront and flush out the kidnappers and herdsmen abducting innocent Nigerians from their hide-outs. “We are watching the unfolding ugly developments with keen interests. Yoruba and other residents in the South West should not panic. We are however calling on the Federal Government to quickly address this insecurity problem before it further degenerates. “OPC leaders will not watch helplessly or fold their hands, while some criminals are making life difficult for people, and are behaving as if they are above the law,” he declared. While stressing that OPC as an organisation was committed to unity, peace, and harmony among Nigerians, Osibote decried a situation where some criminals had constituted themselves into menace against innocent citizens. “OPC is for peace but we are also against injustice and oppression. We want these criminals to be brought to book. We want security agencies to neutralise them. “Nigerians know what OPC can do. We can’t only bark, but can also bite, and this is why we are appealing to the Federal Government to find ways to tackle the insecurity challenge now,” he added. Expressing OPC’s readiness to join hands with government to tackle the insecurity problem, Osibote said that the organisation, as a stakeholder in the nation’s polity, would be willing to offer useful tips and advice on how to tackle the scourge. “OPC is ready to collaborate and partner with the government, especially the South West governors, in tackling the security challenge. We are close to the grassroots and as patriots, we are ready to assist government in tackling the problem,” he said.