Kim Jong-un’s sister handed flowers to South Korea today to mark the death of the country’s former first lady, According to Dailymail.co.uk. The condolences offered by Kim Yo-jong in Panmunjom marked the highest-level meeting between North and South since the failure of Kim’s second summit with Donald Trump in February. Meeting the South’s officials in the demilitarised zone, she delivered flowers and a message of condolence from the Pyongyang strongman after the death of Lee He-ho on Monday. According to Seoul’s top national security adviser, Kim’s sister commented that ‘we should continue co-operation in honour of Lee’s efforts for inter-Korean harmony’. Lee, a lifelong companion of late president Kim Dae-jung, died on Monday at the age of 96. Kim was known for his ‘sunshine policy’ of engagement with North Korea. His policies led to a historic summit with Kim Jong-Un’s late father Kim Jong-Il in 2000. Pyongyang previously sent a delegation to Seoul to pay respects when the former president died in 2010. However, the policy was largely abandoned when a conservative administration took power in South Korea in 2008 and cross-border ties soured. Lee made a rare humanitarian trip to the North in 2015, some five years after her husband’s death. However, she did not get to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un during the visit, despite doing so on a previous trip. Hopes for reconciliation were revived last year when the North agreed to talks with the West. Kim declared an end to nuclear tests and long-range missile launches last year amid a rapid rapprochement, paving the way for the first Singapore meeting with Trump in June 2018. However, relations have declined again in recent months. Trump’s second summit with Kim in Hanoi four months ago ended in failure after they two failed to agree on what the North would be willing to give up in exchange for sanctions relief. The abrupt collapse of the summit has been followed by a return to angry rhetoric on both sides. Since Hanoi, Pyongyang has accused Washington of acting in ‘bad faith’ and given it until the end of the year to change its approach, a deadline rejected by the U.S. And last month the North fired short-range missiles for the first time since November 2017.