Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A baby born on a train has been given free rail travel by Irish Rail until she reaches the age of 25, According to Inews.co.uk. She arrived unexpectedly on the 15:05 service from Galway to Dublin on Tuesday, and was born around 5pm, just as the train was approaching Kildare. It was only when Irish Rail catering assistant Emma Tote heard screams from a toilet that other passengers discovered that a woman was in labour. Ms Tote said she pushed open the carriage door to find a young woman about to give birth, and quickly alerted the driver, called an ambulance, and requested any medics on board lend their expertise. Unscheduled delivery
Fortunately, two nurses were travelling on the service and were able to immediately assist the woman. Members of the public gave their jackets and blankets in order to protect the woman’s privacy during labour. Ms Tote used her catering trolley to block access to the area. Ms Tote told RTÉ News she was pleased the baby was born safely: “I’m really delighted that I saw the little baby, and the moment that she took her first breath was the most beautiful thing ever.” – Ireland’s rail operator – paid tribute to the passengers and staff who assisted the mother in what they acknowledge must have been a challenging and stressful situation. The company said it would offer free travel to the baby girl until adulthood due to the bizarre nature of the delivery. Nurses run the show
Dr Alan Devine, who boarded at Kildare train station and, after a woman randomly asked if he was a doctor, was able to provide medical assistance in the latter stages of the birth, told RTÉ’s News at One that he was “terrified” by the circumstances, but pleased everything worked out. He said the whole thing was quite “chaotic”, but added the mother did “so well” and praised the nurses who he said were “running the show”. The nurses held onto the woman’s hand throughout, counted the contractions, and Dr Devine was able to sterilise the area for the baby. A girl arrived within around 20 minutes and both she and her mother are said to be doing well. They were taken by ambulance to the Coombe Hospital following the birth.