Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Super Falcons arrived in France for the 8th FIFA Women’s World Cup finals on Tuesday. The team landed at the Aeroport Charles de Gaulle just before 5pm on Tuesday, three days to the kick-off of the tournament. Although their best performance till date has been a quarter final appearance at the third edition of the competition in the United States in 1999, the Super Falcons are one of the only seven teams to have appeared in every edition of the championship since it was launched in China in 1991. The others are Germany, Norway, Brazil, USA, Sweden and Japan. In France, Falcons are up against host nation France, Norway and Korea Republic in Group A. They open their campaign against Norway on Saturday in Reims, before other matches against Korea Republic in Grenoble (12th June) and France in Rennes (17th June). Meanwhile the Nigeria Football Federation has educated the players on what signs, symbols and issues constitute threats to the integrity of the game. The Integrity Officer of the NFF, Okey Obi, took the Falcons’ players and officials through the fine lines of integrity variables in Austria on Monday night, ahead of their departure to France on Tuesday. In another development, Precious Dede, the former Super Falcons goalkeeper, believes Falcons have what it takes to qualify from Group A of the tournament. The retired goalkeeper, while in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT at Agege Stadium on Tuesday during the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) playoff games, said that with adequate preparation which she said had been given to the team, she saw them qualifying from Group A. “With adequate preparation which I think they have received, I see them qualifying from Group A. “It may look difficult because we have France there as the hosts but we have the players to hold their own in the group. “They just have to believe in themselves and approach every game with the right attitude, I will assure you that we can make it out of that group,” she said.