Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Teranga Lions have a star-studded side, arguably boasting the best defence on the continent and – in Sadio Mane – Africa’s in-form player today; they have a player capable of changing any difficult game. However, they’ve had talented generations in the past and failed to win the big one, so they must prove that they can pull it all together when it matters most. A convincing showing in this group, and they may find themselves on course for a maiden continental crown. Senegal qualified as Group A winners and were among the top seeds for the draw. Senegal’s best finish in the African Cup of Nations came in 2002, where they lost the final on a penalty shootout after drawing 0–0 with Cameroon. Later that year, Senegal made their first-ever world championship appearance at the World Cup. They eventually reached the quarter-finals of the World Cup, one of only three African teams to do so (the first being Cameroon in 1990; the other being Ghana in 2010). In the group, after defeating defending world champions France, they drew with Denmark and Uruguay, and beat Sweden in extra time in the round of 16, before losing to Turkey in the quarter-finals. So if pundits think the Teranga Lions are filled to the tilt in squad, they should look at that glorious set of 2002 upwards. Incidentally, Senegal first entered the Cup of Nations in Tunisia in 1965, and finished fourth in that debut appearance. They qualified for the next edition in Ethiopia in 1965 but were knocked out at the group stage. After that, the Teranga Lions failed to qualify until the 1986 edition in Egypt where they also exited at the group stage and they returned in 1992 in their home country and reached the quarter final. It was also the same story for them in the next edition in Tunisia. But in the 2002 edition in Mali, the Teranga Lions finished runners up. In all, Senegal have maintained relative consistency in qualifying for the cup of nations but they have not been able to mount the podium, raising strong hope that the current Sadio Mane-led squad could end the long wait. They will come against Algeria, Kenya and Tanzania at the group stage.