TOMI FALADE, LUKMON AKINTOLA, IFEOMA ONONYE, OYINKAN SOMORIN Lagos – When Busola Dakolo, wife of sensational soul singer, Timi Dakolo, alleged in an interview with Nigerian lawyer and media entrepreneur, Chude Jideonwo that Abuja-based Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo of the Common Wealth of Zion (COZA) raped her as a teenager, the internet literally went on fire. For many, the news is not unexpected, following Timi Dakolo’s outburst on social media a few weeks ago. In addition, Pastor Fatoyinbo had on another occasion been accused by a young lady, Ese Walter of abuse and sexual manipulation during what she later described as consensual romance, making Nigerians cast questionable looks at him. Dakolo, a celebrity photographer and mother of three shared that her encounter with Fatoyinbo had occurred when she was a 16-year-old in the Divine Delight Club at Ilorin, Kwara State; Fatoyinbo’s first trial as pastor of a church. She explained that as a member of the church, she was raped twice in the space of a week by the pastor, adding that he took her virginity. She alleged that the pastor raped her for the first time at her parent’s home and at another time in his car on a secluded road path. “Fatoyinbo showed up at our house unannounced early on a Monday morning,  and I was still in my nightgown, as my mother had travelled with my sisters and they were absent at service the previous Sunday. “Immediately I opened the door, he just pushed me, he didn’t say anything, he didn’t utter any word, he just pushed me to one of the chairs in my living room. “I saw him, he was removing his belt, he just said: ‘keep quiet, do what I want you to do and you will be fine. “He didn’t say anything after, he left to his car, returned with a bottle of Krest and forced me to drink it, probably as some crude contraceptive.” Dakolo further shared that Fatoyinbo, popularly called ‘Gucci Pastor’, because of his flamboyant fashion style had said, “You should be happy that a man of God did this to you.” Speaking to Saturday INDEPENDENT,  on the legal implication of the accusation, Olisa Agbakoba, former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), explained some of the technicalities involved in Dakolo’s revelations. “I don’t know whether the allegation is enough to get the pastor prosecuted but generally this is how the policy on rape works. If you are raped, the law will look for the first opportunities, what we call the first opportunity rule. I will want to know if you were raped on Monday at 3 pm; what were the circumstances because the difference between rape and sex is a thin line called consent and a lot of people are not clear where the line is. “For example, technically speaking, a husband can rape his wife. A husband who is drunk, comes in and demands sex from the wife, she says no and he takes her anyway. What I am saying is that casual rape happens every day. “Being raped when she was 16 and she is speaking up now means that she did not use the first opportunity to complain. If you were raped at 16 and you did not complain until you are 40, it is possible that you were raped but people will require you to explain why you kept quiet all these time and if her story is credible and reasonable, then you begin to reach the point when you can then ask the pastor, ‘here is the allegation against you’. But clearly, this lady seems not to have used the first opportunity rule by complaining when it happened. If someone is raped at 3 pm and the rapist leaves the victim at 4 pm, it is expected for the victim to tell somebody what happened to her. If you don’t do so for 10 years, it reduces the credibility of the story because rape happens between a man and a woman, nobody is there. When the woman does not complain immediately, it becomes questionable. “A lot of women feel ashamed and embarrassed to talk about being raped, so they bottle it up. Someone like Oprah Winfrey who was raped at 14 but she didn’t talk about it until 20 to 30 years later. Not in the point of view of having the person prosecuted but on the point of view of making it part of what the society is discussing. If Bukola Dakolo is talking in order to lend credence to the pastor being a serial rapist, then it becomes more believable. When a man is proved to be a serial rapist, the evidence of many women help to prosecute and convict the rapist. It was the evidence of a number of women that finally got Bill Cosby,” he said. Also speaking, Efe Omorogbe said he believes that the allegations are grounds for an investigation to be carried out. And if an investigation is carried out, it is even in favour of the accused party as it is an avenue to clear his or her name. If matters are not investigated, people would simply do whatever they. Ven. Funsho Awe on his part said, “Unfortunately, rape is something that happens everywhere in the world, but this time around we are looking at the first case of rape made viral because it is unusual. There are some things people do that they think they have gotten away with it but sometimes the past has a way of coming to haunt the offender. But again, one has to be very careful because this issue is a legal issue and one cannot pre-empt judicially, we shouldn’t just hear one person’s side of the story and make judgment. “If the person being accused refuses to speak up, then let the accuser take it up legally. But if the person who accuses didn’t take it up legally, then saying anything about this matter will be pre-judicial. Unless the person who is affected decides to take it up judicially that is when people can react to it and that is when the law can step in and visit the case,” the clergyman said. Sunday Abimbola, NBA Epe Branch Chairman, said while the person making the allegation can go to court, the problem is that she has to establish that rape actually happened.  “How does she hope to prove that she was raped? What is the meaning of rape, if you Google it, you will see that there are certain factors that have to be involved.  In the laws of Lagos State, there must be penetration, there might be laceration on the private part and then there must be semen in the private part. “Claims of rape have become a societal issue now, even if you have sex with your girlfriend and you have issues, because of the law in Lagos State that makes it a capital offence to rape a person, everybody now complain of rape and they are turning it into an issue, so that they can use it to punish their partner. It has become a source of exploitation for many unsuspecting men.” Meanwhile, Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, in a signed statement said the church had adhered to its policy of ignoring rumours from social media accounts knowing several statements made were to extort money from both himself and the church via blackmail, harassment, and intimidation. The statement further revealed that it was responding to the current allegation because it is criminal. According to the statement, the allegations by Busola Dakolo are fallacious, nonexistent and are denied in every measure. The statement said, “as an individual and as a church, we love and support people, and we will never condone any form of abuse, rape, harassment, or intimidation of anybody. I have never in my life raped anybody even as an unbeliever and I am absolutely innocent of this.” Further denying any knowledge of Busola Dakolo’s claims, Pastor Fatoyinbo said while she and her family attended his church in Ilorin in 1999, he never had any private interaction with her beyond his pastoral duties, adding that the leadership of the church has briefed their lawyers to begin criminal and civil actions against all individuals making such allegations both whether directly or by proxies. “We will as a church pursue every measure within the ambit of the law to bring the culprits to justice,” the statement further said.