Powered by RubiQube Ad Network TONY EZIMAKOR Chief John Oyegun, former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dismissed as “ludicrous and infantile” Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s attempt to dream up a phony ‘booby trap’ allegedly laid by the former chairman, as a reason for the failure of the party under the present leadership. Chief Oyegun said rather than invent excuses, Oshiomhole should accept that he lacks the temperament and capacity to manage the different interests and tendencies that constitute a political party. Oyegun was reacting to an advertorial by APC State Chairmen from the South-South geopolitical zone claiming that the former national chairman laid booby traps on the part of Oshiomhole which they blamed for the failure of the party. Recall that the Deputy National Chairman ( North) of the party, Lawan Shuiabu had recently, in a six-page letter, asked Oshiomhole to resign and allow the  APC commence a rebuilding process that can sustain the life of the party beyond the tenure of the present administration. He had, among numerous issues, accused the national chairman of destroying party cohesion which he blamed for the loss of 7 states to the opposition at concluded 2019 general election. But rather than respond to the accusation, the state APC chairmen from his zone rose with the statement which accused Oyegun of plotting Oshiomhole’s failure. Sources inside the APC national Secretariat claim that the advertorial was sponsored by somebody high up in the secretariat. But Chief Oyegun in a statement by Ray Morphy, his Media Adviser, said Oshiomhole’s incapacity could be a booby trap. According to him, Oshiomhole talks before thinking, which he (Oyegun) said is a huge minus for a leader. The statement read: “That statement of Booby Traps is ludicrous and infantile, an attempt to dream up justification for the failings of the party under Oshiomhole’s Chairmanship. “Oshiomhole fails because he lacks the temperament that is required to run a political party. He lacks the capacity to manage the different interests and tendencies that constitute a political party. “He engages his mouth before engaging his mind, so he offends party members, so how does that constitute booby traps by Oyegun, the erstwhile chairman. “Already, the Deputy National Chairman has confirmed that Oshiomhole runs the party without recourse to the NWC. “He acts in direct opposite of decisions taken by NWC. “No minutes of NWC meetings which in any event take place outside the party Secretariat. “How would you not have crises in the states with the confusion that Oshiomhole created when he gave the states the freedom to choose their methods of choosing candidates for the elections? “Much of the crisis in states arose out of sheer incapacity on the part of the current chairman. How did his (Oshiomhole’s) incapacity become booby traps by Oyegun? “Many party men were aghast at the unfairness and injustice meted them during the primaries. “Only a bad carpenter quarrels with his tools. Indeed Oshiomhole is degrading and de-marketing the party, rather than seek to bring more people on board, he is rather chasing people out of the party with his ‘agbero’ style of engagement”.