Ogun State Government has announced its plan to commence the fresh recruitment of graduates, skilled and unskilled persons. Disclosing this on Thursday was Governor Dapo Abiodun at a closed-door meeting of the high-ranking members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abeokuta, the state capital. Kunle Somorin, the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, quoted the governor as hinting that work had begun on a portal for interested job-seeking Ogun indigenes to register, on a continuous basis, with a view to providing them jobs suitable for their trade and academic qualification. “We shall be public-private sector – oriented in our governance model; we are going to have an inclusive government that will utilise valuable potentials that abound in the state, irrespective of party affiliations. “All graduates and those with vocational training across the state will give their information while we will endeavour to match them with potential employers, not only within the civil service but also with the private sector, with whom we are partnering. “We will send a local content bill for legislative action, such that investors will first look inward to the availability of workers in Ogun State and make our youths their primary catchment area when they site their companies here. “We have enumerated the roads and mapped them but we need your insight and buy-in on the roads most important roads to our people. So, help us list your first three roads in each local government and in the order of preference so that work can begin in earnest”, he stated. Meanwhile, the governor has further hinted that his government would rehabilitate 236 primary schools, one each from every ward of the state; in addition to engaging 10,000 farmers to be supported on mechanised farming with attendant value chain benefits towards making the agro-related business the bedrock of his administration. This, according to Governor Abiodun, is ultimately aimed at lifting Ogun people out of poverty. “Each farmer will get a parcel of land and be supported with clearing, seedlings, extension and off-taker services to ensure the profitability of their ventures. “The service which has the full support of President Muhammadu Buhari is a partnership arrangement to be funded by the Central Bank of Nigeria and the State Government”, Abiodun assured.