Lagos – Five undergraduates of the University of Lagos, UNILAG, and Babcock University accused of gang-raping a fellow student were on Thursday re-arriagned before a Lagos State Special and Sexual Offences Court sitting in Ikeja. The defendants are standing trial before Justice Abiola Soladoye and they had earlier been arraigned before her. The cross-examination of the complainant was however stalled due to the re-arraignment of the defendants. The defendants, Moboluwaji Simeon Omowole, 19, Chuka Edmund Chukwu, 19, Peace Nwankama, 19, James Ekene Aguedo, 20 and Osemeka Ijeoma Josephine, 20 were accused to be some of the students involved in the serial gang-rape of a student within the premises of the school. The students are now facing a five-count charge of defilement of a 17 year old child, permitting the defilement of a child in a premises, procuration and sexual assault. They have all denied the charges. Following their re-arraignment on a five count charge by the State Prosecutor, counsel to the defendants sought for adjournment in order to review their clients’ case and strategies for cross-examination of the star witness, the complainant. Counsel to the first defendant said it was observed that the counts of his client had been increased from one to two, with introduction of new date and venue different from the original charge. “It is our humble application in the interest of justice, the first defendant should be given amiable opportunity to meet this charge. Other counsel aligned themselves with the request nothing that this is required considering that the law provides for fair hearing and the penalty attached to the charge is life imprisonment. Justice Abiola Soladoye in her response said, “It is in the interest of justice to give these counsel some time to review and strategies in order to cross-examine the witness. She thereafter adjourned till October 15 for cross-examination of the compliant. Earlier, the matter was adjourned at the instance of Mr. Lawal Pedro, SAN, who was a Solicitor-General of Lagos State and Permanent Secretary Ministry of Justice now hired by the defendant James Ekene Aguedo over a three counts of defilement of a child, contrary to Section 137 of the Criminal Law Ch. C17, Vol. 3 Laws of Lagos State 2015, and procuration contrary to Section 140(1)(1)(a) of the Criminal Law Ch. C17.