Minna – A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) in Niger State, Sani Bello Foundation (SBF) has started the registration of kid beggars and destitute (Almajiris) that has flooded cities in Nigeria, particularly northern states with the intents of monitoring their activities. The SBF, in collaboration with Graceland Healthcare Development Foundation also engaged in administering free medical care including performing surgical operations on about 600 hundred (100) persons with various ailments in Niger State. Briefing journalists on its activities at Kontagora General Hospital, Vice Chairman of the Foundation, Usman Sani Bello said, “The Foundation operated 500 persons with various challenges including hernia, appendicitis, fibroids, lumps, goitre, hydrofoil.“The issue of Almajiri in Nigeria is very serious, and we are carrying out a survey to see how we can get their bio data because the issue is becoming more serious that the menace has gained a lot of concerns to well-meaning Nigerians, Muslims in particular,” he said. “I had always wanted to do a survey to capture the bio data of those we have in Kotangora now, with time we move to other local government areas in Niger State, then states or other parts of the country especially northern parts of the country where we have this self-inflicted crisis.” Usman explained the strategy used to get the children to include offering free medical care to them, saying, “I took a small sample of 100 and we have started well. The best way to shed light on them is get their details, put a name on their faces because once you call them Almajiri, it’s a general term to make them feel less human.” The SBF Vice chairman, who gave the age brackets of the Almajiris to be between 3 and 10 years said, “Once we put a name to the face, they become more human and people become more sympathetic towards their case. “Now that we have gotten their details, we will issue them with sort of identity card so that we can have their identities. And in a likely event where they are missing, the identity card can help us tell where they come from.” Findings so far have shown that the commonest and major health challenges the Almajiris suffer are malaria and typhoid but they have all been treated and given free packs. This, according to Usman, has gone a long way to guarantee their wellbeing.