Senator Gbenga Ashafa, immediate past lawmaker who represented Lagos East Senatorial District in the National Assembly has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari, the leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the party’s national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole “on the well-deserved sweeping victory which the APC recorded in the leadership elections of the 9thNational Assembly”. Ashafa, who was in the Senate from 2011 to 2019 also felicitated with the new leadership of the 9th National Assembly, Senator Ahmed Lawan and Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila on their emergence as the Senate President and Speaker, respectively. He said their election is a reward for the unflinching commitment and loyalty to the progressive ideals of the ruling party over the years. In a statement he personally signed, Ashafa said, “Your emergence is borne out of your long track record of service in the parliament, to our Nation – Nigeria and your strong fidelity to our great party the All Progressives Congress (APC).” While also congratulating the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, who had served as Ashafa’s vice Chairman in the Senate Committee on Land Transport in the 8th Session of the Senate, as well as the Deputy Speaker, Hon Idris Wase, he described Omo-Agege as a dependable ally who could be counted on to provide formidable support to the leadership of the National Assembly. He stated that “I equally congratulate His Excellency, President Muhamadu Buhari, the leader of our Party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole on this well-deserved “sweeping” victory recorded by the All Progressives Congress in the just concluded leadership elections in both Chambers of the National Assembly.” “ I also seize this opportunity to congratulate the Senators from Lagos State, Senators Oluremi Tinubu, Solomon Olamilekan and Bayo Oshinowo on their inauguration into the Ninth National Assembly while equally wishing their counterparts in the House of Representatives well”. “ I urge the new leadership of the National Assembly to provide the requisite legislative support to the Executive Arm of Government. Please permit me to reiterate that Nigerians now look up to you to provide His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari all the necessary legislative support that this administration requires.”