Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Police Command in Bauchi State has arrested one Emmanuel Patrick and Victor Oguwu for allegedly manufacturing fake drugs. The suspects were paraded at the State’s Police headquarters alongside 54 other suspects who were arrested for committing various criminal offences ranging from armed robbery, thuggery and cattle rustling. Speaking to newsmen at the weekend in Bauchi , the State’s Police Public Relation Officer, DSP Kamal Abubakar Datti said following a credible intelligence, a raid of black spots by the police was carried out at Gwallameji area of Bauchi, where the fake drug manufactures who specialise in producing local Codeine were arrested at Las Pasca Lodge in the area. According to Kamal, exhibits recovered from the two fake drug manufacturers include 71 bottles of locally produced Codine, 30 bottles of Tutolin, one carton of ORS used for codeine production, one pot of codeine already made awaiting refilling, 100 empty scavenged bottles, 60 bottles top cover and 120 product name tags. Speaking with one of the suspected ‘drug manufacturer’, Victor Achunam said he was a victim of a set-up ,stating that he had paid N140,000 for the supply of genuine drugs, but fake drugs were sent to him which led to his arrest. “I don’t manufacture drugs, these drugs were sent to me. I think I am a victim of setup because I paid N140, 000 two weeks ago for the consignment, only for these things to be sent to me. “The drugs came to me in uncorked bottles. But when I called to find out why it was so, the supplier denied that they were fake drugs. Although I am aware that it may be harmful, I wanted to sell the drugs to recover my money. I beg for pardon; I won’t do it again because I am wiser now,” he said. The PPRO also disclosed that 46 notorious Sara-Suka thugs were also arrested during the raids carried out by a combined efforts of the command Tactical team of operation Puff Adder, adding that 33 were charged to court while 13 are still in police custody.