Lagos – Tony Elumelu, Founder Tony Elumelu Foundation and chairman UBA Group and Heirs Holdings, has emphasized the need for collective efforts of all Nigerians  to lifts the  youths  from poverty to prosperity. Elumelu,who  spoke  while receiving an Honorary Doctor of Business (Hon D.B) degree by  Bayero University, Kano,emphasized the import of collaboration between the public and private sector to create more jobs in the continent. According to him:“Our young people need jobs that governments and big corporates alone cannot provide. By promoting entrepreneurship, creating favourable policies and building infrastructure to help these entrepreneurs, we enable them to create jobs, and become employers of labour”. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s  recent vow   to lift 100 million lives out of poverty,adding  that job creation and entrepreneurship will help to achieve this goal. He said: “There are a variety of ways to lift 100 million citizens from poverty, but two stand out. We can increase the number of jobs in the economy or we can create more opportunities for our young entrepreneurs to transform their ideas into small businesses that employ labour.” He added: “By promoting entrepreneurship, creating favourable policies and building infrastructure to help these entrepreneurs, we enable them to create jobs, and become employers of labour”. Elumelu  emphasized  the import of gender inclusion and a focus on quality healthcare and education to develop the over 60% of Africa’s population – the youth. He said: “For Africa to avert a demographic catastrophe, and achieve sustainable growth, we must support gender inclusion, education, healthcare and entrepreneurship,” he said. “National prosperity can only come from widespread economic empowerment. This empowerment will come from inclusion, education, healthcare, and entrepreneurship.” Earlier in his remarks, the Vice Chancellor, Bayero University, Prof. Muhammad Yahuza Bello,  said Elumelu’s conferment was in honour of his immense contribution to human capital development across Africa and especially in Northern Nigeria. The Dean, School of Postgraduate studies, Bayero University, Professor Umar Pate commended Elumelu’s commitment to lifting young Africans out of poverty. In his citation he spoke of Elumelu as “an illustrious son of Africa that has excelled at home and abroad, an economist that has empowered countless people through job creation and philanthropy, and a symbol of the African spirit of hope.” Other awardees were Senator Bello Hayatu-Gwarzo, LLD, Dr. Folake Solanke, the first female Senior Advocate of Nigeria, LLD and Prof. Abdulkadir Dangambo. Guests at the ceremony included HRH Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, the Emir of Kano; H.E. General Yakubu Gowon, Former Head of State; Chief Alfred Papapreye Diete-Spiff, Chancellor Bayero University Kano; H.E. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje OFR, Governor of Kano State; and the visiting Vice Chancellors from over 25 Nigerian universities. Elumelu has been an active advocate for entrepreneurship as the key to catalysing the economic development of Africa. He has achieved this through empowering African entrepreneurs in the Tony Elumelu Foundation’s flagship Entrepreneurship Programme.