Powered by RubiQube Ad Network AKURE – Oba David Olajide, the traditional ruler of Osi community, Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo state, on Tuesday escaped being kidnapped. Daily Independent gathered that about six kidnappers suspected to be Fulani herdsmen were said to have attempted to abduct the monarch. They were reported to have blocked the road leading to Osi community with cows, preventing him and other occupants of his vehicle to gain access into the community. It was learnt that the kidnappers attacked the monarch’s vehicle after it was forced to stop. The hoodlums were, however, said to have run away and left one of them behind when they realised that Oba Olajide was not alone in the car. Oba Olajide, while speaking on the incident, said he was coming from the Police Headquarters, Akure, the state capital, when he encountered the kidnappers. “I was coming from the Police Headquarters after receiving the good news that the woman and her step son abducted on Sunday had regained their freedom. “The kidnappers used their cows to block my car while some six men emerged from the bush, hitting my vehicle and ordered me to come out of my car. But they were disappointed to see many people coming out from the car. “They ran back into the bush while the young boy who was acting as their surveillance was apprehended because he could not leave the cows. He was handed over to the police,” Oba Olajide said. He alleged that the Fulani herdsmen within the area and Shasha community were mastermind of cases of abduction in the area. According to him, most kidnap victims disclosed that the hoodlums usually left for Shasha to charge their phones to negotiate for ransom. Femi Joseph, the State’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), confirmed the attempted abduction. Joseph said one of the suspected kidnappers had been arrested while the command had begun investigation into the matter. According to him, detectives from the command were on the trail of other suspects, saying: “I am assuring you that they will soon be arrested and brought to book.”