LAGOS – Air Peace has disagreed with the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) on its failure to report two past incidents that occurred between December 2018 and May 2019. A statement issued by Mrs. Toyin Olajide, the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Air Peace said that the airline immediately after the said incidents, reported them to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). Olajide differed that the airline had consistently failed to file Mandatory Occurrence Report (MOR), wondering if the statement was issued in good faith. The statement insisted that AIB misrepresented facts concerning the incidents in question. According to the airline, in the night of May 15, 2019, an Air Peace Boeing 737-300 with registration number 5N – BUK made a hard landing in Lagos on account of sudden change in weather at the point of touch down. Contrary to AIB’s position, Olajide said the airline duly notified NCAA of the incident the next day, May 16, 2019, before it followed up with a written communication and subsequently filed an MOR on May 17, 2019, with reference number APL/QM/279/19. She said that the MOR filed by the airline was received and signed for by the NCAA on the same date, adding that Air Peace complied with the statutory time-lime for the filing of MOR. Olajide queried if AIB intended to scare the flying public against the airline, which she said had consistently demonstrated zero tolerance for unsafe practices. The statement added: “We also expressed surprise at AIB’s dredging up of the incident, which occurred on December 14, 2018, en route Enugu Airport, during which oxygen masks were automatically deployed as a result of change in cabin pressure.” The airline said matters related masks dropping during flight was not peculiar to Air Peace, but common to airlines the world over. Air Peace said that the position of AIB on the issue was capable of misleading the flying public and also deliberately creating unnecessary fear in their minds. It insisted that the mention of “other airlines,” without naming them by AIB was a mere smokescreen, alleging that Air Peace was actually the target of the bureau. Recall that AIB had through a statement on Monday accused Air Peace of concealing aircraft incidents from it, thereby preventing it from carrying out its investigations as recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organisation Annex 13 on accident investigation. AIB said that three weeks after one of the incidents, it was yet to receive any notification from Air Peace.