Osogbo – Ahead of the July 5th 2019 judgment of the Supreme Court on the Osun Governorship Election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun State has gained more members. A chieftain of Action Democratic Party (ADP), Dr. Dotun Babayemi and 100 others have decamped from the party into the PDP. The party’s National Vice Chairman (Southwest), Dr. Eddy Olafeso received the members into the fold of party at a reception programme held party secretariat. The party also organised a special prayer session to seek the face of God on the legal matter so that the judgment will favour the party. Olafeso declared that based on the facts and evidences presented before the Apex Court, the judgment will favour PDP. The prayer session was led by religious leaders from the Christian, Muslim and Traditionalists who converged at the party’s secretariat along Ikirun to seek intervention of God on the judgment to be delivered on Friday July 5th 2019. Olafeso, who received Babayemi and others into the fold of the party on behalf of the National Chairman, Uche Secondus urged the party members to embrace the new members and allow them to function maximally and enjoy the benefits of the party. Olafeso, who expressed optimism that the expected Supreme Court judgement will go in favour of PDP, assured the people of Osun of good governance. According to him, the Ademola Adeleke-led government of Osun State will bring succour to the people through programmes that would have positive impact on the welfare of the people, adding that prompt payment of salaries of workers and emoluments of retirees will be put on the front burner. Speaking, Dr. Babayemi, who was the ADP Senatorial candidate for Osun West senatorial district in the 2019 general elections expressed his commitment to cooperate with old members to build a formidable party. He noted that PDP is a party that is committed to the well-being of the people adding that this was in tandem with his principle of life abundance for all. Earlier, the state Chairman of the party, Hon. Soji Adagunodo who extolled the virtues of Babayemi and some ADP members who joined PDP along with him gave assurances of level playing ground for old and new members. Delivering the goodwill message of Senator Ademola Adeleke, who was said to  be unavoidably absent, at the event, Adagunodo said Adeleke is committed to the unity of the party. Adeleke, according to him promised an all-inclusive government that will give the people of Osun relevance in scheme of things and ensure no section of the society faces neglect.