Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Lagos – The nation was thrown into utter shock when the track and field governing body, the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) on Monday, May 13, 2019, promised to sanction the country over the refusal of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) to refund its $135, 000 erroneously paid into its account in 2017. In the letter, the IAAF gave the country two weeks to refund the $135,000 in question, failure which the country would be sanctioned. The warning came on the heels of the disengagement of the then Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, who promised that his ministry was going to repay 50 per cent of the ‘missing money’ before leaving office. In the letter addressed to President of the AFN, Ibrahim Gusau, IAAF said: “We understand that the Minister of Sports will be stepping down soon and it will be imperative that you arrange for the return of the full amount within two weeks at the latest. Failure to receive the funds within that period, we will have no alternative than to apply appropriate sanctions against your federation,” the letter signed by IAAF’s Senior Manager, Governance, Member and  International Relations Department, Jee Isram. The IAAF, had in 2017 erroneously paid the AFN, $150,000 instead of the $15,000. When the mistake was discovered in just matter of days, a letter was written to AFN to refund the money. But Amaechi Akawo, who was Secretary General of AFN at the time when no board was yet to be constituted for the federation, was alleged to have informed the officials of the ministry who instructed him to withdraw the money being a signatory to the account alongside the federation treasurer, who are all staff of the sports ministry. But in a bizarre twist, Dalung, we learnt, instructed that the sports ministry would refund half of the money to the IAAF. However, sourced revealed that the president of the AFN, Hon. Ibrahim Gusau, used the money to prosecute the African Athletics Championships that held in Asaba last August. The source informed that Gusau was asked by the Sports Ministry top brass if the said money should be used for the Asaba championship or be refunded. “To the surprise of all, Gusau ssaid that the money (N39 million) should be used for the prosecution of the African Athletics Championship. So the ministry gave him the money,” noted the source. However, efforts at getting Gusau to deny or admit this failed as he refused to answer his call. He will also not respond to SMS to his number. Despite repeated correspondences on the matter and two years gone, the IAAF is yet to be refunded. However, weeks after the expiration of the ultimatum and the failure of Nigeria to heed to the threat, nothing has been heard from the IAAF and this give rooms for many questions to be asked on the issue such as: Has the money been refunded? Has IAAF suspended its threat to sanction the country? Has the culprits been brought to book? Why is it taking so long to hear anything on the issue again? Before leaving office, Dalung has accused the IAAF of ‘blackmail’ for the ultimatum given to the AFN. Even with that, analysts have expressed outrage at the delayed refund, and have accused the sports ministry of denting the nation’s image. Instead of refunding the money and ending the embarrassment, officials have been trading blames and refusing to speak on the matter. A former member of the AFN gave the hint that Dalung, authorised the disbursement of the money. And speaking at the just concluded 2019 Okpekpe Road Race held on Saturday, May 25 in Edo State, Dalung questioned the claims made by IAAF, claiming that Nigeria did nothing wrong. “I think Nigeria has been unfairly treated because the issue has been painted and promoted as if there was any wrongdoing on the part of Nigeria,” Dalung said. “Certainly not, grants were released to Nigeria on May 17, 2017. IAAF on May 19 confirmed the transaction; those from IAAF after two months turned round and cried foul that it was a mistake. “I smell rat in the whole thing and I believe that the whole thing has been orchestrated in an attempt to blackmail Nigeria,” Dalung told journalists. He continued: “Even when we went into it, we were not even convinced what the mistake was, is it a mistake of Nigeria or that of IAAF? “When did they realise they made a mistake when the transaction was confirmed? I made a mistake in transferring money… I realised within 10 minutes and I called my bank and I retrieved the money. Why did it take IAAF two months to realise a mistake? An international organization, highly reputable? “I think it is not about money erroneously credited to Nigeria, but there is a calculated attempt just to diminish and destroy Nigerian athletics, otherwise, I don’t see why they call it a mistake. We didn’t apply for a grant.” When asked what the country will do at least to save it from possible ban as threatened by the IAAF, Dalung said: “Ban us for what? What has Nigeria done? What is the crime? Did we steal money from them? Did we ask them to transfer money to us? “They transferred money to us, they confirmed the transaction to us, and then after two months, they woke up from slumber. “Is IAAF telling us they are as much disorganised as that? Where Nigeria is wrong, we will own up but you cannot wake up and just realise that they have something to hold on to. We are not even convinced that there is any mistake, the money was sent for the Golden Relays and it was done. Are they saying there was no Golden Relays? “I think those promoting this are trying to cry blue murder; I think they are just enemies of this country and we should ask questions,” the minister concluded. However, determined to clear his name in the controversy Gusau is urging the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Independent Corrupt Practice Commission (ICPC), Nigeria Police and other national investigative agencies to probe both the AFN and the Sports Ministry to unravel the saga. Gusau is worried that his reputation is being battered for a thing he knows nothing about. On Tuesday, May 28, some AFN board members suspended Gusau and set up a five-man panel to probe his alleged involvement in the IAAF missing money. But Gusau felt he is being victimized. “I’ve tried never to join issues with anybody, but in the last three days, my image has been battered for a thing that I don’t know anything about,” Gusau said. According to him, the AFN board was inaugurated in late July 2017, and his first contact with IAAF on assumption of office as AFN president was in London when the country participated in the World Championships. He said he was shocked when IAAF officials asked him to refund the sum of $130,000. “This sounded very strange and new to me. The IAAF officials told me office is continuously. There, I was told they (IAAF) sent money for Warri Relay. Yes, IAAF normally sends $20,000 to assist its affiliate federations and they said an excess of $130,000 was remitted into AFN account, and that I should refund it. “Incidentally, there was a meeting and the former Sports Minister was at the venue. I arranged a meeting between him (Dalung) and IAAF officials. And there, the Dalung concurred and said he would arrange to send the money. The IAAF followed with a letter, which copy is available. And I did a covering memo and sent to Dalung. “For almost a year, nothing was done, and there was the Asaba Meet in 2018, and the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Sports and Dalung were there and I arranged another meeting, where Dalung directed the Permanent Secretary to take the account number of the IAAF promising that they would pay the money but in bits owing to cash constraints the ministry was facing,” Gusau said. He added: “IAAF kept writing letters reminding the AFN about the money. The last was in Yokohama, Japan, when we went for the World Relays. They said they were monitoring the Nigerian situation, and were sure there would soon be a change of government and urged us to quickly settle it (the money). Yes, we should ask questions and Dalung must also be ready to answer some of the questions. Because few hours to his departure, Dalung on Tuesday, May 28, we gathered returned some parts of the missing money to IAAF. It was gathered that Dalung in a phone call with the IAAF’s president, Sebastian Coe promised to return some money which he did before he left office. This was confirmed by top officials of the AFN in separate interviews. The Vice President of AFN, Hon Olamide George after his meeting with the former minister, said 50% of the missing money was paid by the sports ministry to avoid ban from the IAAF. “It is important to know that the ministry has paid part of the money to the AFN. The sad part is that the board was not even aware that the ministry had paid some money back until when the minister called for a meeting and he opened up and the president could not deny,” he said. His position was also collaborated by one of the board members, Brown Ebewele who said “Yes, the former sports minister has communicated with the president of IAAF on the issue and they reached an agreement. The IAAF is no longer sanctioning Nigeria.” The Technical Director of AFN, Sunday Adeleye, also confirmed that Dalung had paid the said 50% money. When asked when and who will pay the balance, he stated that the ministry, not the AFN will pay up. “The people who know about it have already agreed to pay back 50% of the money to IAAF which includes the ministry. The ministry will pay the remaining balance because it is their debt not AFN,” he said. 