The plan by the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), an association of Fulani herdsmen to establish Fulani Youth Vigilante groups in South East communities has set tongues wagging with many questioning the rationale behind such plan. This is becuase the group has often been linked with the various killings and kidnapping that have been perpetrated in the country in the last few years. According to MACBAN, the association wished to compliment efforts of its host community and other constituted security apparatus in  addressing the rising insecurity and restore peace back to troubled communities in the region. Leaders of the Miyetti Allah disclosed the plan during the South East Security Summit organised by the South East Chambers of Commerce, Mines and Agriculture (SECCIMA) held in collaboration with South East Governors Forum (SEGF), in Enugu on Thursday, June 20, 2019. Alhaji Mohammadu Kirowa, National President of MACBAN, who spoke during the meeting, regretted that once insecurity was mentioned in Nigeria, the first idea that comes into minds was Fulani herdsmen. Kiroma, who was represented by Alhaji Baba Usman Ngelzerma, MACBAN National Secretary, maintained that South East had been a good host to his people, hence the body had always condemned all forms of violence and criminalities. Kirowa said the group planned to establish Fulani Youth Vigilante groups, stressing, “The Fulani Youth Vigilant body will be working with the security, the Neighborhood Watch or vigilante to ensure security in all communities, as it was done in Enugu state. “We will solicit for your support and cooperation in adopting dialogue where problems exist as a means of brokering peace and to report cases against our members to either the Fulani Youth Vigilante Group, state or local branch of the association.” Since the Miyetti Allah made the request, a lot of Nigerians had been speaking on the issue, most of them expressing anger, considering the sorrow Fulani herdsmen had caused the nation. Thus, the question arose, should their request be granted? Ohanaeze Reacts, Says No To Miyetti Allah Reacting, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the apex socio-cultural group of Ndigbo, vowed to resist the proposal, even as it accused the herdsmen of violating Igbo women in their farms, among other crimes. John Nwodo, the Ohanaeze President General, maintained that establishing such vigilante would turn the herdsmen into an army of occupation and an invitation of unavoidable confrontations with the South East youths, hence, the plan must be resisted. He said that should such request be granted the herdsmen, it would spell doom for Igboland. Nwodo said: “Ohanaeze vehemently opposes any attempt by Miyetti Allah to establish any form of vigilante group in Igboland. These are people who have ravaged our farms, raped our women and slaughtered their husbands. As at today, they technically enjoy immunity from arrest and prosecution. They freely display AK-47 rifles not permitted to be used by civilians. “Extending this measure to them will turn them into an army of occupation and invite unavoidable confrontations with our youths. We will resist such a policy with every might available to us.” The Miyetti Allah’s plan, it would be noted, came after former President Olusegun Obasanjo had made public an alleged Fulanisation and Islamisation plot. The Federal Government also had announced plans to establish a Fulani Radio and donate N100 billion to Myetti Allah to help check insecurity in the land. South East Governors Reject Request Chief David Umahi, Chairman, South East Governors’ Forum and Ebonyi State governor, in his reaction, described the idea as a huge joke, unacceptable to the people of the zone. Umahi, in a statement, said while there was nothing wrong for non-locals to have a vigilance group for security reasons, he believed that the Miyetti Allah Association was not serious in their proposal and should not use the issue of security to insult the South East leaders. He stressed that no governor from the zone would allow the Miyetti Allah group to form any vigilance group in the zone, adding that the South East governors were conscious of the enormous responsibility upon their shoulders and would not allow anything capable of compromising the security and development of the zone. Miyetti Allah Request Is A Slap On South East – GDM Chieftain Chief Nwanozie Theophilus Karaonyeuloaso, former Councillor and chieftain of the Grassroots Democratic Movement (GDM), Nkwerre LGA, Imo State: “The Miyetti Allah cattle breeders are funny in their request. What has a vulture got to do with a barber and what business do we as people of the South East have to do with Fulani vigilante? “Is it part of our culture? Are we cattle breeders? In the Southeast, is cattle breeding part of our business?  In fact, the request is a slap on the face of our culture as well as an insult to our collective sensibility. We rear goats, sheep, birds as a poultry business. But, can we go to any part of the North and request to set up any outfit for this? “To me, the request is part of the greater design to brand us as second class citizens in this country. It should be thrown into the almighty Atlantic Ocean so that it does not resurrect.” Ndigbo Doomed If Miyetti Allah’s Request Is Granted – UPN Stalwart Mrs Adaugo Felicia Amaoha, a retired teacher and woman leader, Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), Mbaitoli LG, Imo State: “If a Fulani vigilante group is allowed to operate in the South East, then the Igbo nation is doomed. One morning, the Hausa/Fulani herders will just come here and finish us. Who are these Fulani vigilante and who will they protect? “Do you give a rat a piece of meat to keep for you or can you throw a cockroach to a cock and expect the cock to spare it? Let them ignore what they call by Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association.” It Will Be Suicidal To Give Miyetti Allah Such Permission – Medical Doctor Dr. Innocent Nosike Iwagwu, a Benin-based medical doctor, said: “Such request, if granted, will not only be counter productive, but will also be suicidal because I saw it as a plan by the Buhari’s administration to deploy more killer herdsmen to the South East for the serial elimination of the Igbos. “In fact, such request is an insult on the entire South Easterners and I can assure you that the Idigbo are ready for every plan that the Buhari’s  administration has for them. It is now getting clearer every passing day the true agenda of Buhari’s administration. “This is a government that is being accused of aiding and abetting the Fulani headsmen’s atrocities across the country. Instead of the President to prove to the world that there is no truth in such accusations, he is adding more salt to injury. It is very unfortunate. “My only happiness is the spontaneous reactions that greeted the so-called request of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association. Nigerians couldn’t have expected less. Every well-meaning Nigerian saw the request as a way to test the intelligence of the Ndigbo and the reaction that greeted it shows that there ill be serious trouble, because, such request if granted, is an indirect deployment of illegal militias or troops to  the South East for the systematic elimination of the Igbos. “If not, why can’t they establish such Fulani vigilante in Katsina and Zamfara states, the two states now mostly being tormented by bandits? “The truth of the matter is that they are already aware and apprehensive that the country will not be at ease if by 2023 the South Easterners are not supported to produce the President of this country. This is major reason why every machinery is being put in place to ensure that Ndigbo will not only be denied of producing the President, but will also be prevented from raising their voices against the injustice.” The Miyetti Allah’s Request Has No Basis – Cleric Pastor Amasingha Daniel, MInna-based cleric, stated: “My answer is capital NO! Can an Igbo man become vigilante in the north, the equivalent of what this Fulani group is asking for? If it is possible for such a thing to happen, then what made you think that a Fulani man would, with all the bad things being ascribed to them, be allowed free access in the East? “Are they MASSOB, IPOB or any of the groups from the region? Or, on what basis should anyone think Fulanis should be allowed unfettered access to Igbo territory? Is Eastern Nigeria one of the Fulani conquered territories or one of their subjects? “The problem with us in Nigerian and our government is that we unconsciously create problems where none existed and when it will boomerang we start running helter skelter looking for non-existing emergency solutions. “By the way, where are these Fulanis coming from? Are you telling me that the Nigeria Immigration Services (NIS) doesn’t take note of them as they migrate from neighbouring countries into Nigeria? Or, are you telling me that you as an Igbo can migrate unhindered and without interferences to any of our neighbouring countries freely without anybody asking you questions? “What is our government doing or what has the Federal Government done to protect Nigerians from these Fulani bandits other than what we read censored on the pages of newspapers or seen/heard on electronics (radio and television). “I just want the government to understand one thing. They should let the sleeping dog lie. Nigeria has enough challenges to keep the Federal Government busy if they really want Nigerians to appreciate what it is doing to protect the lives and properties of citizenry. “I think it is instructive for relevant agencies to know where these Fulanis are coming from and try and block the lapses instead of even thinking that they are preventing the movements of Fulani armed bandits in such a way instead of considering that setting up vigilante group of Fulani extraction in the east will end armed banditry in Nigeria.” It Is A Preparation To Invade Igboland – NYCN The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), South East Zone, in its reaction, described the request by Miyetti Allah’s plan as a preparation to invade Igboland. According to NYCN, Myetti Allah’s request appeared like a confirmation of the rumoured hidden agenda of Fulanisation and Islamisation of Nigeria, even as it warned that any attempt to insult Ndigbo would be met with stiff resistance. Afenifere, PANDEF Kick The pan-Yoruba socio-cultural body, Afenifere, saw the plan as an affront on the generality of the Igbo nation. The Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), also condemned the plan, saying the Miyetti Allah should rather send their battle-ready Fulani vigilante to the North East geo-political zone to tame the Boko Haram terrorists, who had been wreaking havoc in the country. It Is Height Of provocation – Okwu, Veteran Politician Chief Maxi Okwu, a seasoned politician and former factional National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), in his reaction, described the Miyetti Allah’s plan as the height of provocation, adding that he was shocked that the group’s leader who made the proposal was still walking free without having been called in by security agents. According to him, “The braggadocio which MACBAN is exhibiting in the past few years is as a consequence of the body language of their grand patron, President Buhari. I call on the South East Governors to call their bluff and damn the consequences. Already, there is palpable fear and anxiety in the South East as a result of this saber rattling by MACBAN, who seem to be the face of Fulani Herdsmen/terrorists. The Request Is Madness – Anike, EU Boss Hon. Charles Anike, National President of the Eastern Union (EU), said: “Such plan, if it is true, is madness. What are they, Police, or soldiers? These people are taking too much for themselves this time and we must resist them. “Don’t we have the Bakassi Boys and other vigilante groups in the East? We don’t need Miyetti Allah for anything in the entire Eastern Region. By the way, what is the problem in the East, whether you call it South East or South-South? Are we at war in the East? “Why can’t the Miyetti Allah form their military squads in the North East and North West, and even North East, where Boko Haram, Fulani herdsmen, bandits and kidnappers are having free days? This is purely a case of someone who has a log in his eye, but is busy struggling to remove a spec in another’s eye. Please, let the Miyetti Allah and their sponsors first tackle security challenges under their nose before they will help the Easterners. “We believe that this people have some evil agenda, otherwise, how can they be talking of setting up vigilante groups in the East, when insecurity in the North is already a global scandal. They are plotting to infest the East with the evil going on in their home place. The Eastern Region is very peaceful more than other societies in the country. So, we don’t need vigilante from anybody. “The present postures of the Miyetti Allah in the issues of security in the country are very suspicious and it goes a long way to show that our security agents have accepted their failure on their mandated duties of securing lives and property in the country. And we expect mass resignation/retirement of our security leadership. “We don’t want Miyetti Allah and will resist any attempt to impose them on us. Let the APC government employ them in the North, where we are currently having serious security problems. Why can’t they request that we send the Bakassi Boys to fish out the criminals terrorising the North? “Or, don’t they know that the Bakassi Boys can overwhelm even the insurgents. I bet you, the combination of the Bakassi Boys and the OPC in the South West can put to an end to the evil activities of the blood suckers in the Northern Nigeria. “Except for sabotage, the combined forces of the Bakassi Boys and the OPC will put to rest the evil that has remained with us in the North for about 10 years now. Just that we don’t value what we have and because some group of people have made insecurity in the North their business.” Another Plot To Annihilate The Igbo Race – PDP Chief Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Imo State, described the proposal as President Buhari’s Islamisation and Fulanisation programme and another plot to annihilate the Igbo race, adding that it could be the president’s idea of state and community policing project. He commended Chief Nwodo, the Ohanaeze helmsman, for the prompt rejection of what he termed as planned herdsmen infiltration of South East.