Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Brad Pitt is thought to have been ‘pushed to his limits’ in his ongoing divorce with Angelina Jolie and has now called for a judge to ‘impose a final date’ on the signing of the papers. The couple split in 2016 but nearly three years on they are no closer to finalising their divorce amid claims Angelina has been stalling.
After two years of marriage and ten years together, the pair shocked fans when they split; they share six children together, Maddox, Pax, Zahara, Shiloh, Knox and Vivienne. Now however Brad is thought to have called on his legal team to up the ante as he is ‘sick and tired of Ange constantly moving the goal posts’. Brad and Angie filed for divorce in 2016 (Picture: AP) ‘He has been incredibly patient throughout the divorce process despite being pushed to his limits on many occasions,’ a source close to the actor has alleged. ‘But he’s finally had enough, and while he is a relatively calm person, he can only be pushed so far. He’s sick and tired of Ange constantly moving the goal posts and stalling their divorce month after month — painfully dragging out the process which he now feels has become almost a game for Angelina.’ Brad has two anticipated releases in 2019 Speaking to The Sun, the insider added that he is hoping to impost ‘a financial sanction’ on Angelina if she fails to adhere to the ruling. Brad and Angelina had been dating since 2004, after meeting on the set of the action comedy Mr And Mrs Smith. Brad was married to Friends actress Jennifer Aniston at the time but rumours of an affair with Angelina followed the pair throughout filming and promotion of the movie; Brad later admitted that he did fall in love with Angelina on the set of the film despite having claimed otherwise. The pair met on the set of Mr And Mrs Smith Four months after Jen filed for divorce, Brad and Angie were pictured on holiday together with her son Maddox. They confirmed their romance in January 2006 when they announced they were expecting their first child together. Angelina filed legal documents in September 2016 citing irreconcilable differences; the separation date is listed at September 15 2016.