LAGOS – Mr Tayo Ayinde, Chief of Staff (CoS) to the Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State governor, has said the administration will deploy a feasible strategy to achieve its campaign promises to Lagosians, urging civil servants to brace up for the implementation tasks, which, he said, would be demanding. Ayinde said the Sanwo-Olu government would remain focused on creating a state that would be safe for living and business, pointing out that the government would not shirk from its responsibilities to the electorate. He spoke during his maiden meeting with workers in the Governor’s Office, assuring them of improved welfare, while noting that the reward would only be benefited by those who work hard in their areas of duty. Ayinde said: “Improved productivity is vital to the success of this administration and I can assure you that we won’t joke with your welfare. We want you to increase your work output and show greater commitment to the task of delivering campaign promises of the governor. We will reward hard work and compensate those who are committed to our objectives.” Ayinde, who said that having worked with previous administrations, he knew the expectations and responsibilities of his office, which he described “as the engine room of the government,” advised civil servants to work together with common goal. He stressed that the success of the administration would be dependent on seamless implementation of government’s policies by the workers. “There is no doubt that I am aware of my line of duty and I know what the office of the Chief of Staff entails. I will not compromise the rule of engagement and every worker will get what he deserves in terms of welfare and other benefits,” he said. Ayinde promised to strengthen capacity building programme for workers, adding that deserving employees would have opportunities to attend local and international training for improved performance and service delivery. He said: “We are going to send you on training and you should not see this as a favour. It is your right to be exposed to capacity building exercise in order to improve your performance and service delivery. If private firms train their workers, why can’t government do same?” He said staff allowances would be reviewed, but pleaded with the workers to step up their performance and dedication to duty.