Lagos – This may not the best of times for Nigeria as socio-political and economic challenges facing it may have beclouded the sense of judgment of most Nigerians, no matter how good the intention of government might be.
Consequently, the recent call for true federalism by President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to generate diverse reactions from stakeholders and ethnic nationalities, particularly, on the sincerity of the president.
In fact, to some people, the President made the assertion in his usual propaganda and gallivanting to divert attention and as well douse agitations, resulting in heating up of the polity.
Also, others consider it as a mere political talk as they think that his body language and that of his party, All Progressive Congress (APC) negate the call for restructuring.
The negative perception may not be discounted with a wave of hand as according to some analysts, restructuring was on the policy agenda of the ruling party and was part of its manifesto in 2015.
Besides, the El-Rufai, Kaduna state governor committee lend weight to the restructuring, only for the party to have jettisoned it after gaining power and all through its first four-year term.
In separate interviews with some of the stakeholders, including, Yinka Odumakin, Spokesperson for Afenifere, Ezenwa Nwagwu, Chairman, Partners for Electoral Reform, Kola Are, Secretary, Yoruba Self-Determination Advancement Forum (YOSEDAF), Wale Ogunade, Lawyer and Aremo Oladotun Hassan, President, Yoruba Council of Youths Worldwide, they lamented that though the President did not explain what he meant by true federalism, they doubt if he really meant what he said as there are no concrete signs to prove his seriousness.
Odumakin, while reacting said that the antecedents of the President and his party on the matter, is the reason why Nigerians should be guided by the wise saying that, ‘you should be cautious when the Greek approach you with a gift’.
“We will appear like simpletons if we get excited by the President’s latest comment except we see concrete steps to enthrone true federalism.
“The call would appear a ploy to douse agitation or take the wind out of the sail of some opponents who secured support across the country because of commitment to restructuring.”
Odumakin further noted that the 2023 game may not be out of the motif except the comment is followed with demonstrable commitment.
He added that they have so much ridiculed the whole idea of restructuring by lambasting the 2014 National Conference reports, saying when they spoke with one million Nigerians they got one million definitions of restructuring and keeping mute on the matter after El-Rufai submitted the report of his committee.
“Their support group, ACF even said that the reason they rejected Atiku at the polls was because he promised restructuring,” he said.
Nwagwu, said that he did not think that the elite in the country generally are clear about what they mean by restructuring.
“I don’t think those who mouth it with them also have conceptual clarity. So I will just tell you how some of us want the country restructured. Chapter 2 of our constitution is explicit about how the country can be restructured. Give free and compulsory education from primary to the university. Democratise the wealth that are in the hands of a few people who do not have tribal marks, and so on.
“In the light of the above, can you say the President or those before or coming after him are not playing ‘Kalo Kalo’ with this wearing out cliché,” he queried.
Are, in his view stated that the body language of the current government negates any hope in restructuring this country under their watch in either institutional or structural restructuring.
He said that this present administration has shifted conventional goal post on more than 80 per cent of their promises since 2015 which tends to the fact that they cannot be trusted to do the needful on restructuring.
“The new found movement on the topic is only a product of their usual propaganda and gallivanting subterfuge in diverting the thought process of the country. Unfortunately, when this government gained this current power and fame, they distanced themselves from all known truth,” he said.
Ogunade, in his own view stated that President Buhari’s comment is just a way to give insight to what he is thinking about.
Obviously, the clamour for structuring or restructuring according to him is on, and it is something that any right thinking individual or government will want to look at.
Hassan, lamented that it is most disheartening to see the nation’s democracy being reduced to a chess fluke and ceremonial charades, far from rule of law, good governance and realistic democratic tenets expected in the modus oprandi letters of a sovereign state.
He said that the call for restructuring by the APC and President Buhari led government with the appointment of El-Rufai led Committee, has not materialized.
“As at date, the resolution and communiqué is now part of the archives monuments and job for the boys, as quarried against the Goodluck Jonathan’s 2014 CONFAB Report.
“The El-Rufai led restructuring team has only succeeded in deceitfully keeping Nigerians busy and distracted from the hash and obnoxious system that deviates from the ethos and principles of democracy.
He however warned that the present political clime should not be overheated with 2023 brouhaha when the incumbent is yet to be sworn in for second term.
“More so, our precarious state of insecurity should be on the front burner above parochial and primordial unprofitable ventures.
Adding, “Nigeria and Nigerians deserve good governance and fair and equitable distribution of wealth and resources across the nation, wherein nepotism and ethnic bigotry should be played down as a matter of necessity.”