Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to forthwith, issue a Certificate of Return to immediate past Governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, as the Senator-elect for Imo West senatorial district in the National Assembly. Justice Abang declared, the returning officer Prof Innocent Ibeawuchi, having declared Okorocha as winner of the senatorial election held on February 23, 2019 for Imo West Senatorial district, having polled a total of 97,792 votes, that “the plaintiff remains the Senator-elect for Imo West senatorial zone”. More so, the court held that in view of section 68(c) of the Electoral Act, the decision of the returning officer of INEC in declaring Okorocha, winner of the Imo West senatorial district “is final”. The court also declared that in view of sections 68(c) and 71(1) of the Electoral Act, refusal of INEC to include Okorocha’s name in the list of senators elect published on its website on March 11, 2019 “is ultra vires, unlawful, null and void”. The court also declared that in view of sections 68(c) and 71(5) of the Electoral Act, refusal of INEC to issue a certificate of return to Okorocha “is ultra vires, unlawful, null and void”. Abang gave the orders in a judgment filed by Okorocha against INEC and seven others, wherein he challenged the decision of the electoral commission not to issue certificate of return to him. In the judgement on Friday that lasted for almost six hours, the court, while ruling on the preliminary objections raised by the 1st defendant (INEC), Jones Onyereri (2nd) and Osita Izunaso (3rd) as well as other defendants, held that INEC was wrong in its decision to withhold Okorocha’s Certificate of Return. The court noted that though the issue was a post-election matter, however, it was the contention of Justice Abang that the case of the plaintiff solely rested on the administrative action of INEC. “None of the four questions and 7 reliefs raised by the plaintiff challenging the action of INEC relates to or questions the validity of any person going to National Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal. “I have my doubt as to whether counsel representing the 1st to 8th defendants critically examined the wordings of section 285(1) of the 1999 Constitution that confers limited and exclusive jurisdiction on the National Assembly Election Petition Tribunal on post-election issues. “If the defendants did, they would not have filed objections to this suit” Justice Abang held. “Though it is a post-election issue but it is not a post-election dispute that the plaintiff cannot take to the National Assembly Election Petition Tribunal,” the court said. “The issue of INEC refusing to issue a Certificate of Return to the plaintiff is not one of the four grounds provided for under section 138(c) of the Electoral Act that would warrant the plaintiff going to the tribunal. “INEC’s refusal to issue a certificate of return or publish plaintiff’s name on its website list as winner of the senatorial election for Orlu zone (Imo West) senatorial district is not one of these four grounds. “Beyond this, the plaintiff was declared winner of the election under the Electoral Act. It is not a winner that goes to election petition tribunals, it is the loser” Abang stated. “It is INEC that caused so much problems in this case. The decision of INEC not to issue a Certificate of Return to Okorocha is an administrative decision. “It is only the 2nd to 8th defendants that would approach the National Assembly Election Petition Tribunal and not the plaintiff with regards to the four grounds provided under section 138 (c) of the Electoral Act.” Requiring the plaintiff to go to the tribunal since the issue is post-election, according to the court,  “Amounts to legal impossibility and you cannot operate democracy in law.” Abang further held that, “This court has exclusive jurisdictions to hear the suit of the plaintiff” adding that, “No section of the Electoral Act allows the plaintiff to go to election petition tribunal. “Under section 138(a) of the Electoral Act, election petition tribunal has no jurisdiction to determine questions as to the validity of INEC’s action. Jurisdiction of tribunal is restricted and not unlimited” the court insisted. Abang lambasted INEC for resorting to self-help, stressing that “Under section 68 of the Electoral Act, INEC has become functus officio and has no lawful authority to withhold issuance of certificate of return to the plaintiff”. The court was of the view that INEC acted ultra vires in view of section 68(c) of the Electoral Act. “INEC’s unilateral decision not to issue certificate of return to the plaintiff is unknown to law. INEC arrogated judicial powers to itself. “Plaintiff’s suit is constitutional under section 251 of the 1999 constitution and the plaintiff’s suit is not related to electoral process.” Consequently, the court dismissed the preliminary objections of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd defendants. Making pronouncement on the substantive matter, the court said, “Having regards to section 68(c), of the Electoral Act, the decision not to issue certificate of return to the plaintiff can be taken by a tribunal not INEC.” Consequently, the court held it was mandatory for INEC to include the plaintiffs name in its website. However, Abang noted that INEC did not offer reason as to why it refused to publish the name of the plaintiff as winner of Imo West Senatorial district. In a bid to resolve the issue, the court asked a question: “Was it lawful for INEC that was expected to be neutral to sit in judgement on an act without calling for evidence from both sides? I think not. “No law confers that power on INEC to arrive at any decision not to issue certificate of return to the plaintiff.” The court opined that “INEC has no power to withhold Certificate of Return of a person that was declared winner by a returning officer. “It is only a tribunal that can take evidence from both parties, and take decision from evidence before it; and under section 40 of the Electoral Act, it can take a decision.” Therefore, “There is no law both statutory and universal that supports the unilateral decision of INEC”. The court posited that INEC denied the plaintiff fair hearing and allowed its personal feeling to affect its official duties. “The electoral body cannot be a judge in its own case because the returning officer is also a staff of INEC.” In addition, the court noted there was a police report that indicated that the election was free and fair, wondering why INEC overlooked the police report. Justice Abang stated that Nigeria is governed by rule of law and not by myth, pointing out that the “Decision of INEC cannot survive a minute”. The court also insisted it has no jurisdiction to look into the issue of whether or not the result of the senatorial election was released under “duress”, stressing it is left for determination at the election petition tribunal that has jurisdiction to make findings. “The claim of the returning officer might be true or false and it is the tribunal that can make such findings. “The 2nd to 8th defendants had no reason to apply to be joined in this matter because the outcome would not affect them. “INEC cannot seek to circumvent the law, and the people of Orlu zone must have representation in the Senate. There must not be a vacuum for the zone in the Senate. Therefore, INEC’s action cannot stand in a democratic setting,” the court held. In addition, Abang said, “The electoral body cannot hide under section 75(2) of Electoral Act to back its action because it does not apply to it upon the plaintiff having been announced the winner of the election. “There is no right without a remedy because INEC did not announce another winner, nullify the election or declare the election inconclusive to warrant the matter to be heard at the tribunal.” Consequently, the court awarded a cost of N200, 000 against INEC in favour of Okorocha just as Justice Abang ordered the 2nd to 8th defendants to pay Okorocha, the sum of N100, 000 each. The court also ordered that the defendants must not take any step until they have paid the costs.