ABUJA – The Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria National Accreditation Service (NiNAS), Mr. Celestine Okanya, has said the €12million grant provided by the European Union has tremendously assisted Nigeria to improve on her quality infrastructure. Speaking yesterday in Abuja during the celebration of the World Accreditation Day 2019, Okanya explained that the grant has enabled Nigeria to achieve five big quality infrastructure. Giving a breakdown on how the grant was spent in Nigeria, Okanya said: “The first thing was to strengthen and build the capacities of the existing institutions such as the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Consumer Protection Council (CPC) as well as increase their quality culture. “Again, the grant was used to establish Nigeria National Accreditation Service (NiNAS). He revealed that another institution in charge of metrology, that is, National Metrology Institute located in Enugu has been established with the said grant, adding that the Institute has reached 80per cent completion, as some of its laboratories have become functional The CEO of NiNAS also said part of the money was spent on certification of institutions and other conformity assessment bodies. He noted that the grant was provided in 2014 and ended in January 18, 2019, adding that Nigerians should embrace accreditation in all facets of life to make remarkable progress. He pointed out that since Nigeria’s independence in 1960, that there was no institution statutorily set up for the purpose of accreditation, adding that this scenario has led to rejection of Nigeria’s products in the international arena. With the setting up of NiNAS, he expressed joy that confidence and trust are being restored on Nigeria’s products, as they undergo accreditation. He further underscored the need to strengthen the Nigeria’s pharmaceutical laboratories across the country to enhance quality standard. Also speaking, Mr. Osita Abuloma, Director General of SON, pledged to work closely with NiNAS to ensure that institutions in Nigeria are accredited. He commended the management and staff of NiNAS for the giant strides recorded since the establishment of the agency about two years ago, urging them not to rest on their laurels. The World Accreditation Day, which is celebrated on 9th of June every year, is set aside globally by the International Accreditation Forum (IAF) and the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) to create awareness on Accreditation.