Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The South East support group of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has endorsed Waziri Bulama, to take over as the National Secretary of the Party. The endorsement was made in a statement jointly signed by the group’s National Coordinator, Retired Air Comdr. Peter Gbujie (Youth Coordinator), Mazi Ifeanyi Nwaudunna and Director of Planning and Strategy, Okenze Nnamdi Oparaji. According to the statement, made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Abuja, the APC is in the process of filling the position of National Secretary following the resignation of the former scribe, Mr Mai Mala-Buni, who recently became Governor of Yobe State. It stated that Bulama was a front line candidate for the National Secretary of APC and later stepped down to pave  way for Buni to emerge unopposed. The group said that Bulama stepped down following an agreement by the leaders of the party from the North East geo-political zone, saying he should now be be considered. “Arc Waziri Bulama led the strategy and planning committee of APC during the establishment of the party which gave the party strong footing that brought the APC to winning the presidential election in the 2015. “He has served as the Deputy Director General (coordination) of the APC Presidential Campaign Council in 2019. He has always demonstrated deep loyalty and sincere commitment to the ideals of APC. “He is a Political guru, who is well acquainted with the principles of building a coherent party; he has the clout, courage, candour and pedigree to take APC to great heights. “The South East APC Support Group emphasises that the National Secretary of any political party and that of a ruling party is expected to be someone with vital ability, experience and political party administration skills,” it said. The group added that Waziri had all the qualities and was best suited to occupy the vacant position. It pledged to assist Bulama in building the party, adding that when appointed, his skills would reflect on the growth of the party.