Osogbo – No fewer than 208 suspects have been arrested by men of National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) over illicit drugs within the last 12 months. The agency also hinted that illicit drugs worth 2,424.77kg were seized from the suspects within the same period.
Osun State Commander of the agency, Samuel Egbeola, in a statement made available to journalists in Osogbo on Wednesday, said the agency arrested the suspects and prosecuted some of them between June 2018 and this year.
Egbeola said: “During this period, 208 suspects made up of 186 males and 22 females were arrested, 2,424.77kg of illicit drugs made up of 2,290.771kg of cannabis sativa and 133.999 kg of psychotropic substances were seized.
“Two vehicles used in committing drug offences, that is, in carrying drugs were seized. In terms of convictions, the command seized 26 and also organized drug enlightenment campaigns in both secondary and tertiary institutions in the state. 10.45 hectares of cannabis farm was destroyed in the state.”
Meanwhile, Osun NDLEA and a group, Dialogue 365, have called on Nigerians to be proactive in sensitising youths against drug abuse.
The Convener, Dialogue 365, Waheed Saka, spoke on Wednesday, at a press conference in commemoration of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Drug at the NUJ Correspondents’ Chapel, Osogbo, Osun state.
Saka, who commended the government for the enactment of legislations against drug trafficking, addiction and abuse, expressed concern over the enforcement of the legislations, which he said, has been one of the major issues in the fight against the scourge.
He said the campaign of the group is aimed at preventing teenagers from abuse of drugs by nurturing them through the most vulnerable time of their lives. “Despite the challenges posed by drug, we have no doubt as an organization, that the impact can be mitigated through organized preventive actions, which is why we are leading the campaign to prevent greater number of younger ones from abusing drug.” The convener said the #JustSayNo campaign will spread information among community members by organizing town hall meetings to raise awareness on the negative impact of drugs and promote healthy lifestyle. He urged Nigerians to key into the campaign, which has a serious link with drugs, Kidnapping, terrorism and violence. He assured that the organization will work with the media and the drug enforcement agency in order to achieve its purpose. For the NDLEA, the theme for this year’s Say against drug abuse is “Health for Justice, Justice for Health.” Egbeola said “the day is supported by individuals, communities and various organizations all over the world.