Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ahmad Tijjani Abdul Kano – After months of the war of attrition, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano state suspends hostilities with the Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammad Sanusi II on Tuesday morning as he joined thousands of Muslim faithful to offer Eid prayers behind the embattled monarch at Kofar Mata praying ground. Ganduje had arrived the praying ground in the company of his son,  Abba Ganduje,  deputy,  Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna,  party stalwarts, former members of the state executive council, and a retinue of security aides. Relationship between the Kano political and traditional gladiators suffered fractures following the dismemberment of Kano Emirate Council into five through an act of parliament last month. The act which was signed into law by Governor Ganduje pulled the rug off the feet of a monolithic Kano which before now was under the grip of emir Sanusi II. The crisis of confidence was such that, Sanusi II was reportedly absent during the swearing-in ceremony of Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for a second term in office. Just yesterday, the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission recommended for the suspension of the emir of Kano Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II for alleged misappropriation of a whooping sum of N3.4 billion in three years. A leaked documents by the Anti-Graft Agency further recommended that appropriate authority should be put in place to oversee the affairs of the Emirate Council in line with established statutes and policies, pending the final outcome of the commission’s investigations. The interim report signed by Alhaji  Muhuyi Magaji, Chairman,  Kano State Anti Graft Commission was in respect of a petition of financial misappropriation leveled against Kano Emirate Council under the present Emir, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II. According to the document, the interim report raised four cardinal issues bordering on indictments, amount involved, obstruction of investigation and recommendations. The report made it bare that the Kano Emirate Council had spent over N1.4 billion in various expenditures believed to be fraudulent and unappropriated. Tuesday brief meeting at the Kofar mata Eid Praying for the two raka’at prayers led by the emir Sanusi II opened a ray hope for possible reconciliation between the feuding personalities. In his sermon shortly after the prayers,  Sanusi II spoke on the resurgence of thugs and thuggery activities in Kano,  and stressed the need for the political authority to rise up to the challenge.