Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Theresa May steps down today after nearly three years of an embattled tenure as British Prime Minister. May, who succeeded David Cameron in July 2016 to lead Britain out of the European Union after its Brexit decision, threw in the towel on May 24 after failing to get British parliamentarians to back her proposals. Announcing her decision to quit, she said: “It is now clear to me it is in the best interest of the country to have a new Prime Minister. I have done everything I can to convince MPs to back (my) deal. Sadly, I have not been able to do so.” The Brexit journey under May’s supervision had had far reaching implications beyond the United Kingdom (UK), drawing in friends and foes across the globe, not excluding immigrants in the country. Some Nigerians in the UK have expressed their opinions on the political epic called Brexit and May’s eventual resignation. Patricia Kenneth-Divine, Principal Consultant/International Trade and Investments Specialist, and Chief Executive Officer, Synergy Systems Consults United Kingdom (Limited), noted that many factors led to May’s failures and her consequent resignation. According to her, British politics has been in critical stages and, significantly, there were many factors responsible for her resignation. The issues of the UK having control over immigration, tensions over Brexit between the UK ministers and the Scottish government, and even issues on housing and national health schemes, had been rising matters around May’s government, she said. Kenneth-Divine noted that although one can say that May showed great political skills during her time at 10 Downing Street, nevertheless, her failure to honestly face the real choices of Brexit and to take Britain out of the European Union was the primary reason for her exit. She said that most people considered May’s challenges as self-inflicted and that it made her lose the support of her own Conservative parliamentarians who did not back any of her deals. She said even with May’s claims to have done everything to take Britain out of the EU with a deal, “this was a major concern for Brits, with 52 percent of British people voting to leave the EU as against 48 percent who voted to remain, hence the red lines for May’s resignation.” According to the international trade and investments expert, “Under May’s leadership, the UK moved to delay Brexit twice in order to avoid a disruptive no-deal. While we recognise that there was so much instability as a result of May’s failed deals, with the resignation of more government officials recorded, members of her Conservative party complained that she misled them often because she didn’t listen to key issues and she broke her own red lines.” Also in her reaction, Tosin Oladimeji-Ladipo, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Clinic Organisation for Youths, Singles and Young Couples, United Kingdom, noted that since politics was a game of numbers, any politician worth his or her game must be able to curry the favour of the majority always, but this happened to be May’s weakest point as the British prime minister. Oladimeji-Ladipo said a leader was expected to be in charge and not lose grip, whereas this turned out to be a major factor that May as prime minister failed to possess, adding that May’s lack of control made her to lose her own Conservative party members. Pointing lack of people-management skill as one of the qualities May lacked, the relationship expert stated that the out-going British PM failed to manage internal party politics well. She said that though there were so many dissenting voices within the Conservative Party, both the party and oppositions’ affairs were not properly managed, adding that many key Brexiteers resigned from the cabinet, which spoke volumes of May’s lack of “people-management skill”. She said a tree could never make a forest and noted that May was not being consultative and kept all cards to herself, which contributed to her failure and consequent resignation. Quoting Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour Party leader and opposition candidate who said they were neither briefed nor carried along on Brexit negotiations, she said: “I feel that if May had consulted stakeholders of various parties at the initial stage of proposing the Brexit deal to deliberate, dialogue, and negotiate, a compromise would have been reached, which would have definitely paid off for the United Kingdom. Citing lack of determination and indecisiveness of May as factors that led to her failure to handle Brexit, she referred to the late Margaret Thatcher who said, “He who chooses to walk in the middle, runs the risk of being smashed on both sides…. because standing in the middle of the road is very dangerous, you get knocked down by the traffic from both sides.” She said May did not only get knocked down on the two sides, her own party and the opposition parties, but also lost her seat as prime minister.