Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Indigenous ship-owners have said that the Federal Government lacks the political will, capacity and commitment to establish a national carrier. Funmi Folorunsho, the Secretary-General of the African Ship-owners Association, who made the disclosure while reacting to a statement, credited to Rotimi Amaechi, former minister of transportation which accused the ship owners of being responsible for the government failure to float national carrier, noted that the issues of establishing a national fleet goes beyond setting up a committee without addressing some inherent challenges facing the indigenous ship-owners. According to her, “Take Ethiopia shipping line for example; why is a landlocked country carrying vessels while we cannot have a vessel? It is because there is a strong political will that every cargo that is Ethiopian must be carried on an Ethiopian vessel. “You have done quite well as Minister of Transportation, but I think the political will for a national fleet development in Nigeria is still not there.” Folorunsho argued that there is need for the Federal Government to address the issues of carriage of the nation’s crude oil export as Free On Board (FOB) and import as Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF), as well as availability of government cargo. It would be recalled that Amaechi had, while speaking at a valedictory meeting organised by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) recently in Lagos, admitted that the plan to float a national fleet failed during his tenure. He blamed the failure on Nigerian ship-owners, whom he said failed to raise the 60 per cent stake allotted to them. Nigeria’s only national carrier, the Nigerian National Shipping Line (NNSL), was established by the Nigerian government in 1959. Despite heavy investment and subsidies, the state-owned company was unable to compete with European lines, even as much of the investment went into enriching the political elite. NNSL ran into deep depths and was eventually liquidated by the government of late General Sani Abacha in 1995 and all its 21 vessels were sold off.