Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Peoples Democratic Party has demanded immediate establishment of state police as an effective response to the worsening state of security in the country. The Governors in a communiqué read by the Chairman of the Forum and Governor of Bayelsa State, Henry Seriake Dickson, expressed deep worry over the spate of killings across the country and called for effective measures to curtail the troubling development. A statement by the Special Adviser Media Relation to the  Governor of Bayelsa  State,  Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, on Friday, stated that Governor Dickson made the call on behalf of the Forum while reading the communiqué of a late night meeting at the Bayelsa Governors Lodge, Maitama Abuja on Thursday. He said that the governors would raise the issue of security among others with the President in a meeting scheduled for Friday. “We express deep concern over the politicisation of the security apparatus in every state by the Federal Government and its agencies and by operatives of the other party in the various states they are not in control and as such support the growing calls for the establishment of State Police as a response to the security situation in the country. “And we believe that this is one of the reasons that we have these widespread insecurity and will take some of these issues up when we interact with  the President.” The PDP Governors also condemned the recent closure of DAAR Communications Limited, owners of AIT and RayPower by the Nigerian Broadcasting Commission. The Governors described the suspension of the License of the AIT and Raypower FM as an act of repression against the media which they insisted was a threat to the growth of democracy. The governors enjoined the Federal Government and its agencies to ensure application of due process to deal with allegations if any, rather than the recourse to authoritarianism. “This evening as we are here, we understand, DAAR Communications has been closed down, and our position is that due process must be followed. If there are any allegations of infractions, then due process of the law must take place. “When you shut down news outlets, when you harass and intimidate journalists, then you are threatening the growth of democracy. We condemn it and call on the Federal Government to do what is right.” The PDP Governors who denied the allegation of diversion of local government funds challenged the Federal Government to name the states involved in the reprehensible conducts and the time the alleged act was committed. The governors also condemned the alleged diversion of local government funds insisting that rather than doing so, they had always ensured subsidising the funding of the councils in the state. “We dealt with the alleged diversion of local government funds by state governments and we condemn it in very strong terms. We as governors of the PDP want to make it clear that no PDP Governor is involved in this allegation of local government funds diversion. In our case, the reverse is the case; it is the state governments that are supporting, subsidising, the funding of the local government. “So we call on the Federal Government and the agencies that are making these allegations to name the state government and possibly tell us the people involved in this alleged diversion.” The governors declared that they were eager to pay the new minimum wage to alleviate the suffering of the Nigerian worker even as they called on the President to forward a bill to the National Assembly to ensure a review of the revenue allocation formula in the country.