Lagos – Players in the Nigerian aviation have advocated the need for creation of a dedicated fund for aviation training development. They also advised the Federal Government to expunge the position of a Minister of State, Aviation in the planned new cabinet, saying that aviation should be a department under the Ministry of Transport. They spoke yesterday in Lagos at the Quarterly Business Breakfast Meeting (BBM) Q2 2019 held by the Aviation Safety Round Table Initiative (ASRTI) with the theme: ‘Safety Challenges in Air Navigation and Air Traffic Service Delivery in Nigeria.’ Capt. Samuel Caulcrick, the former rector, Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria, in his presentation said that Nigeria needed to train more technical personnel for the industry especially the air navigation personnel. He said the industry had all the facilities to train these technical personnel, but lamented that the resources were inadequate for such purpose. He said unlike some aspects of the industry that could be privatised, air navigation services could not be privatised, which made it unattractive to private investors. He decried that for the sector to be developed, there should be enormous investment in air navigation services, noting that despite the 180 million population of the country, barely two million people actually travel by air annually. He also explained that Nigeria needed to build on its existing infrastructure if the country was to attract air travellers to it, stressing that the existing facilities were grossly inadequate to catre for current traffic and the future. He said: “Nigeria is ready to train air navigation personnel for the industry, but we lack the resources to train them. Unfortunately, we can’t privatise air navigation services because it is part of security. No country privatises this aspect of aviation because it is not profit orientated. “In the United States, the air navigation personnel are trained by the military for the state. For us to train this set of people, I want to propose a dedicated aviation fund for this purpose. We can’t run away from this. We have 180 million people in this country, but embarrassingly, only two million people are flying. Though, we may claim to have 15 million travellers annually, but we know that some people fly every day, while each on the domestic scene, it is counted as double.” In his remarks, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of ASRTI, canvassed for the removal of a minister for the sector. He insisted that rather than have a full-fledged minister, the sector should be under the Ministry of Transport as a department, stressing that the ministry was a clog in the wheel of progress in the sector. He regretted that the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, which was built to handle just 200,000 passengers annually, was already handling seven million yearly without provision for development by the government. He said: “There is congestion in the air already and what are the plans we put in place to meet the projection of 6.5 per cent increase by 2035? We have suffered from lack of planning over the years.” “Our air navigation equipment are declining each day. My take is that the ministry is a clog in the wheel of aviation growth. Most of our Chief Executive Officers are in Abuja at the moment, rather than being in their various offices to perform their duties.” Besides, Mr. Matthew Pwajok, the director, operations, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), enumerated the challenges faced by the agency in recent time. He decried that the constructing firm for the second terminal at Abuja airport did not put into consideration the control tower, saying that the terminal affected the view of air traffic controllers, while the Lagos Airport was also faced with the similar challenges.