Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Bright Omokaro, ex-international, believes that Super Falcons can beat France in their last FIFA Women’s World Cup group match on Monday, provided they were determined, though the game, according to him, would not be a walk in the park. Falcons, who lost their opening game 3-0 to Norway bounced back to beat South Korea 2-0 on Wednesday. A draw will see the Nigerians reach the knockout as one of the best four third placed teams. Omokaro, who spoke on Wednesday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said that Korea only made France look fantastic with their 4-0 loss. France qualified for the knockout following their 2-1 win over Norway on Wednesday. “I believe this victory will encourage them to push harder and focus on what’s important, they need to listen to their coach, this is going to be one of the most crucial encounters and they need to put in their best. “France can be beaten, but they need to have the mentality of a champion, that’s what they need to do, France is not a team to underrate but playing confidently too will go a long way,’’ he said. Sharing same view, Dosu Joseph, former Super Eagles goalkeeper also said that playing to instruction would increase Falcons’ chances of moving to round of 16. “As a player, playing according to instruction is important and cannot be overemphasised. “France is beatable, with focus and determination, I see that happening, and moreover these girls have being playing together for a while so they understand each other. “I believe playing as a team and playing cohesively will go a long way they should leave no stone unturned,’’ he said. Meanwhile, Falcons arrived in Rennes on Thursday morning for their last group match with France. The team had light training session an hour after arrival, with the 11 players who started against Korea Republic using the gymnasium while the others went running in the hotel premises. The Super Falcons have a few days to rest and train hard for Monday’s clash with France at the 28,000 – capacity Roazhon Park in Rennes.