Zainab Ahmed, Honourable Minister of Finance has affirmed that disruptive technologies could help Africa increase its productivity, create jobs and reduce poverty.
Ahmed with Godwin Emefiele, Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), were among other Africans involved in the discussions at the IMF/ World Bank Spring that focused on global economic context, mainstreaming disruptive technology in the World Bank Group (WBG).
She said that it is known that disruptive technology is transforming societies and markets across the world including Africa.
“In the area of disruptive technology, we know that disruptive technology is transforming societies and markets across the world, including Africa.
“WBG was hoping that the disruptive technologies could help Africa increase its productivity, create jobs and reduce poverty,” she stated.
According to Ahmed, “South Africa spoke on behalf of our constituency comprising; Angola, Nigeria and South Africa. For commodity economies like ours, even though commodity prices including crude oil prices are expected to stabilize around $67/ bbl in 2019, uncertainty remains high around the forecast.
“Accordingly, the policy prescriptions for countries like ours are to increase domestic revenues, increase productivity, especially through clearing of supply constraints, diversify the economy and consciously formalize the informal sector and increase the drive for tax revenues.”
On Human capital development, she drew attention to the Bali meetings, when the human capital project was released, recalling, “Many of us were concerned that Nigeria was placed 157 out of 189, and I did promise that we would go back home and address this issue.”
Using the spring meetings to showcase what the Nigerian government was doing, she said, “We have set up an inter – ministerial working group with representatives of the state governors and are currently piloting some initiatives in health, education and of course you are all aware of the social safety nets programs of the Federal Government where we have 15 million people already on the register.”
Having been pleased with her efforts, she said that the WBG promised to offer some assistance.