ADO- EKITI – Ekiti state from time immemorial has a history of progressive politics .From regional politics to second republic and now, names of notable figures from Ekiti continue to resonate, particularly whenever Democracy is being challenged or threatened. It is instructive to note that Ekiti people were the fulcrum of some of the novel policies of the late sage Chief Obafemi Awolowo which later earned the Action Group its Popularity in the defunct Western Region in particular and Nigeria at as a whole. It is however not by accident that some heroes in the struggle for the actualization of June, 12 1993 Presidential mandate converged on Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital to once again celebrate it adoption as Democracy Day. The election adjudged to be the freest and fairest in Nigeria’s political history was widely believed to have been won by the late business mogul and Presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party(PDP),Chief Moshood Kashimawo Abiola(MKO). Unfortunately, the principal actors in the infamous annulment are now watching the political events behind the scene . Ever since the tragic annulment, Ekiti has been a place where the echoes of the annulment is being reverberated. Hence ,June 12 and Awolowo’s posthumous birthday became two regular events being commemorated in the state . The event was significant in the sense that one of the leading lights in the struggle, Dr Kayode Fayemi ,who was famous for coordinating and enlisting the diaspora and International Community’s support for the pro-democracy campaigns ,is now at the helm of affairs in Ekiti . Another strong member of the defunct National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) Barrister Funmiyi Afuye is also the speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly . Notable among such engagements was the International Press Conference addressed by the leading activities at the Commonwealth Conference in Edinburgh Scotland where the likes of Nobel Laureate Professor Wole Soyinka ,late poet Ken Saro Wiwa ,Ledium Mitee and Olisa Agbakoba were in attendance . Fayemi also coordinated other campaigns in the streets of London. He got an appellation of “The Man Behind Kudirat Radio”. Recall that governor Fayemi had led a similar struggle to deepen democracy when he fought the longest battle to reclaim his stolen mandate in the 2007 Governorship Election in Ekiti which lasted three and half years .He was declared the duly elected governor by the Tribunal in 2010. The governor was also the first politician to introduce Forensic Evidence into Election Petition Matters in Nigeria. The public discourse entitled: ‘June 12: Lighting the Candle of Democracy’ took place at the Great Eagle Hall,Ado-Ekiti . The Discussants who relived their experience also traced the journey to the adoption of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day included Professor Bolaji Aluko, General Secretary, Afenifere Renewal Group, Chief Ayo Afolabi. Others were the Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon Funminiyi Afuye, former Editor of Diet Magazine, Mr. Niran Malaolu. In his opening remarks , governor Fayemi lauded President Muhammadu Buhari’s courage to openly identify with the struggle . The governor described those people who opposed the actualization of June 12 ,1993 struggle as poor students of history . According to him .the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential poll and the honour bestowed on the presumed winner of the election, Chief Abiola showed the country needed a strong and virile political institutions. The governor described many of those who fought over the annulment of June 12 as committed patriots, who did the sacrifice in the interest of democracy and not for the late Abiola. “Some of those saying the June 12 was not worth dying for were poor students of history and not abreast of the war waged by people to restore democracy to the country. “Over 70 percent of our close to 200m population did not have first-hand information about June 12, so those of us who knew what transpired must acknowledge the struggle. “One thing is clear , there won’t be May 29 without June 12 and that was why President Buhari decided to honour the late Abiola . “The honour was not just about the man, but about Nigerians who voted for Chief MKO Abiola. “Some of us in the radical fold believed Chief Abiola was a military collaborator, who used his money to fund coups. He was a capitalist but a populist on the other hand, because of his strong philanthropic gesture. Former Chief of Army Staff and icon in the struggle, General Alani Akinrinade , advised President Muhammadu Buhari to make June 12 as the inauguration for President, Governors and other political office holders in the country. Akinrinade also flayed former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s recent comment on insecurity in the land, describing it as misdirected venom, which had been settled by the honour bestowed on the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential poll, Chief Moshood Abiola. Akinrinade applauded Buhari for branding June 12 a democracy day, but insisted that it should also be a day of inauguration to add glamour to it. Akinrinade added that “President Buhari was one of the firs retired generals to stand up for June 12, but they became disappointed at a time because of the inordinate ambitions of our people here in Yoruba, so they became scared not until they were told that not all the Yorubas are treacherous . “ So, what he did was not for MKO Abiola, but for the growth of our democracy. Don’t let us have the intention that President Buhari will Fulanise us. “I have always believed that criminal is a criminal, whether you are a Yoruba, Igbo or Hausa, when you commit offence, you must be treated as a criminal. It is not good to link every Fulani man to Buhari”. Akinrinade appealed to Buhari to cooperate with the governors on the issue of insecurity, saying: “we can’t have peace when our people are being kidnapped and money are being taken from them. “The man represented Nigeria in all its ramifications and he understood all the contradictions, so there are lessons to be learnt, especially with the way President Buhari decided to honour this man,who died for democracy. “That is why we have to strengthen this democracy, we are not yet where we are supposed to be”.