ABUJA – After the June 11 election of presiding officers of the House of Representatives, which produced Femi Gbajabiamila and Ahmed Idris Wase as Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively, the battle ground for ranking members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House has now shifted to the appointment of principal officers. Positions The positions at stake are the Majority House Leader, Chief Whip, Deputy Majority Leader and Deputy Chief Whip. While similar positions exist for of the opposition, what has generated more heat and suspense within the political parties and the House is who the ruling party will chose as principal officers for the 9th House. Findings by Sunday INDEPENDENT reveal that the APC might have distributed the positions among the four remaining zones yet to be represented in the body of principal officers. According to a sharing formula said to have been adopted by the party, the North West geopolitical zone would produce the Majority House Leader, while the North East would get the Chief Whip. In the same token, the South-South was considered for the position of Deputy Majority Leader, while South East, according to insider sources, would get the Deputy Chief Whip. North West Contenders/Pretenders For the position of Majority Leader, six members from the North West states of Kaduna, Kano and Katsina were said to be jostling for the position. As at the last count, lawmakers such as former Deputy Minority Whip in the 7th Assembly, Hon. Ahmed Datti from Kaduna, immediate-past Chief Whip, Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa from Kano, Hon. Aminu Sulaiman, also from Kano, Babangida Ibrahim from Katsina and Sadda Soli, also from Katsina, had indicated interest. But, information emanating from the APC caucus indicated that both Hon. Ibrahim and Soli from Katsina could be out of contention by virtue of their origin, being from the same state as President Muhammadu Buhari. “Since the president is from Katsina, both Ibrahim and Soli can’t be considered. The battle is, therefore, narrowed down to Kaduna and Kano. Even in Kano, the idea favours Hon. Ado Doguwa who has the blessing of his governor, Umar Abdullahi Ganduje. “But then, it’s going to be an uphill task for him against Hon. Datti whom, apart from being very well known to the president, also has the backing of Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State. Everyone knows how close to the president El-Rufai is and what he can do. “There’s hardly anything El-Rufai would push in the administration that he won’t succeed. So, Datti is more favoured to get it,” an insider told Sunday INDEPENDENT. Chances, Odds Before Datti, Doguwa Asked to assess the chances of Doguwa said to be enjoying the support of both governors Ganduje and Badaru of Jigawa State, the source dismissed it as “wishful thinking” giving the scenario he enumerated above. According to the source, Doguwa’s chances had been hampered by a number of factors, ranging from the fact that his state, Kano, through him represented the zone in the immediate-past leadership of the House. He said Doguwa also had been having trust issues among APC lawmakers given the circumstances surrounding his emergence as Chief Whip in the 8th Assembly. It was revealed that Doguwa, a staunch supporter of Gbajabiamila prior to the speakership election in 2015, quickly made a u-turn the moment his candidate lost, and joined Dogara’s camp to drag the Majority leadership position with Gbajabiamila, who was the party’s choice. “He threw caution to the wind in his desperation to become House Leader, and contributed to Dogara’s recalcitrant attitude towards the party’s demand until the President waded in and demanded for compliance. The new speaker is also not unmindful of that history between himself and Hon. Doguwa. “Don’t forget that Doguwa also featured prominently in the budget padding allegations by Abdulmumin Jibrin in 2016, and you all saw how he aligned with Dogara and others against his own brother. So, the Presidency is still very much aware of that. As far as the party is concerned, loyalty is key. The current speaker is a product of loyalty, so is the Senate President,” the impeccable source said. The New Twist And Gbajabiamila Factor However, a new twist to the leadership tussle could be that the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, might have expressed his preference for a different person and leader of the North East National Assembly Caucus, Mohammed Tahir Monguno. Monguno, a former Attorney General in Borno State and fifth-timer in the House, was said to have earned the respect and consideration of the new Speaker and some APC leaders due to his steadfastness, loyalty and commitment to the party and its administration. Having served as member in the aborted 4th Republic in 1992, Monguno launched his return to the Green Chamber in 2007 following his disengagement from the state government, where he was Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General under then Governor Ali Modu Sheriff, making him one of the highest ranking members of the House. He also ran alongside Gbajabiamila in 2015 for the deputy speaker position, but lost to Lasun Yussuff after the emergence of Dogara against Gbajabiamila. A contender for the same position of House Leader told Sunday INDEPENDENT in confidence that Monguno, unlike many others who benefitted from the House leadership under Dogara, stayed true to his belief in Gbajabiamila and paid a price for it. According to the source, the Speaker would be more at home with Monguno as House Leader because of his maturity, punctuality to the chamber and patience. He said Gbajabiamila was also aware that Monguno’s committee was balkanised by Dogara as punishment because of his support for him in 2015. He said the Speaker believed that the only reason Monguno was considered for committee chairmanship at all was his leadership of North East Caucus, with Dogara himself as member, adding that “if not, Dogara would have denied him committee just like many other supporters of his who were denied same.” Gbajabiamila was said to have expressed his desire to see that the Borno-born lawmaker would be adequately rewarded for his steadfastness and loyalty with the position of House Leader. With this new twist tilting the odds in favour of North East, the North West might produce the Chief Whip with Ahmed Datti as the likely choice, given the factors listed above against Doguwa. Other Contenders Other contenders for the remaining slots include former union leader, Hon. Peter Akpatason from Edo State and Nkeiruka Onyejeocha from Abia State. While Akpatason was said to have been favoured for Deputy Majority Leader, Onyejeocha might become the Deputy Chief Whip of the 9th House. While Akpatason might have some level of opposition from his zone, given the existence of another ranking APC member from Edo, Hon. Johnson Oghuma, Onyejeocha was said to enjoy the status of the only ranking APC member from the South East, and the only female lawmaker APC could boasts of from the zone. It, therefore, would make her choice very easy for the party to decide, coupled with the fact that she also ran for the office of Speaker, but later stepped down for Gbajabiamila. As things stand, the caucus might announce their leaders as soon as the House would reconvene on Tuesday from its two weeks recess.