OSOGBO – Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has appealed to parents with autism children and the public to embrace and show care for children with autism as well as persons with disabilities. Oyetola made the appeal at the maiden edition of Awareness on Autism in the state organised by the Ministry of Social Protection, Sports and Special Needs, held at the Conference Room of the Ministry of Women and Children Affairs. The governor represented by the Supervisor for Social Protection, Sports and Special Needs, Comrade Biyi Odunlade, called on all stakeholders to raise their voice for autism and not to segregate, stigmatise or isolate autism victims, as some families do, adding that with adequate care physically and medically, autism children can live full and rich lives, free of coercion, eliminate every barrier and closed door. Reiterating the government’s commitment to full inclusion and participation of people with autism and persons with disabilities to uphold core promise of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which is. “To leave No One Behind,” Governor Oyetola called for collaboration with the government in caring for the less privileged in the society as social service delivery. Mr. Sarafadeen Salawu, Coordinating Director, Ministry of Social Protection, Sports and Special Needs, earlier in his welcome address stated that autism is not a disease but a mental condition, whereby a person finds it difficult to communicate or relate with others, adding that God created everyone uniquely and he appreciated Osun government under the administration of Governor Gboyega Oyetola for approving the programme on autism organised for school children, care-givers, teachers, non-governmental organizations, and members of the public. Similarly, Pharmacist Mrs Omolara Ajayi, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women, Children and Social Affairs,  represented by the Director Social Welfare, Mrs. Grace Adegoke, stated that autism children are special children who have potential to take patience, love and care for it to become a reality. The Guest lecturers, Dr. Ola Ibigbami and Dr. (Mrs) Olayinka Oderinde, averred in their lectures that autism is not a disease, but hereditary and manifest around 18 months to three years of age in children, and main causes not yet known, but research shows it is caused by premature birth, family history, fragile X-Syndrome, diabetic parents among others.