Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals, has embarked on an integrated tripartite approach to boost quality of education in the public schools around host communities in Ibeju Lekki, Lagos. This approach includes a scholarship programme for students, a train-the-trainers capacity building initiative for teachers and school infrastructure projects to improve the quality of education in the communities. Dangote Oil Refinery and Petrochemicals’ in collaboration with NurtureHouse Limited, a company founded to strengthen quality education through enhanced teaching and learning and capacity development of teachers, organised a capacity building programme for secondary school teachers and principals in the area recently. Dangote Refinery Project To Boost Economic Activities In Downstream – LCCI The training sessions were delivered using practical, hands-on approach to learning. The sessions provided participants with opportunities to collaborate as well as practice knowledge and skills acquired. At the end of each session, the participants were guided on reflective practices and action planning to encourage implementation of skills acquired when they return to their schools. Speaking on the import of the programme, Mrs. Adenike Olaoye, Group Social Specialist, Group Health, Safety, Social and Environment (HSSE), Dangote Industries Limited, said the capacity building programme underlines the huge impact that the company has in ensuring quality education in the host communities. According to her, the programme sponsored by Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals has kick-started a positive ripple effect that would be felt in the host communities for years to come. Also speaking, the Chief Executive Officer, NurtureHouse Limited, Mrs. Ayopeju Njideaka, said the programme was structured to help teachers gather new 21st Century skills and also for administrators to understand what their roles were. According to her, “This programme will enable the 21st Century teacher deliver quality education. We had two days for teachers and one day for educational administrators. For the administrators, we trained them on instructional leadership. Leadership of education is no longer about sitting in the office and taking attendance. It is actually about ensuring that quality teaching and learning is practiced in the classrooms. How EU Spent €20m On Nigeria’s Tax, Budget, Other Reforms Njideaka explained that the objective of the professional development session for teachers was to improve the quality of education provided to students in the secondary schools. According to her, the modules have been carefully selected to ensure immediate positive impact on teaching and learning activities in the schools. Speaking at the end of the programme, President of All Nigeria Conference of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), Mr. Fakorede Banji, who was one of the participants, commended Alhaji Dangote for the training programme. Banji, who is also the Principal, Iwerekun Community Senior High School, Lakowe, Ibeju Lekki, urged Dangote Oil Refinery and Petrochemicals to ensure continuous training programmes for the teachers & Principals. According to him, the training programme would assist the principals and teachers to be proactive in carrying out their responsibilities in order to improve the quality of education in Nigeria. Speaking on the importance of the capacity building programme, Banji said it serves as a bridge between prospective and experienced educators to meet the new challenges of guiding students towards higher standards of learning and self-development. NIESV Pushes For Valuation Reforms