Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ADO-EKITI – Former governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Bayo Orire, has asked the party to hold erstwhile governor of Zamfara State, AbdulAzeez Yari, for the political tragedies, which befell it lately and not its national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Expressing his views on recent Supreme Court judgments on Zamfara elections and other states, Orire blamed APC leaders in some states for their inability to manage the internal crisis properly. According to him, if Yari had allowed the primary elections to hold, the issue of APC losing would not have arisen. “It is imposition of candidates and poor handling of crisis arising from the primary elections that affected us in Oyo and Rivers. Though I do not support those calling for the resignation of Oshiomhole, we didn’t entrench discipline in our party, that is the main cause of our poor performance in some states during the 2019 elections.” Orire, who advised the APC national chairman not to be distracted about the development, urged him to be more democratic, proactive and always carry other party leaders in the country along in all activities involving the progress and development of the ruling party. The APC chieftain also condemned the recent statement credited to the former President Olusegun Obasanjo on the islamizing and Fulanization of Nigeria, saying it was unfortunate. Orire urged him to always be objective in any issue relating to the growth of the country. On the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, Orire described it as a welcome development in the country, adding that the reelection of the president could not have been possible if “he had not demonstrated his ability as an astute leader, good manager and administrator of human and material resources.” The APC chieftain, while advising the President to be forward-looking and remain committed in the fulfillment of his election promises to Nigerians, however, called on the opposition political parties to join hands with Buhari in the task of moving the country forward. He also stressed the need for the President to consolidate on the achievements recorded by his administration in the first four years, while harping on the need for the creation of more job opportunities for unemployed youths in the country. He said the move would help in complementing the results achieved in the other sectors such as education, security, health, urban renewal, agricultural, culture and tourism, among others. While acknowledging the various initiatives already taken by the Buhari-led administration at tackling unemployment in the country, which include N-power, employment of about 20,000 police officers and other security agencies, he however, urged the Federal Government to do more by creating new windows of opportunities particularly in the rural areas where he said unemployed persons could be gainfully employed. While wishing the Buhari well in his second term, he, however promised the continued support and cooperation of the APC in Ekiti State towards the success of the administration. He equally appealed to Nigerians not relent in their prayers for the progress of the administration as it steers the ship of the country in the next four.