Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Hon. Shakirudeen Olofin is the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) chairman in Lagos State and Chairman, Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in the state. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on experiences of Nigerians under 20 years of uninterrupted democracy. Excerpt: May 29, 2019 marked 20 years of uninterrupted democracy in Nigeria. What is your take on the development? Let me first use this opportunity to congratulate the new leaders in the various states and the President, Muhammadu Buhari. I felicitate with the new legislature, both in the states and the federal level. They should understand that they were elected on trust. We will always ask them how effective they use the mandate given to them. On the 20 years of uninterrupted democracy, I have mixed feelings of good and bad. I have taken the meaning of democracy to be government of the people by the people and for the people. But, in Nigeria, democracy can be defined as the government of the people by the few. The elected officials are not accountable to the electorate. The people are elected through the power of money. We experience a high level of vote buying and force. The yearnings and aspirations of the people do not come to reality. Every now and then, the masses are on the receiving end. Their choices are not always chosen. The masses are forced to support the choice of political gladiators. How can we see the type of roads being constructed in this modern time and such government is seen as an achiever? Free education which is supposed to be the right of every child is still being celebrated as achievement. Government is being applauded for feeding children. It shows the level we are when we talk of democracy. In your view, do you think political parties and political leaders have fully imbibed the tenets of democracy? So far, so good. I have been a player in Nigerian political system for more than a decade. The level of poverty in the nation has really affected the thinking of the average Nigerian to the extent that democratic tenets are being left behind. The political parties we have are business arm and units of few people. They dictate the activities that go on in such parties. They are the ones who decide who is governor, who goes to the Senate, House of Representatives, Houses of Assembly and the Local Government Chairmen, and even the President. The masses are on their beck and call. The leaders have not imbibed any democratic tenets. They refuse to untie themselves from the old politicians. The young and emerging politicians must be blessed by the old brigade. This is very wrong. At a point, we were clamouring for independent candidacy. If it had seen the day light, Nigeria would have become better for it democratically. In what areas do you still see vestiges of the military in the nation’s body politics? If we look at the all aspects of the nation, you will see vestiges of the military. The only change is that they dropped khakhi and put on Babariga. They are still chairman of companies, community heads, traditional rulers, governors, senators, House of Representatives’ members. They are the political godfathers and decide who contests election and who does not. They are still holding the nation by the jugular. For instance, Muhammadu Buhari, Olusegun Obasanjo, David Mark, Jeremiah Useni, etc, are all ex-military officers and now politicians. The ex-military officers are the ministers. In fact, they are everywhere. You will see that the people cannot have much say. We still have impunity, disrespect for rule of law, giving instructions as if they are still in the barracks or are still ruling by decrees. Thus they do not practice real democracy. How do you see President Buhari’s recent statement that True Federalism is the best option for Nigeria? Do you think he will have the political will to implicate it bearing in mind that he and his party had been prevaricating on Restructuring and Resource Control? Let us give President Buhari the benefit of the doubt and be watchful to see what he will come up with. People may have different opinion in the morning and another opinion in the evening. You will get a well thought out information that may warrant you to have a change of opinion. It could be that President Buhari has seen how popular the argument about True Federalism, Resource Control and Restructuring is among Nigerians and he is trying to change his mind. So, let us watch and see how far he will go on it. With the recent recommendation of a panel for adoption of state policing, how best do you think the system should be implemented? I salute the initiators of the idea of state policing and kudos to the Federal Government for buying into it. The rate of lawlessness we experience on daily basis shows that state policing is long overdue. There was the initiative of PCRC (Police Community Relations Committee). If that bady is managed very ell and given the needed training and information, the coming of state policing will be easy. In all states, we have Police Command. In all communities, we have presence of police divisions. That shows that we have a template already. We only need to build on this already existing template. The only snag with state policing is that state governors may turn it to another arm of their kitchen cabinet. There is the need to look at the constitution, the Police Act, etc, for necessary amendments. What is your take on the recent decision of the Supreme Court against APC in Zamfara State, which nullified the participation of the party in the 2019 general elections in the state, thereby transferring the party’s victories to the PDP? I give kudos to the Federal Government. I applaud the judiciary. I give kudos to the Federal Government for allowing the rule of law to take its cause. I am applauding the judiciary for giving hope to an average Nigeria. The ruling on Zamfara was a big lesson to all political parties in the nation. There is no bigger lesson than that. We should take the lesson wholeheartedly. But, legal luminary, Prof Itse Sagay thinks otherwise and wants the APC to return to the Supreme Court and seek a review of the ruling… (Cuts in) Sagay’s suggestion is an afterthought. Prof Itse Sagay is an icon of law in the nation. He and his compatriots in APC should have educated themselves on allowing for internal democracy. The result of their failure is what APC is experiencing in Zamfara. So, all political parties should learn a lesson in allowing internal democracy, especially in primaries or, the issue of Zamfara may come to play again. Do you think Babajide Sanwo-Olu would have the political will to implement execute all the abandoned projects of his predecessors in the state, including those left behind by Babatunde Fashola? Let me congratulate the newly sworn in governor of Lagos State, Babjide Olusola Sanwo-Olu. He should realise that his party has been in the helm of affairs in Lagos for the past 20 years, transforming from Alliance for Democracy (AD) to Action Congress (AC), to Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and now to All Progressives Congress (APC). We are yearning for dividends of democracy. He should consolidate on all abandoned projects by his predecessors. Such projects litter everywhere, even from the time of Babatude Fashola. Part of his campaign slogans was that when Lagos calls, Sanwo-Olu listens. Now, we are calling him; he should hearken to our calls. His cabinet should be all-inclusive. He should shun partisan politics. We are clamouring for a change. We assisted them in coming into power. So, they should listen to us. The level of refuse being deposited in all corners in the state is now alarming. He should quickly come to our aid to prevent outbreak of diseases. We pray that God will guide him and his deputy and the entire executive he will bring on board. Lastly, I wish to congratulate Lagos State and that state chapter of APC on the election of Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the House of Representatives. His election is well deserved as a long time member of the House.