Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Friday Ekpo, Nigeria’s former mercurial midfielder, in this interview with CHIBUIKE CHUKWU, barred his mind on the chances of Nigeria at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, concluding that the former African champions would reach the final. He also spoke on the squad list recently released by Coach Gernot Rohr, the exclusion of Kelechi Iheanacho, the standard of the Nigerian league and his time in the domestic league, among other issues. Excerpts; What is your take on the Super Eagles list released by Coach Gernot Rohr for the Africa Cup of Nations? As far as I am concerned, that is the best Nigeria can afford at this time. The coach knows almost all of them and he has seen them perform in their clubs so he is satisfied with his choice of players. I’ve said several times that we should take the best the country have for any major tournament like the Africa Cup of Nations. We should always consider players playing regular football in their clubs and as things stand now in the national team, if you don’t play weekly, it will be tough for you to make it into the Super Eagles. There is no way in match-days, you will have three minutes, five minutes, seven minutes game time and you expect to make a national team. Playing three to seven minutes in matches in a season will mean that you are averagely playing only two matches in a whole season. That is certainly not good for a player and such player will not compete with others in the national team. So I think Rohr went after the best players we can boast of. Are you in other words saying that Rohr was absolutely right to drop Kelechi Iheanacho? Well, because of his playing time in his club, one can see reasons for the action of the coach. Iheanacho is passing through a difficult time at his club because it is not an easy thing to see a player sitting out matches in his club. First, it will affect his form and secondly, it will affect his confidence. Let me use this opportunity to even beg him to look out for a club that will guarantee him an opportunity to be playing regularly. He is a young player who can still command Super Eagles shirt as long as he wishes but first he must help himself by looking beyond his present club; it does not matter the division of the club but what is paramount now is for him to save his career. Iheanacho can still play in the national team for the next seven years if he gets a club that can afford him the chance of regular football. If he does not change club or start playing regularly, he can be finally dropped because no coach will play a player who is struggling for playtime in his club. So Iheanacho still has a part to play in order to bounce back to reckoning in the national team. How do you look at the inclusion of Victor Osimhen in the squad given that he is still a young player? Osimhen is a fantastic player who is doing well in his club. Besides, going to the Cup of Nations will help him increase his marketability. He is a good player. I pray that he will not disappoint; rather he will even outperform and be more relevant to the country so that any time they call him, be it U23 or any other national team, he will give his best. If you look at his form, you will know that he is an improved player that has kept improving every now and then. So I am not surprised that he was invited because base on form, he deserves his place. I have read that a lot of top clubs are looking for him. That has shown how far he has improved his game. Sometimes ago, Rohr said that no player in the domestic league could displace what he has in the national team. Base on your assessment of the league and the just concluded Super 6, do you agree with the coach? If he says that, how did he see the home base goalkeeper he is taking to Egypt? If he says that, it means that he has not been watching the league. As the national team coach, he should always come down to watch league matches. Based on what I am watching in this Super 6, I can give you a very good 22 players that can be in the national team. I am talking of only this five days competition not the entire league season. But then he is the coach of the national team and has the right to get players anywhere he deems worthy. Our own is to support him and give him all the necessary assistance. Like I will always tell people, we should pray for any Nigerian coach to succeed and Rohr is also included. When he succeeds, it is we Nigerians that succeed. Players can come from any part of the world but what is most important is for the team to succeed because we are talking of Nigerian national team. As a former national team player making waves in the midfield, how can you assess the midfielders Rohr is taking to the Cup of Nations? Looking at the midfielders he has called up, I don’t think we have others better than them. If there are others, Gernot Rohr has not seen them. If you have better midfielders, please let him know so that he can invite them. The coach was painstaking in selecting the players for the tournament and I think we should commend him. No coach sets out to fail by going after players that are not good. So I think Rohr has taking the best like the captain, Mikel, Etebo, Ndidi and the rest of them. In less than two weeks now, Nigeria will come up against Guinea, Burundi and Madagascar in their Cup of Nations group. What is your take on the chances of the Super Eagles? Even though people might have giving the group to Nigeria, I will say that the group is an underdog group where predicting what will happen will not be an easy one. Let me tell you that any of these countries can win the group. But I have a word of advice for Nigeria: we should not take any match in that group for granted. After qualifying, those countries might have gone back to the drawing board to perfect their plans and to come out with a better team. Just like we are preparing, they are also preparing and we should realize that all of them pass through the rigours of qualifying from difficult processes. So it is an open group for us. We may be slightly rated above them but that is on paper and will have no bearing when actions start in Egypt. You know Nigerians have had this belief of always being the best and that we could outsmart any team at any time but that will be a huge error. We should respect all the teams in the group just like I will assume that they will respect us as well. Rohr should adequately prepare the players to expect stiff opposition from the other countries in the group. But some people believe that Nigeria are one of the favourites to win the AFCON… (Cuts in) Every participating country is a favourite. If you doubt me, let the action finally starts and you will see some results that will justify this. But let me tell you this, being a favourite has to do with a lot of things. The way you are progressing will determine how favourite you are. From stage one to two, you are a favourite; stage three to four, you are another favourite until the ones that will make it to the final and those ones will now be classified as hot favourites to win it. All I am saying is that at this preliminary stage, I will hardly agree that one particular country is a favourite because they have not even entered the field and we have not seen them play. At what level do you think Nigeria will get to and you will be satisfied? I will prefer they get to the final and then I will be satisfied that they have done well. But that is not to say that they must get there if they don’t deserve to be there by playing poorly. Remember that we are talking of 24 countries with only one of them going home with the trophy. But I believe strongly that we will get to the final. Coming to the Nigeria Professional Football League, were you satisfied with the standard of the league this season before getting to the Super 6? I have been very satisfied with the standard of the league even before now. It should not have been a Super 6; it should have been a straight win for any club that would have emerged champions but due to some circumstances beyond our control and also one or two things we failed to do right, we could not manage the situation in order to get an outright champion instead of coming to this Super 6. But I still commend the LMC for making sure that things are going very smoothly as expected despite the inconveniences of not ending the league in the normal way. It should serve as a tonic for us to adequately plan and ensure that all those stumbling blocks that could make us coming back to Super 6 are removed. But some journalists have said that the Super 6 has brought the best out of the players, concluding that it actually brings the real champion on neutral ground, that the LMC should sustain it. What is your take on this? I cannot share such thought because it is not the normal thing. Besides, it will affect us at the continental level. It will affect us at the level of preparation because while other teams are ready for the continental championship, we will still be undecided on who will represent us talk-less of even starting adequate preparation. So there is nothing to quantify sustaining the Super 6 because it was a product of abnormal situation that should not have its way in modern football. Imagine when others are on break, you are playing; when they are playing and preparing for future challenges, you are on break. The journalists should know better than clamoring for sustenance of Super 6. What do you think the LMC should do to make NPFL more marketable before investors? LMC are trying really but it can always get better. I will call on them to look at the aspect of violence at match venues. To their credit, we did not see much of that this season but they should ensure that club managers take their supporters to tutorials on the need to take the results of matches with calmness. If that is done, more p e o p l e will be comi n g t o the stadium to watch games. But like I said earlier, LMC has done well and we must acknowledge them. I am telling you if they do this, the craze for foreign leagues will reduce and NPFL will be the gainer. What are the major difference between now and the time you played in the league? First in my time, there was no abridged league format. It used to be 12 teams and 28 league matches and those 28 league matches will start on time and end on time. Also, the emphasis was not really on monetary gains but we played more for the passion we had for the game more than placing emphasis on money. I will say that now we have 20 teams in the league, we should be able to have a steady calendar that will make sure that the league will start when planned and also end when scheduled to end. In that way, we will enhance its standard. It is not difficult, only that it takes will and commitment to do it. Let us make sure that nothing stops the league abruptly, leading to unnecessary postponement of matches. Can you talk on the welfare of players in the league? The welfare or monetary aspect of the game to players depends on clubs. The LMC should make sure every club submit the contractual papers of their players to them for upkeep in case of emergencies, irregularities and situations that will demand for it. It is very necessary because that is what the players or the clubs will fall back on in the time of crises and breaches and thus look at who goes right or wrong.