Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – A group of returning and newly elected members of the House of Representatives, the ‘9th Assembly Progressives’ has adopted Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker and Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase as Deputy Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives respectively. The group, led by a ranking member of the House, Hon. Oluwole Oke (Obokun/Oriade Federal Constituency, Osun State) comprised non-APC members and members-elect, with large spread among the minority parties, various geopolitical zones and different gender lines. According to findings by our correspondent, the 9th Assembly Progressives currently had 60 lawmakers in its membership. According to a statement issued by the group on Thursday, the move to endorse the duo of Gbajabiamila and Wase for Speaker and Deputy Speaker positions, was informed by a number of factors. “First, in mature democracies with entrenched legislative traditions, the moment there is a leadership vacuum, the leader of a majority party in the legislature automatically assumes headship of that House. Examples abound, including, the recent Speakership of Nancy Pelosi. “For this reason and in order for us to deepen the progressive values in the National Assembly, we, the 9th Assembly Progressives, have adopted the joint ticket of Hon. Femi/Hon. Wase in the Speakership race. “Second, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, who doubles as the Leader of Hon. Femi’s Party, has nominated him for the Speakership position, deeming him as a man that will foster peace, unity and prosperity throughout the 9th Assembly. “Endorsing and voting for him is therefore an endorsement and vote for a smooth and productive working relationship between the executive and the legislature in the new government. “Third, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila is the most experienced and prepared candidate in the current Speakership race. Hon. Femi has been a member of the House since 2003 and has played a pivotal role in creating the right legislative culture, values and practice which now characterise the legislative arm of government. “His commitment to the defence of democratic values is glaring and he has been consistent in his views, values and votes, which is the hallmark of a true parliamentarian. “Fourth, since becoming a member in 2003, Hon. Femi has sponsored some of the most critical bills that have been debated on the floor of the House of Representatives. Some of his bills were pivotal and contributed to the amendment of the 1999 Constitution,” the group pointed out.