Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Nearly 70 percent of American voters believe a sitting president should be able to be charged criminally, but 61 percent oppose Congress beginning the process to impeach President Trump, a new survey released Wednesday found, According to Nypost.com. The Quinnipiac University Poll showed 69 percent of voters overall agree that the occupant of the White House should be subject to criminal charges, while 24 percent said the president shouldn’t be charged until after leaving office. Broken down by political party, Republicans by 52-35 percent and Democrats by 83-12 percent say a sitting president should be charged, the poll said. The number is 68 – 26 percent among independent voters. Asked whether Trump committed crimes before he took office, voters agree by a 57 – 29 percent margin but they are divided 45 – 45 percent whether he committed crimes while in the White House. And a majority – 55 – 35 percent – believe that special counsel Robert Mueller’s report did not clear Trump of any wrongdoing. Still, voters by 61 – 33 percent believe Congress should not try to impeach the president and 50 – 44 percent say he doesn’t deserve to be impeached. Democrats and black voters support impeachment, the only ones in favor among the voters listed by party, gender, education, age and racial group, the poll showed. But voters are divided – 48 percent say yes and 49 percent say no – over whether Congress should further investigate Trump to determine bringing impeachment charges. “Complete exoneration??? Case closed??? ‘Hold on, Mr. President,’ most American voters say,” said Tim Malloy, assistant director of the Quinnipiac Poll. “Even though questions clearly linger on the true thrust of special counsel Robert
Mueller’s report, an even larger majority says impeachment is just not the way to go.” Neither party gets a pass on how they’re handling impeachment. Voters by 64 – 25 disapprove of Democrats and 59 – 24 percent dislike the way Republicans are dealing with the impeachment issue. The poll surveyed 1,214 voters nationwide between June 6 and June 10. It has a plus/minus 3.5 percentage point margin of error.