Hon Washington Osifo, member elect, representing Uhunmwode Constituency spoke with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO on behalf of the 15 opposing members of the Edo State House of Assembly on the crisis rocking the House, allegation of setting up parallel House and other issues. Excerpts: What is the next line of action on the imbroglio in the Edo House of Assembly? I am sure you already know our demand, our demand is that minority cannot choose a speaker over us the majority because the very essence of democracy suggest, is a game of the majority, where majority will have their way and minority will have their say and the institution of the law making body is the hub of good governance, is the hub of democracy to do otherwise will mean to stand on the head of justice. What we all know now is that they chose June 17, and they constituted the minority to produce a speaker over majority by using nine over fifteen to carry the position. What has also happened is that we all now know that on the 18th we held another Press Conference to condemn that act that it is unconstitutional and ask that the proper thing be done in line with constitutional provision which means issuing a proclamation, bring it to the knowledge of the entire world which also include the 24 members who are supposed to be the principal concerned persons for the purpose of that inauguration bring it properly to their knowledge as a universal notice to everybody that a thing like that will be done and as it was done with that of Mr. President at the National Assembly wherein sufficient notice was given days before the inauguration through the proclamation letter issued to the clerk of the House of both chambers, so, for me that is the right way to go. The people must be allowed to exercise their democratic right of voting, of electing who lead them in the House. So I am not comfortable and we are not comfortable with a situation where minority were orchestrated to give birth to the Speaker who will rule over majority, it doesn’t work that way. What is your grouse against the new Speaker, Okiye? We do not have anything against Frank Okiye, he is one of us, he is a perfect gentleman, he knows the job just like every other persons that are contesting but what we are saying is that we don’t care about that, what has happened now is that they concentrated on this loose, saying that the end justifies the means but we are saying the concept is more important than the outcome, therefore, they must follow the concept as prescribed by constitution so that the outcome can be respected. That is exactly what we are saying. It is now left for those in authority to look at our petition and do what is just, what is conscientious, what is proper, what is fit and what is acceptable in a modern democracy. What is your reaction to your constituency’s threat to recall you if you fail to toll the line of the governor? The truth is that, that is even laughable, it goes to tell us the problem we have with our democracy; I said it just now when evil men try to trample on good conscience all they try to do is to kill the will to give your best in any office you occupy. If my people are aware, not even my people, a few of them that are doing this they are aware that governor himself has said severally that Uhunmwode constituency where I came from is the most backward in terms of development of human and infrastructure. It is a fact that our headquarters which is Ehor looks like the least developed place in other Local Government, it is the most rural, we don’t have roads, there are gullies everywhere in our Local Government, it is practically abandoned by the real indigenes of the place, only settlers from other places who came there because the people have migrated from the Local Government. We don’t have sufficient power, most of our villages are not electrified, in very many parts of the Local Government there are no water, our farmers are cut off from the exterior because there are no roads and because we have arable lands, their farm produce get rotten, there is no access to bring their farm product out to sell, neither is there access for those who want to buy to go to the hinterland to buy. We are like a conquered people and those who have conscience should rather think of the lamentable state of our people to do something about it. I thought instead of coming around to say go and support the governor as if they are closer to the governor than myself, I thought that good conscience would prevail over evil conscience, I thought that instead of using the scares resources that they don’t even have to call a meeting of a few over the decision of a vast majority of people, over 12,000 people who voted for me, I thought that what they should do is to come together to address the critical under-development of the Local Government and stand and send a communiqué to the Governor to say that we will support you but we also want you to address the needs of our people, I thought that is the most reasonable thing to do. Now what is the way forward, are you planning to set up a parallel assembly? The Law does not say you should set up a parallel House of assembly, we are law abiding people, what we are saying is that they should do the right thing and doing the right thing will mean calling on the 24 of us and to do the right thing we will vote our choice, it could be that the choice could turn out to be what they have done because Okiye is not my enemy. He is my friend, I have told you he has the capacity just like the others, all that is done in the business of parliament lobbying is allowed, I was not lobbied, nobody told me that they will do anything on that day like this, I did not have chance to vote for my speaker, majority of us didn’t have that chance and you think we should go to sleep and just rest? We will continue to demand that the right thing is done, we will continue to speak to their conscience and also to let the governor know that his goodwill, because of the bad advisers that he has, selfish and inordinate advisers that he has around him he is burning his goodwill; he is burning his goodwill. Because what is happening today can only happen during the military era, you do not stand on the head of justice and you want to get the applause of the people.