Powered by RubiQube Ad Network OWERRI – Rochas Okorocha, the immediate past governor of Imo State has appealed to his successor, Emeka Ihedioha, to take charge as the governor of the state and halt the incessant harassment and abuse of his wife and children by his senior appointees and their foot soldiers. He advised Ihedioha not to create an ugly history or set a very bad precedence as the first governor of the state who took delight in harassing the children and wife of the man he succeeded as governor. The former governor, in statement by Sam Onwuemeodo, his media aide, pointed out that his predecessor, Ikedi Ohakim, never harassed or abused the children and wife of Achike Udenwa, who he succeeded as governor, while he (Okorocha) did not harass or abuse the wife and children of Ohakim who he succeeded, stressing that Ihedioha should follow those examples. Onwuemeodo, in his statement, claimed, “His appointees have been harassing and castigating the children and wife of the former governor even at public functions and in the media. This is not good for the office of governor. “They can criticise or malign Rochas Okorocha on any issue, which they have been doing, but to begin to harass the children and wife is unacceptable to us and indeed to all decent men and women in the society.” According to him, thugs believed to be working for the Secretary to the State Government, Chief Onyeaguocha, invaded a mechanic workshop around the Orji flyover and took away a vehicle undergoing repair and owned by the daughter of the former governor, Uloma Nwosu, nee Okorocha. He stated that even when she later sent her staff with the particulars of the vehicle to show that the vehicle did not belong to the state government and to show that she bought the vehicle long time ago, they took it away, they threatened to beat her and detain her and never cared to look at the particulars of the vehicle. Onwuemeodo argued that if Ihedioha’s government wanted anything from any of the former governor’s children or wife, they could do so through the police or DSS in the state, stressing that invading their houses or impounding their private vehicles even from the mechanics for any reason, was barbaric and should be frowned at. “It is also important to remind those who have got appointments for chewing election result sheets that no human being has the monopoly of thuggery or lawlessness and the most dangerous situation could arise when people are pushed to the wall. “It also gives the wrong impression that those who want to be Secretary to the Government of the State (SSG) should only need to tear or chew election result sheets. Okorocha’s wife and children never committed any crime by remaining in the state after he had left as governor, when the children and wives of those before him are all at overseas. They are here because they believe in the state and Owelle had an addiction for the good of the state. Finally, people should not see Rochas Okorocha’s penchant for peace and tolerance as weakness. A word should be enough for the wise,” he concluded.