Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Curtain will be drawn on the 2019 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) today with Enyimba and Kano Pillars in pole position to win the league. It is not only the league title that is at stake, two continental slots are also up for grabs. The four games in the Super 6 playoffs, Enyimba are the only team to have sealed a continental place for next season, while FC Ifeanyiubah are the only team out of the running having lost all their four games. Enyimba, who top the playoff group with nine points from four matches with plus 3 goals aggregate, need a win today over another title contender, third placed Akwa United, who are on six points, to be assured of their eight league title. Should they beat Akwa United the outcome of the game between second placed Pillars on eight points and fifth placed Lobi Stars on four points will be inconsequential for the title. However, Pillars will need a win to be assured of CAF Champions League next season. But if Enyimba lose or draw, then a win for Pillars means the title will head towards Kano if they beat Lobi. Should Enyimba and Pillars lose, it means Akwa United might ‘steal’ the title and head towards Uyo. The top three teams will represent the country continentally next season. Akwa United head Coach Rafael Everton is expected to recall former Enyimba star Mfon Udoh – who came on as substitute in their last two games – to the starting lineup and the Brazilian acknowledges that it will be a difficult game on Wednesday. “We will continue to believe. We came here to work and we will continue to believe that we will win the league. It is (going to be) a difficult game, it is a derby but we’ve not lost in all the games we have played so we will start planning to win the last game,” Everton told www.npfl.ng. Kano Pillars are the only remaining unbeaten side in these Playoffs and they require just a point from their last game against Lobi Stars to seal a return to the continent since 2015. Pillars will continue to rely on forwards Nyima Nwagua and Ebuka David Odenigbo against a Lobi Stars side who can still finish third with a win should both Rangers and Akwa United lose their games. Another side with their destiny not directly in their hands is current Cup winners Rangers International. They are expected to have a straight forward win on paper over FC Ifeanyiubah but that may not be sufficient for them if Lobi Stars do not do them the favour of beating Pillars. Rangers have five points, three less than Pillars but will have to win by at least a 3-goal margin against the 2016 Federation Cup winners and pray that Pillars lose, or Akwa United fail to win if they intend to make it a back-to-back appearance in the CAF Confederation Cup.