YOLA – The Nigerian Customs Service has intercepted eight Mine/Bomb Resistant amoured personnel carriers at  Konkol, a borderline village in Maiha local government area of Adamawa state, between Nigeria and Cameroon republic. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Investigation revealed that the sophisticated weapons were being taken to the enclave of Boko Haram fighters but the suppliers missed their way. It was not clear whether the vehicles were exiting or coming into the country, just as newsmen could not as at the time of this report verify who were manning the military hardware. However, sources within the Nigeria Customs who do not want to be mentioned, reveled this to newsmen saying, “Yes we have the eight mine/Bomb resistant equipment at our area command office in Yola, but you know I cannot be quoted because I am not in the right position to do so. “You may wish to contact the Customs Public Relations Officer in Abuja, you’ll be furnished with more information Mr. Journalist”, the officer said. He added further, “it was a successful operations, as our officers who we’re on the lookout at their duty posts spotted these bulletproof tanks at a lonely location and immediately moved to track them down.” Efforts to reach the Public Relations Officers of either  the Army or the Customs operations were unsuccessful as phone calls directed to their respective GSM phones were not answered. Newsmen could not immediately verify the destination of the military hardware even as the region is facing serious security situation due to the activities of the Boko Haram terrorists. There are also indications that the military high command in Abuja has directed an urgent investigation into the discovery, just as the equipment are currently at Customs Adamawa/Taraba Area command in Yola. What is however, clear is that Kamardeen Olumoh, Customs Area Comptroller for Adamawa/Taraba command is depicted in a picture in what looks like a handover ceremony between the Customs and the Nigerian Army. As of now, no record of any arrest was made available.