Chief Emmanuel Okumagba a PDP stalwart from Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State is the President-General of Okere-Urhobo kingdom in Warri. In this interview, he spoke on several national issues, including the appointment of new ministers, development of Warri and its environs and the marginalisation of Indigenous Urhobo of Warri by the Delta State government, amongst other issues. Excerpts: President Muhammadu Buhari recently inaugurated 43 ministers. Although you are a PDP chieftain, can you say that the appointments were equitably distributed and fairly done? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network An Urhobo adage says that it is those who jointly fell a bat tree that jointly share the loot thereafter. President Muhammadu Buhari was elected on the platform of the APC and he has the right to choose from among those who helped him to achieve his victory. And whoever he picks into his cabinet, he is just acting to the standard and dictates of the provision of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The only persons who can oppose and criticise it will be acceptable is the Senate where the screen, approve and disapprove. They have that power. Whosoever President Buhari picks in his cabinet, it is his prerogative; and it also the prerogative of the Senate to screen, approve or disapprove any of his nominees. And I think that is what is going on. So, nobody should grudge Mr. President for choosing like minds; birds of the same feather. What explanation could you give to the President’s appointment of two ministers from a state like Anambra which is a PDP state knowing full well that the President is an APC man? You see, the man has the prerogative of appointing what ought to be round pegs in round holes. And some of these appointees, you and I don’t have their background. So, we don’t know whether or not they are appropriately selected. But the only body that can screen that to know that yes, two may come from this particular state because they are best placed to do the job for Mr. President is the Senate. And when it happens that way, the issue of conscience is no more there. It is the man who thinks that Mr. A and Mr. B can do the job. And that is what happens in the civilised world. You think of who can do the job and not where he or she comes from. If Mr. President is doing that, then it is all well and good. It is his conscience that should prick him that he is not being nepotic. If his conscience tells him he is doing the right thing, then it is all well and good. You and I cannot fault the credentials of a man you don’t know anything about. Just last week the former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu was assaulted and harassed by some Nigerians in Nuremberg, Germany when he honoured an invitation to deliver a speech during the annual Igbo Yam Festival celebration in that country. What is your take on that? The attack is barbaric as far as I’m concerned. You go to another man’s country to harass your kinsman whom you formally invited to attend a programme. It’s wrong. Undermining the fact that the likes of Ekweremadu may have made mistakes to join forces with government to do things that are un-towards to their people; but that is not enough. You are in a foreign land. You have to keep the peace. They ought to keep the peace and show some decorum. They should come home to contribute to the development of their father land rather than staying there to harass a kinsman whom they formally invited. It was like the man was purposely invited to be humiliated. It is uncivil. If the German police take them up they will not be wrong. The German police cannot claim that the hoodlums did not contravene any law. That will be funny because we saw the video clips of the harassment; how he was being pursued and his convoy. How can anyone say that there was no offence in that? Did the people not get permit to use that venue? I saw it; a former Deputy President of Senate being harassed in front of the police. We saw the video recording and the un-towards language they were using against him in front of the police. The scenario cannot be said to be without any intent to intimidate him or harass him. The last time we met you spoke about the state government’s plan for the development of Warri/Uvwie and its environs. Not too long thereafter, the government made a law setting it up and constituted a board for that purpose. Do you see the government being serious as to put money into the project? Secondly, are you satisfied with the membership of the agency? I actually mooted the idea of developing of Warri as a former provincial headquarters. Today, it is the only provincial headquarters that is not a state capital. And state capitals have their allocations, what goes for their development. I mooted the idea to the governor at the town hall meeting sometime early last year at the Federal Government College. And I did explain during that discourse that Warri needed a facelift and that one of its biggest problems is the absence of drains and roads. I also mentioned the fact that Warri people are buyers and sellers. What they need is good roads and drainages rather than a regularly flooded town on account of blockages of natural water ways and low level of drains. And the governor, in his wisdom, bought the idea and in fact, set up what is called a ministerial committee in which three of his commissioners – works, was the chairman, environment and lands and survey, were members. Their permanent secretaries were all members. There were directors also who were members of the committee. One engineer of Itsekiri origin was to represent the Itsekiri interest and I was to represent Urhobo interest. In actual fact, there was an engineer who was to represent the Nigeria Society of Engineers in Warri. For over three and half months we went round all the flood prone areas and the old water ways; we did a thorough movement in Warri and the governor expanded the Warri thing to include Uvwie and part of Udu area. An interim report was submitted early this year. The committee and the consultant came up with a bill of about N30 billion. While submitting the report, the governor did say that it will not be possible to throw that kind of amount at the committee within a year, knowing the kind of allocation and IGR we get. So, he ordered that the committee, especially the technocrat, should go and put it in phases or prioritize it. The job was done and about two Mondays ago, a final report was submitted. And a week before the submission of the final report, the governor had announced the composition of two boards – the Asaba Capital Territory Development board and Uvwie/Warri and Environs Development board. I know he appointed people of his choice. True to type a governor or anyone in charge of governance has the right to pick those who he believes are capable of putting effect to his proposal. And he appointed five persons from within the state – both for Warri and the State capital.