AKURE – Dr. Olawale Oke, Chairman, Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) Ondo State chapter, on Wednesday tasked President Muhammadu Buhari on the threatening security situation in the country, noting that most medical professionals are fleeing the country due to this.
Oke made the call in Akure, Ondo State capital, during the association’s 42nd Annual General Meeting and Scientific Conference entitled, “Impact of Incessant Insecurity on Healthcare Delivery Services in Nigeria” held at the NMA House, Igbatoro Road, Akure.
Oke explained that many medical professionals who left the country did so, not only because of seeking greener pastures but due to rising insecurity in the country.
Although he noted that poor remuneration, poor condition of service and inadequate infrastructure contributed to rising rate of brain drain, especially in the health sector, he emphasised on the urgent need for Mr. President to tackle the dreading insecurity situations in the country.
He suggested that a security forum should be instituted by President Buhari, comprising stakeholders from all sectors, with view to finding solutions to the insecurity in the land.
Dr. Omotayo Sunday, who doubles as the vice chairman I of NMA and Chairman, Organising Committee of Annual Conference, disclosed that the title of the conference was influenced by the prevailing circumstances in the country vis-à-vis how it affects medical practice.
He expressed fear at the rate medical personnel were trooping out of the country, warning that if not checked, it would get to a situation that the remaining medical personnel would not be enough to attend to patients and it would give room for quacks springing up at alarming rate.
Dr. Adenike Enikuomehin of University of Medical Sciences Hospital, Akure noted that most people spend huge money on securing their family and property, thereby seeking refuge in foreign countries where security is assured.
She noted that many families have lost huge sums to paying ransom for the release of their kidnapped relations, calling on the Federal Government to see to the security of both formal and informal sectors earnestly.
The royal father of the day, Oba (Dr.) Francis Adefarakan, the Olowa of Igbara-Oke, urged the medical personnel to continue to work with utmost professionalism, assuring them that government was not resting on its oars to arrest the insecurity situations.
He said governors and traditional rulers in the South West were working on how to check the insecurity crises.
Meanwhile, in his lecture, the Chief Medical Director, Nigeria Police Medical Services, Ondo State Command, Dr. Dere Olalekan (Chief Superintendent of Police) observed that the insecurity has deprived the people in all sectors of achieving their potentials.
He said, “It could be understood that the state of insecurity affects the overall performance of individuals upon which the development of groups, communities and society at large depends.
“Where a state of security is challenged, individuals and groups may not be able to perform and reach the levels they ought to reach respectively.”
Oke, however, appealed for “greater synergy between the security agencies and medical professionals in order to sanitise the security atmosphere in our dear country.”