Lagos – After several weeks of waiting, President Muhammadu Buhari finally assigned Sunday Akin Dare to sports on Wednesday in Abuja. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Indeed, sports stakeholders were anxious to know who will be the sports helsman among the 43 designated ministers. This anxiety stems from past experience of some of ministers who were square pegs in round holes. The sports community has welcome Sunday Dare as the country’s 35th sports minister since the first occupier, Chief Joseph Modupe Johnson (JMJ) in 1960. But as was the case with most of the 34 helmsmen before him, there is little to connect him to sports, thus, he will have to learn on the job. Of the previous 34 helmsmen before him, only the late Sampson Emeka Omeruah ever got a second chance. He is coming on board when the fortunes of the sector have nosedived; when athletes’ morale and also that of the staff of the ministry are their lowest ebb; facilities are in descript state and corruption having taking a firm root in the ministry. He will, expectedly, start his learning with the ongoing African Games in Morocco. Being a ‘stranger’ in the sports may not necessarily be a disadvantage if he applies the best principles of administration. For the records, Dare is the 14th Sports Minister since the advent of the fourth republic 20 years ago. The import of this is that the sports ministry is the most unstable and therefore has the highest turnover of ministers. On the average, a minister spends just a little over one year in office before he is shown the exit door. Only Solomon Dalung, the immediate past minister served a full term. This is the first lesson Dare has to have at the back of his mind. Time is too short to begin any experimental exercise. Like most before him, it is very likely he too is planning a visit to the National Stadium in Lagos. The new minister should save himself the rituals, which almost all his predecessors had done since 2003 when the national edifice went into ruins. It became a sort of ‘tourist’ attraction to every new sports minister. Dare should just ask for the files and go through all the observations of his predecessors and attempt a revival of our national pride. It is not only the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos that has been left to rot away, the Liberty stadium, Ibadan now Obafemi Awolowo Stadium and the MKO Abiola stadium, Abuja have all been abandoned for years. They need renovations. Virtually all the previous 14 sports ministers ended up being football ministers to the neglect of other sports. Will Dare dare to be different by not being a football minister? Except probably Bolaji Abdulahi who resolved lingering issues in the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), football spelt doom for all the other past sports ministers since 1999. This is a big lesson. Corruption in the ministry has also become a rule rather than exception. Funds budgeted for the various sporting federations to participate in international tournaments vanishes midair. The federations are not funded to perform their statutory roles. For the past five years, there hardly any of the federation that has received a running grants. Yet funds are budgeted for this annually. Athletes’ welfare only exists on pages of newspaper. They never get to the athletes. Majority of the secretaries are only interested in their estacodes not the development of the sport by ensuring that athletes’ welfare are taken care off. Severally athletes have been thrown out of their hotels due to the failure of the country to funds their trips. A case in hand is the recent embarrassment the nation suffered when the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) threatened to sanction the country for failing to refund the $135,000 mistakenly paid it in 2007. The signatory to the account, are all staff of the ministry, how come till today the ministry has not told the country how the funds were spent, who ordered its withdrawal. According to veteran sports journalist, Kunle Solaja, Dare should endeavour to build a functional sports data bank for the sport ministry. “Anthony Ikazoboh on September 26, 1990 inaugurated a 25-man National Sports Library Committee under the leadership of Dr. Awoture Eleyae. “The objective was to document all aspects of Nigerian sports,” said Solaja. According to him,  Ikazoboh remarked at the time: “sometimes, records available are too old to depend on for modern treatment of sports. “All along, we have depended on half-truths in some cases to decide on issues for lack of reference points and low academic content of publications on sports.” Over 30 years since, the committee did not achieve the set goal, possibly because months later, Ikazoboh whose project it was, was transferred from the sports ministry to transport. If there were a functional documentation process at the sports ministry, it will aid the functions of organisers and other administrators. Planning process would be aided with such records serving as working documents, even for a new comer into sports administration. A body without history will not be able to know its past and evaluate the present and project its future. The Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) has also called on the sports minister to make grassroots development the plank of his administration. According to it, the dwindling in nation’s sports fortune is linked to “lack of concerted effort to discover budding talents that abound in the length and breadth of the country,” calling him to give equal attention to all sports. “SWAN believes that Nigeria deserves more than what the country is getting from sports in view of the abundance of natural talents in practically every field; hence our hope that you will give priority to grassroots sports. The body also called on the minister for improvement in the yearly allocation to the sector from the Federation Account, on the premise that “sports is a huge industry, that if well programmed has the potential to meaningfully engage a lot of the teeming youths.” “SWAN is also looking forward to the enactment of a workable national sports policy that will enable every sport to grow, and the creation of an endowment fund for our sports heroes; as well as, an environment that will encourage private sector investment. “SWAN advocates the upgrading of the National Institute for Sports (NIS) to a Degree Awarding Institute as well as the establishment of a University for Sports with campuses across the country. While others are setting agenda for the new sports helsman, Chief Segun Odegbami (MON) has solicited for support for the new Sports Minister. His reason is because “he is not only cerebral, but good, a fantastic journalist, very cultured, broadminded and knowledgeable.” Dare, Odegbami said, needs the support of all stakeholders to succeed, hoping that he would bring the desired change that the sector seriously longs for. Already, the minister has told directors and heads of parastatals to think outside the box in proffering solutions to challenges facing the ministry, believing that the success of the ministry was critical to the agenda of President Mohammadu Buhari aimed at lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. He promised to look at sports beyond football, noting that because of the skyrocketing population of the youth, all hands must be on deck in the effort to meet aspirations of millions of Nigeria sports lovers, as well as helping the youth develop digital skills and assist their startups. “Youth and sport development is at the centre of lifting 100 million people out of poverty in 10 years. If you look at the population growth of our country today, we know where the youths stand. “So, youth development is the key. We have youths and sports, so our mandate area is clear. “We must broaden our horizon. We must deepen the work we do and the quality of work we do. I am not unaware of the controversies and issues within this ministry; it is a ministry dear to the heart of Nigerians. “Beyond soccer, we have other sports, but at the heart of that work is also youth development. But there are other ways we can develop the youths. We can teach them digital skills and help them with their start-ups. So, we will be thinking outside the box”, said Dare. He promised further: “We have a youth population that is restless that is hyper; that is demanding; that want answers and I am going to bring down the silos. I am going to revitalise inter-ministerial collaborations. I am going to work with ministries we can work with you, pull resources together, and pull skills together to make success of our assignments.” “I will hit ground running. As you can see, I am rolling up my agbada, so the work starts now. Let us get ready and let us roll up our sleeves and work together”. “The ministry stands on two legs, youth development and sports development. “I think we are going to see a total reorientation. We are going to have necessary crucial conversation and engagement with all stakeholders when necessary to be able to empower not just the youths but also to develop sports to bring it at par with global 21st century sport. “So we go to work from today and it can be done because we have the resources, we have the personnel and we have the expertise. He also hinted that he will step on toes and confrontational if need be to achieve success in his new job. Dare was born on May 29, and he is a veteran Nigerian journalist who has worked in diverse aspects of the media, they include broadcasting (TV and radio), journalism (electronic and print), and decades of multimedia journalism experience spanning over 25 years. Had his secondary school education at Baptist High School in Jos; a city in the Middle Belt of Nigeria from 1978 to 1983, shortly afterwards he studied for an Advanced Level education at Oyo State College of Arts and Science, Ile-Ife, Nigeria. He thereafter gained admission to Ahmadu Bello University where he graduated with a Bachelor of Science (BSc.) honours in International Studies in 1991. His quest for knowledge motivated him to delve further to obtain a Master of Arts (MA) in Law and Diplomacy from the University of Jos, Plateau state Nigeria in 1996. Dare was opportune to be selected as a Freedom Forum Fellow and Visiting Scholar at the School of Journalism – New York University (NYU) in 1998. His professional excellence positioned him for another highly esteemed international experience; Harvard Nieman Journalism Fellowship at Harvard University between 2000 and 2001 where he enrolled for Media and Public Policy studies. In 2011 Dare once again distinguished himself among his contemporaries from across the world and won the Reuters Foundation Journalism Research Fellowship at University of Oxford, United Kingdom where he contributed to the body of knowledge in the field of media, and researched “New Media and Citizen Journalism in Africa – A Case Study: Using New Media Tools and Citizen Journalism to Investigate Corruption in Nigeria.” In 2009, Dare was appointed Senior Special Assistant (Media) to the Minister of Information and Communications, while serving in this capacity he managed decisions on all subject matter that revolved around media and communications, as well as public information dissemination and media policies that fell within the jurisdiction of the Ministry.