A man in Washington state has killed both himself and his wife after
raising fears about struggling to pay medical expenses for her ongoing
health conditions. The couple were identified by the Whatcom County Medical Examiner as
Brian S Jones, 77, and Patricia Whitney-Jones, 76. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mr Jones, who lived near the city of Ferndale, called emergency
services on Wednesday morning and said he was going to shoot himself,
according to the Whatcom County Sheriff’s Office. He said he had prepared a note for the sheriff which contained
information and instructions. In spite of the operator’s efforts to
keep him on the line, Mr Jones is then said to have told the operator,
“we will be in the front bedroom”, before disconnecting the call. Police arrived around 15 minutes later and set up a perimeter around
the house and attempted to intervene for about an hour with a crisis
negotiator and loud hailer. But it was too late, as officials then used a robot-mounted camera to
look inside the home and found the bodies of the married couple. Authorities said they believe Mr Jones shot his wife and then himself.
They were found lying together. A statement from Whatcom sheriff Bill Elfo said state officials are
investigating the incident which is deemed to be a murder-suicide. According to the sheriff, Mr Jones told the operator: “I am going to
shoot myself.” Several notes were left in the home “citing severe ongoing medical
problems with the wife and expressing concerns that the couple did not
have sufficient resources to pay for medical care”, according to the
sheriff’s statement. “It is very tragic that one of our senior citizens would find himself
in such desperate circumstances where he felt murder and suicide were
the only option. Help is always available with a call to 911,” Mr Elfo
said in the post. Numerous firearms were seized and two dogs found in the house were
taken to an animal shelter. Sherrie Schulteis, a neighbour of the couple, said she often spoke to
Mr Jones and watched out for each other’s homes but was totally
unaware about the extent to which he was struggling mentally and
financially. “[Mr Jones and I] were always waving and talking about our yards or
our flowers,” she told The Lynden Tribune. “It’s a little tiny
community where we all know each other, but we don’t really know each
other.”