LAGOS – Ethiopian Airlines has said that it earns at least $80m annually from its Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities, which is situated in Addis Ababa. Mrs. Mesfin Tasew, Chief Operating Officer (COO), Ethiopian Airlines disclosed this to journalists on Thursday in Lagos. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said the airline wanted to maximise the facility by developing internal capacity on engines, components and revenue, stressing that its revenue was expected to grow faster. He further stated that the airline was supporting Nigerian carriers like Med- View and Arik Air with their maintenance. According to him, an Arik’s Q400 aircraft was currently in Addis-Ababa for C-check, adding that prior to that he said Ethiopian Airline repaired and maintained several aircraft for former Air Nigeria, Chachangi and Belview aircraft. Ethiopian Airlines is reputed to own the largest MRO facility in Africa with six maintenance hangars. The airline maintains all Boeing models of aircraft except B747. The MRO also repairs Airbus 350 state-of-the-art aircraft, among other Airbus airplanes. He said: “First of all, I will like to say that Ethiopian Airlines today has the largest MRO facility in Africa. We repair all Boeing models of aircraft except 747. We also repair the Airbus A350 aircraft, which is the newest Airbus aircraft and the Bombardier Q400 aircraft in Addis Ababa. “We have six hangars and a very big engine shop. We have several component repair shops. We have been doing this for several decades now. Primary, it was developed to support operations of Ethiopian Airlines but we are also supporting other African Airlines from different parts of Africa. Today we support several airlines including Asky in Togo and Arik Air in Nigeria. “We have been looking for a dependable partner to join and establish an MRO facility in Nigeria. We had some discussions earlier with some companies including Aero Contractors but unfortunately, so far we have not agreed with any one. However, we are still looking for a partner.” Besides, he explained that the airline would commence operations from Port Harcourt International airport, on September 3, 2019, following the closure of Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu. Recall that on August 24, the Federal Government shut down Enugu airport for major repairs and work on the airfield. Tasew said Ethiopian Airlines was dedicated to serve the South East region, hence the plans to shift the Enugu flight to Port Harcourt airport. Tasew said the airline would continue operating into Port Harcourt until Enugu airport was ready. “We have planned to shift the Enugu flight to Port Harcourt and we will start operations on 3rd of September. We will continue operating to this airport until Enugu airport becomes ready. When Enugu is ready, we will go back to Enugu,” he said.