Since elected into the Senate, the immediate past former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu has been a voice for the Igbo people. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He has always been at the forefront for any cause that has to do with the South East. This act may have been the reason why sympathies were coming from every nook and cranny of the country when he was brutalised and manhandled by members of the Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB) last week Saturday in Nuremberg, Germany. However, different reactions have been trailing the attack melted out against the former Deputy Senate President in far-away Germany where he was invited to deliver a keynote address at the event organised by patriotic Igbos to commemorate the 2nd Igbo Annual Festival in Germany. While some people have been condemning the attack against Ekweremadu, others viewed it from a different perspective, insisting that he has been in the corridor of power to deserve what was melted out to him by the members of IPOB in Germany. A school of thought said Ekweremadu does not deserve the attack against him, pointed out that the former Deputy President of the Senate has been doing well for the people of South East. Specifically, that school of thought said that not only has he fought for the release of IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, but has also fought for development of the region even in the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. Recall that Ekweremadu was one of the key persons, who facilitated the release of Kanu from prison when he was arrested by the administration of President Buhari. Before then, the former Deputy Senate President had accused Buhari presidency that the continued detention of Kanu was part of the marginalisation of the Igbo race and as such he and other Biafra agitators arrested should be released. When the issue of South East Development Commission (SEDC) and other developmental issues came up at the National Assembly, Ekwerwmadu was on top of the game. As if to say Ekweremadu described as one of the leaders of the South East was not actually doing anything substantial for the region, the IPOB members, who are also Igbo people descended on him like a common criminal and beat him black and blue in Germany and also warned other Igbo political leaders that they will be attacked whenever they are found in western countries. Narrating why a man of Ekweremadu calibre was attacked in a far-away country, IPOB alleged that the former Deputy President of the Senate engaged in the politics of personal survival, accusing him of being a self-centered politician. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB alleged that Ekweremadu had not promoted any legislative advocacy for the South-East geopolitical zone as the longest serving senator. They said although they had not expected the lawmaker to change Nigeria, but said that he refused to voice out anger and frustration in the Senate. IPOB statement reads: “This distinguished Senator is a typical example of the new breed Igbo politician, permanently engaged in the politics of personal survival, forty years after the Biafra genocide. “Ike Ekweremadu, the distinguished Senator representing Enugu state is the longest serving Igbo senator. He has survived in the murky waters of Nigerian politics by playing to the rules of the politics of survival. ”Enugu, his home state is besieged on all fronts by Fulani militants. Men, women and children, even priests are being slaughtered on a daily basis. We are yet to hear our distinguished Senator speak with clarity on the matter. “Those who are blaming IPOB Germany for manhandling Ekweremadu are poor students of history. “You do not persuade an angry people with patriotic rhetoric. Leaders who cannot gauge the anger and fury in their land must be truly blind and not qualified to represent them. “Igbo politicians like Ekweremadu loved Nigerian than the owners of Nigeria, a case of being more Catholic than the Pope. For a mere slave role, they love their prison and zealously promote a system that puts their people down.” The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; his deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege; the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); the presidency; All Progressives Congress (APC); Senators Enyinnaya Abaribe, Orji Uzor Kalu; the Board of Trustees Chairman of PDP, Walid Jubrin; the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide (OYC), and a host of others have, however, condemned the embarrassing action against Ekweremadu. They pointed out that the former President of the Senate should not have been the victim, as he has tried his best for the Igbo people in the National Assembly. The leadership of PDP had said that the attack was uncalled for, unprovoked and cannot be justified under any guise whatsoever. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan had added that such assault on a leader is completely unacceptable and does not portray the nation in proper light. The PDP therefore charged the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, as well as the German government to take appropriate decisive action on the matter. The party also urged the federal government, particularly, the National Assembly, to take urgent comprehensive step to address issues leading to acts of resentment and agitations by Nigerians within and outside the country in the last four years, under “President Buhari’s misrule.” Senator Omo-Agege, on his part said that the attack is not only a dastardly exportation of irrationality, but an aggressive international affront against the image of Igbos and Nigeria. The Deputy President of the Senate, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga, expressed shock over the undeserved assault and called on law enforcement agencies in Germany to investigate and bring to book all those involved in the vicious attack. “Senator Ekweremadu honoured the invitation of patriotic Igbos in Germany who wanted him to deliver a keynote address at the event organised to commemorate the New Yam Festival but some aggressively discourteous elements hijacked the effort to perpetrate a disgraceful assault that seeks to deepen the portrayal of members of the Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) as enemies of democratic norms and values in which the majority must always have its way after the minority must have had its due say in all matters. “What they did is not only a violent assault against the good image of the Igbo race across the world but an aggressive attack against the traditional norms of a people known to be hardworking and respectful of meaningful contributions by leaders such as Senator Ekweremadu. “Such disappointing physical abuse also grossly disregards Senator Ekweremadu’s democratic antecedents and his long-standing commitment to the cause of his people. But, as he has said out of the usual largeness of his forgiving heart, these people know not what they do. “Such criminal attack, along with other anti-social attempt to accuse, condemn and lynch anyone remains utterly condemnable and illegal, notwithstanding whether it takes place on Nigerian or foreign soil as it is the easiest invitation to anomie,” Senator Omo-Agege stated. While President of the Senate, Lawan had unreservedly condemned the shameful assault on Ekweremadu, the Senate Chief Whip, Kalu described the action as uncivilised, unacceptable and barbaric and Abaribe described it as reprehensible and utterly sacrilegious. Lawan, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ola Awoniyi said that Senator Ekweremadu was to give a keynote address at the Second Igbo Annual Cultural Festival and Convention organised by Ndi-Igbo Germany in that city when a mob, which identified itself as members of IPOB, invaded the venue to attack an illustrious son of Ndigbo who in his political career has consistently identified with and defended the cause of his people. He said: “It is incredibly absurd for anybody to blame the distinguished Senator for the violent criminal activities in his home base, the purported reason cited by the mob for the bewildering attack. “Senator Ekweremadu, like all his distinguished colleagues in the Ninth Assembly of the Senate, is concerned about the insecurity and other challenges in that area and other parts of Nigeria. Senator Ekweremadu has also been at the forefront of the patriotic efforts to find lasting solutions to the challenges. “The barbaric attack on Senator Ekweremadu at a forum to which he was invited to contribute to charting a course for the progress and happiness of Ndigbo debase our values as civilised people. It is most reprehensible and should be condemned by all right-thinking Nigerians.” Kalu on the other hand said he’s disappointed, irritated and worried, adding that the only way the South East region can be prosperous is by embracing dialogue, peace and unity. Urging Ndigbo to respect leaders at all level, the former governor of Abia state called on the Embassy of Nigeria in Germany, the German government and appropriate authorities to bring the perpetrators of the ugly incident to book. He said: “After watching a viral video of the physical attack on former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweramadu, I was not only disappointed but irritated and disturbed with the action of some members of IPOB. “The assault on the Senator is a slap on Igbo leaders regardless of age, party affiliation and religion. The perpetrators of the uncivilised act must face the wrath of the law.” Abaribe not only condemned the despicable act, but said it smacks of utter ignorance of the prevailing situation at home with regards to what the leaders are doing in the circumstance. He said: “It is a brazen show of ingratitude to a man who has been at the fore front in the struggle for all that is good for the Igbo race.” The Minority Leader, in a statement, said he and the entire minority caucus in the Senate are appalled on the very nauseating attack on the revered Ekweremadu for no reason whatsoever. “We condemn it.” Senator Ekweremadu he said, has given his all in standing for the Igbo race, particularly when “we stuck out our neck to arrange and stand for surety for the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu. “Obviously this is not how to repay a man, an outstanding leader of men, an unpretentious Igbo leader who has given his all even going as far as deploying his means to arrange for the bail of Nnamdi Kanu, not minding the repercussions to his illustrious political career.” Also reacting to the attack, the former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki had described as “highly unfortunate” IPOB attack on Senator Ekweremadu. The former governor of Kwara state said: ”The Nuremberg incident was highly unfortunate and Nigerians at home and in the diaspora need to avoid this kind of unnecessary distraction. ”This is a time we all have to work together to foster unity and peace in our country. I am happy Ike remains unshaking and solid in his belief about a united, strong and prosperous Nigeria.” Also condemning the attack, the ruling APC, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, described the act against the lawmaker as despicable. He accused the PDP, to which Ekweremadu belongs, of being in conspiracy with the IPOB members who carried out the act against the lawmaker and, therefore, demanded an apology. “Those involved in the despicable actions and the organisation they represent are unworthy in character. No Nigerian should be assaulted in the manner Senator Ekweremadu was. “It is an indecent action and it is below the acceptable standard of behaviour expected of our citizens whether in Nigeria or abroad,” he stated. The Board of Trustees of PDP had also joined in condemning the attack on the former Deputy President of the Senate, adding that the attack was unjustified. The BoT, in a statement by its Chairman, Sen. Walid Jibrin and Secretary, Sen. Adolphus Wabara, said that “the attack was totally uncalled for, unacceptable and unjustified. We therefore call on the federal government to address the issues that led to this attack.” IPOB on his part, has however, vowed to keep attacking Igbos political leaders outside Nigeria, with its leader, Kanu pledging an amount of money to whoever can give information on any Igbo leaders planning to come into any parts of Europe. In a swift reaction, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, (OYC), berated the leadership of IPOB for placing 1 million naira bounty on governors from the South-East. OYC in its statement signed by the President General, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, wondered how come the (IPOB) have millions of Nigeria currency instead of Biafra pounds? OYC also stated that they have uncovered the real plot and the alleged sponsors of the IPOB to attack and humiliate Igbo leaders who may succeed Buhari in 2023. The statement reads: “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide angrily call for a truce, and immediate cease fire ranging on between the South East Governors and IPOB, over the threat and counter threats being harvested from both quarters. We can no longer afford to slaughter our collective image and integrity over actions being sponsored by politicians outside Igbo land to Smack the images of Igbo Presidential hopeful ahead of 2023. “We have uncovered the real plot behind the recent harassment and threats of placing one million Naira bounty on anyone who gives useful information about overseas travel itinerary of South East Governors as an evidence that they are being sponsored by politicians outside Igbo land to discredit our leaders with millions of Naira given to them to hack down South East Governors. “How come they have millions of Nigeria currency instead of Biafra pounds? We will do everything possible to shield South East Governors from external aggression being sponsored by politicians to hack down South East Presidential hopeful. “Based on the intelligence report that there’s possibility of attacking South East Governors in Nigeria and abroad starting from next month, and we have uncovered the selfish reasons for this unholy alliance between them. We alert all South East Governors to double their security settings and don’t fall into any traps of being provoked and distracted from tackling the insecurity challenges emanating from the activities of suspected Fulani Herdsmen, this is the finest hour for all genuine lovers of Igbo culture and values to stand up and defend their political leaders and urge Ipob to retract their steps and allow peace to thrive,” the statement added. With all the condemnation trailing the attack on Ekweremadu and the testimonies of the role he played in the development of South East region, are IPOB members not killing the goose that laid the golden eggs?