Comrade Debo Adeniran, Executive Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, takes a look at ongoing peaceful protests by the Coalition for Revolution (CORE) and the arrest of the Convener, Omoyele Sowore, presidential candidate of African Action Congress (ACC). He also spoke on President Muhammadu Buhari’s new ministers, among other issues, Excerpt: National Chairman and Presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), Omoyele Sowore was mobilising Nigerians for a peaceful nationwide protests and was arrested and detained by the Department of State Service (DSS). How do you see the development? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Well, on behalf of the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), I lend my voice to the nationwide calls for the immediate and unconditional release of Mr. Sowore Omoyele, Founder and Publisher of the Online News medium, Sahara Reporters, and a Presidential candidate of All African Congress (AAC) in the last Presidential elections. CACOL as a civil anti-corruption organisation does not support violent take-over of government, especially under a democratic or people-oriented arrangement where elections are periodically organised to choose who lead the mass under a free and transparent atmosphere, devoid of any travesty of sanctity of people’s collective will. We, however, appreciate the historical reality of a burgeoning society not being able to always change its fortune or fate in a dramatic and desirable manner through electoral arrangements alone. This is why we agree with all renowned philosophers and thinkers alike who posited that, ‘civil actions’ are necessary and inevitable tonic for repositioning and rejigging the lots of the people within the labyrinth of unresolved social conflicts or contradictions. We strongly believe that for Nigeria to make progress and reclaim its prime position in the comity of modern nations, the current government should heed the call for a resort to the various outcomes of deliberations and resolutions on the contentious national issues like: resource control, state or regional Police, foreign policy, and even the making of a truly people-oriented constitution for the over 250 ethnic nationality groupings in Nigeria. We believe that no short cut exists towards achieving this than the convocation of a Sovereign National Conference (SNC), which decisions must be binding and sovereign by the very agreement of all age-long issues of altercation and relevance within the Nigerian state. The refusal of successive governments in Nigeria to admit that the coming into existence of Nigeria, though desirable, was not altogether properly negotiated; and this has in no small measure, been responsible for deep rooted suspicion, economic degradation and subversion/corruption and general state of insecurity and social upheavals. We believe that it is never too late to retrace the footpath of the nation if and when everything shows clearly that we have since lost our path as a nation. This could only be achieved through recourse to the reports of various, previous conferences and dialogues while representatives are drawn from respective counties/wards to local and state governments, directly chosen by their communities, to review all relevant issues of co-existence and amicably arrive at a suitable federal constitution and acceptable modus of running our country. Having weighted the recent calls for a ‘Revolution’ by the erudite social activist turned politician, Omoyele Sowore, we aver that calls for a revolution alone, whether ethical, agrarian, industrial or even social, does not and cannot, constitute treasonable felony acts on their own, except there are other unimpeachable evidences of arms insurrection, concrete proofs of inciting or consultations on arms struggle, etc., we may be unaware of but in possession of the state security agencies. That in itself may now also be debatable as social movements and prevailing conditions may remain veritable instruments of juxtaposition in resolving how mutiny and treason should be treated in a civil entity. However, nothing even points to these possibilities in this circumstance. We therefore, advise that Sowore Omoyele be granted an unconditional and immediate release to defray an unnecessary tension and heating up of the polity, which his continued detention is only capable of fostering. Would you say the attack on the protesters by the police were justified? If it is a protest, it is legitimate. Everybody has the right to protest. A revolution is a call for change. I don’t like the way the security agents attacked the peaceful protesters. The DSS and the others should have been on the sideline and be ready for the breakdown of law and order. Sowore and his group have right to their opinion. They did not do anything illegal. Sowore did not say he wanted to change the government, nor did he make any broadcast in any radio station. That is why I said earlier that Sowore should be granted administrative bail and be allowed to reunite with his family. How do you see President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term ministers? Do they worth the long delay? It is not because of long search for quality minds and hands that led to the delay. The delay could be because of political horse-trading. Politicians will push their agenda. President Buhari may not want to pick nominees arbitrarily not to put his home on fire. He might want to pacify the interests groups. If you scan through the list, only about 30 per cent have modicum of reliability. Many of those who made the list seem to have been appointed on basis of compensation for the boys. We have a lot of technocrats within the professionals like accountants, lawyers, lecturers, who are not lured by lucre. Attahiru Jega performed well as a lecturer and in INEC and influenced lectures to be involved in elections management and they have been doing well. We have many competent people in the academia who have integrity, and engineers, medical doctors, agriculturists, aviation experts. They are there all over the world, yearning to serve their fatherland. But they are not in politics. President Buhari did not do enough research and the waiting did not worth it. Boko Haram and bandits have been decimating Nigerians, including top military and police officers. Don’t you think it is time for a rejig of the Security Chiefs? As far as Boko Haram is concerned, President Buhari has done a lot to check insurgency. Terrorism is difficult to contend with. They are difficult to tackle. Intelligence failure could be blamed for some of the killings. It seems that there are some saboteurs in the system. Boko Haram has not been celebrating their successes it could be other groups that are adopting Boko Haram’s method. It takes military intelligence to unravel what is happening. The president has to change his security apparatus in terms of intelligence. I also see the level of banditry as sabotage. President Buhari made promises on agriculture, but he has enemies. Several of his colleagues are farmers. Many of them are wealthy and are threatened by Buhari’s stand on corruption. Many of them want to create food shortage in order to create apathy towards the government. It is, however, the primary purpose of government to protect the lives and properties of the people. How do you see the recent alarm that the Fulani vigilante groups now mount roadblocks along major roads in South West and South East? The Fulani herdsmen carrying guns should be disarmed. If they have superior fire power, it means the Federal Government’s security has failed. I have seen pictures of herdsmen with arms. Several ethnic militias coming up are dangerous. If you look at how these militias act and you allow Miyetti Allah to form vigilantes, that is dangerous. If government allows it, it amounts to brigandage. There is nothing wrong in forming vigilantes. But, they should not carry firearms, but should be informing security agents. They should not mount roadblocks. No group should be allowed to form vigilantes in zones outside their own. Fulani vigilantes should not be allowed in South West and South East or South South. It will lead to inter tribal wars. People’s cultures are different. Such fanatics or vigilantes will cause problems.