ADO-EKITI – Aare Afe Babalola, legal icon and founder, Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), has agreed in principle to donate hotel facilities to the newly refurbished Government Technical College, Ado-Ekiti. This is even as he said that the private sector must go beyond payment of levies to collaborate with government in order to rescue the decay in schools’ infrastructure. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Speaking at a parley with members of the Board for Technical and Vocational Education, led by its chairman, Kayode Babade, the Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) said that the promise to donate the hostel accommodation was part of his contributions to the development of education in the state. He lamented that the situation has remained a subsisting and growing challenge as the government of Kayode Fayemi is doing everything possible to ensure that technical colleges across the state are turned around, particularly to address the issue of youth unemployment. The legal luminary urged all sons and daughters of the state to join hands with the state government in its bid to turn around the fortune of education, saying that government alone cannot shoulder the entire burden of funding education due to competing needs of other sectors that also demand priority attention. He, therefore, enjoined the private sector to adopt a new approach towards supporting the state government in tackling the series of deficits confronting it in the institutions of learning. He said: “I strongly believe the private sector must go beyond just the payment of education levy and be ready to join hands with the state government in expanded funding for its education sector,” saying that it will ensure the technical colleges to produce graduates who can transform this state and in extension, the nation. “If there are two things that I am passionate about, they are education and entrepreneurship. I believe they go hand in hand. Some years ago, i tried to fashion out strategies for integrating entrepreneurship into the educational curriculum, in line with what obtains in the Western world.” He commended Governor Fayemi for his vision and determination to turn around the fortune of education in the state and particularly the technical colleges that have been left unattended to for our youths to be able to make use of their hands and brains, urging other sons and daughters with philanthropic spirit and have been blessed by God to emulate the good development as currently being experienced in the state.