UMUAHIA – Following uncertainties that have enveloped Nigeria as a country, Nigerians have been enjoined to remain steadfast in prayers, as it is only God that can save the country from collapsing. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Provincial President, Catholic Laity Council of Nigeria, CLCN, Owerri Ecclesiastical Province, Mr. Dominic Okoro made the call during the opening ceremony of 2019 provincial laity council meeting at Bishop Anthony Nwedo Pastorial Centre in Mater Dei Catholic Cathedral, Umuahia, Abia State at the weekend. His words, “It is no longer news that all is not well with our country, Nigeria. It is a country which is regarded by the world as poverty capital; a country where security of lives and property are not of importance to the government. “A country where those who are empowered with our resources to protect us turn around and use the equipments against us and where herdsmen can kill, rape and maim innocent people including ministers of God and still walk safe in our streets and roads”. Okoro assured Nigerians of hope of a better country, if they should look unto God for divine intervention and help. On the provincial seminar theme “The Laity and the growth of Owerri Ecclesiastical Province”, the Provincial President stated that it is a kind of self appraisal of what the Laity in Owerri Province has been able to achieve since the creation of the province in 1994. In his welcome address, the President, Umuahia Diocesan Laity Council, Okafor Emmanuel described the seminar theme as timely, pointing out that, “It is more of a stock taking that will help in self evaluation and decision on steps to take for more progress of the laity. He revealed that lack of fund remains a major setback for Umuahia Diocesan Laity Council, adding, “This situation makes it very difficult for the diocesan laity council to offset her huge debt at the National Laity Council of Nigeria”. Interacting with newsmen, the president Laity Council, St. Theresa’s Catholic parish, Umuahia, Eugene Okonta said the challenges facing Nigeria calls for prayers. He called on the Churches to pray fervently for the leaders, as the power of prayers can make all things new in Nigeria. Earlier, the Catholic Bishop of Umuahia Diocese, Most Rev. Lucius Iwejuru Ugorji celebrated a mass with the Laity at Mater Dei cathedral, which ushered in the 2019 Provincial Laity Council Seminar.