ABUJA – Over N2 billion is repatriated to Nigeria by multi-national shipping companies in a quarter of a year, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, Vice President has said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Vice President gave the hint at the One-day Sub-Regional summit on unfair shipping surcharges and high local shipping charges at the Port of West and Central Africa Sub-Region held in Abuja yesterday. The summit, with the theme: ‘Impact of Unfair shipping surcharges and High Local Shipping Charges on National Economies of West and Central African States’, was organised by the Nigerian Shipper’s Council in collaboration with the Union of African Shippers. He said the information contained in surcharges of data from the Nigerian Shipper’s Council is a confirmation for reasonableness of demurrage charges which the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), revealed. According to the Vice President, the process of introduction of these surcharges lack transparency, and are not based on verifiable and available statistics. He said the unilateral and arbitrary imposition of such surcharges on the West and Central African bound cargo contradicts the norms and ethics of maritime transport. According to him, the West Central African states are currently facing harsh socio-economic conditions that have impacted negatively on trade. He said the overarching objective of the summit, therefore is for the sub-region to adopt a common position on how to reduce the incidences of unfair surcharges and related issues. Earlier, Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transport said the Federal Government of Nigeria through the NSC has been using its influence in the Global Shippers’ Forum (GSF) has been using its influence in the GSF to resolve cases affecting Nigeria’s trading interest. He said their actions have often check mate claims terrorism, piracy, armed attacks on ships or other negative events in the Gulf of Guinea to increase charges and introduce new surcharges on shipment to Nigeria. He called on the West and Central African countries represented by the UASC to come together and adopt common political, diplomatic and operational strategies to checkmate the activities of shipping lines servicing the ports in the sub-region. Also, Hassan Bello, the Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer of the NSC, urged the UASC mist collaborate to remove unfriendly policies or circumstances than provide the opportunities for arbitrary increases of surcharges and local shipping charges. “Some of the identified surcharges have been prevalent in the sub-region under the various nomenclatures such as the Peak Season Surcharge and War Risk Surcharge to mention a few,” he said.