MAKKAH – The management of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has denied responsibility for the inability of 487 pilgrims from Kano State to be airlifted to Saudi Arabia for the 2019 Hajj exercise. The commission, while speaking through its national commissioner in charge of operations, Abdullahi Saleh,  said its objection to a condition of a one-way service by one of the NAHCON approved airlines, Flynas, was to ensure that the pilgrims were not brought to Saudi and abandoned after Hajj. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Recall that the affected intending pilgrims reportedly staged a protest at the Aminu Kano International Airport to demand explanation on why they were abandoned, having fully paid for the journey to the holy land. They were said to have paid for the Hajj through various private tour operators and Skypower airline was allegedly officially designated by NAHCON to airlift them. Documents seen by Sunday INDEPENDENT, also confirmed a last minute deal allegedly brokered by the embattled Nigerian airline with Saudi Arabia based airliner, Flynas. The documents further showed monetary transactions between the two airlines in respect of part payments to support the deal. Under the agreement, Flynas agreed to airlift the 487 pilgrims, but on the condition that NAHCON writes a ‘no objection letter’ to the contractual agreement of a one-way service between them. But, addressing newsmen in a desert on the midnight of Friday, Saleh said: “NAHCON has not left anybody behind. I want to repeat, we have not left anybody behind. There are two classes of pilgrims, those who are coming through their States Pilgrims Welfare Boards, and those who are coming through tour operators, that is, registered travel agents. “But, as far as the ones through States Pilgrims Welfare Boards are concerned, I can assure you that we have 44,455 pilgrims who were registered and have all been airlifted to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,” he said. Asked to respond to the allegation that NAHCON declined a request for a no-objection letter as condition for Flynas (one of the three approved airlines by NAHCON), to agree to airlift the stranded pilgrims to Saudi, the NAHCON official said he personally objected to the said condition, which stipulated a one-way service by the airline with no commitment of a return flight. “When they approached the representative of Flynas, they told him they had approximately about 400 Pilgrims that were stranded in Kano. They were to be airlifted by two carriers. They mentioned the names of Medview and Skypower Express. “But, we are not aware of Skypower officially operating, but the Flynas representative who was approached told me that the people wanted his service for a one way airlifting to Saudi Arabia, could he lift them into Saudi Arabia? “I was the one who told him that no, I will advise you not take them for only one way. Because if you take them on one way, and you do not make the second leg of the journey, it means you’re telling us that you’re going to abandon them, and of course you know, it’s not proper,” he added. “But if you’re going to take them to Saudi Arabia and then bring them back to Nigeria, fair enough, then there will be no objection. “Then he said okay, and that he was going to approach their headquarters in Saudi Arabia and tell them about the 400 stranded pilgrims in Nigeria, and NAHCON has written us to say that if we are bringing them to Saudi Arabia, we should also be ready to bring them back to Nigeria. “But, he was told by the headquarters that since they had exceeded the limit and the airspace had been closed, we cannot bring you an aircraft, this discussion took place between a principal and an agent. “He now got back to me saying that if NAHCON could add to what he had said to Flynas, maybe they would be able to send an aircraft as the people here are desperate. And I said okay, if that is the case, no problem, we can talk to them, but you must make sure that when you take them to Saudi Arabia, you will bring them back. I even wrote a letter to Flynas, and sent it to them. “But, NAHCON is also urging Flynas to please try to assist those people that are in Nigeria. The agents started wrongly, they didn’t contact the primary airlines within the period of grace they needed to but nevertheless, if you help transport them to Saudi Arabia, NAHCON will be very happy. “But, we told him not to deal with travel agencies that are operating clandestinely, we even sent him a list of those travel agencies that we approved for the operations,” he added.