Uganda has launched its largest trial of a new experimental Ebola
vaccine, as rising cases of the deadly virus in neighbouring
Democratic Republic of Congo continue to raise fears of a wider
regional outbreak, according to Thenewhumanitarian.org reports. A successful trial would boost the case for the vaccine – manufactured
by Belgium-based Janssen Pharmaceutica – to be used in Congo, where
1,888 people have been killed and 2,816 infected in the second
deadliest Ebola epidemic on record. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network An unlicensed experimental vaccine produced by American pharmaceutical
company Merck has so far inoculated more than 180,000 people in Congo,
but there are concerns stocks may dwindle as the epidemic enters its
second year and cases rise in the main eastern city of Goma. Experts believe the Janssen vaccine will provide better immunity and
could protect people against several different strains of Ebola, but
there has been resistance to its use in Congo due to fears its
two-stage inoculation regime could sow confusion. The two-year trial in Uganda will target around 800 frontline health
workers in the western district of Mbarara as well as non-medical
personnel, including cleaners, mortuary attendants, and burial teams. The vaccine has already been tested on more than 6,000 people in
Europe, the United States, and Africa, and has proved safe, though
demonstration of its efficacy in humans is still lacking as it has not
been used in the context of an outbreak. “This is welcome news. The world needs an Ebola vaccine, especially
one that can give a strong and longer-lasting immunity,” Pontiano
Kaleebu, a Ugandan researcher leading the trial, told The New
Humanitarian. “Previous studies with this vaccine have been promising,” Kaleebu
said. “We want to get more information and Uganda’s trial will be
important.” The Congo debate
Ebola analysts, including the World Health Organisation’s Strategic
Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE), have repeatedly called for the
Janssen vaccine to be introduced in Congo to maximize the number of
people protected from the virus. “In the DRC, WHO supports the introduction of a second vaccine, in
line with recommendations from the SAGE, but subject to the
appropriate national approvals,” said Christian Lindmeier, a WHO
spokesperson. Efforts to introduce the Janssen vaccine had been opposed by Congo’s
minister of health, Oly Ilunga, who argued it could cause confusion in
communities due to different vaccination schedules. The Janssen
vaccine requires two doses 56 days apart – unlike the Merck vaccine,
which only requires a one-off dose. But Ilunga resigned from his post last month and has since been
replaced by Jean-Jacques Muyembe – director of Congo’s National
Institute of Biomedical Research – who is thought to be more receptive
to the Janssen vaccine. “Vaccination is one tool we have to control this outbreak, but it
cannot be the only tool.” “There was a blockage before with the former minister of health but
the door [to introduce a second vaccine] is no longer closed,” said
Claude Mahoudeau, emergency coordinator for Ebola for the Alliance for
International Medical Action, or ALIMA, one of the main health NGOs
involved in the response to the outbreak in Congo. Insecurity and distrust of responders have hampered Ebola relief
efforts in Congo despite the effectiveness of the Merck vaccine.
Health workers say inoculating more people will only help end the
outbreak if there is greater trust and engagement of local
communities. “Vaccination is one tool we have to control this outbreak, but it
cannot be the only tool,” said Kate White, emergency medical manager
for Médecins Sans Frontières. “The other tools are just as important:
community participation in the response… making sure they are on board
and understand [what responders are doing].” Uganda has been on high alert following the death of three members of
the same family, including a five-year-old boy, who crossed from DRC
into the western district of Kasese in June. The country has had to
deal with several past Ebola outbreaks, including one in the northern
town of Gulu that cost 224 lives between 2000 and 2001 – the third
deadliest epidemic on record.