LOKOJA – Graduates of Nigeria-Korean Friendship Institute of Vocational and Advanced Technology, Lokoja, Kogi State, has been assured of unhindered access to employment with Korean companies operating in Nigeria and the Republic of South Africa.
The Korean Ambassador to Nigeria Mr. Lee In-Tae gave the assurance Tuesday in Lokoja when he paid an official visit to the Nigeria Korean Friendship Institute (NKFI) to acquaint himself with the progress and development of the institute in the delivery of its core mandate of advancing technological growth of the state.
The Ambassador who was particularly happy with the lecturers and students in the quality of teaching and learning noted that his government has given directives to Korean companies operating in Nigeria and South Africa to allow the students to do their Students Industry Works Experience Scheme (SIWES).
He added that the companies had also been mandated to offer free accommodation, transport and feeding to the interns while ensuring that the students on their graduation, if they so wish to be employed by the companies.
The envoy who inspected Automobile, Electrical and Electronic, welding and ICT facilities said efforts were in top gears to upgrade the systems and equipment to conform to international standards.
He disclosed that all was set to upgrade the installed systems and equipment which, he said, had become analogue stressing that the upgrade became necessary to meet up with international best practices in the ever changing world of technology.
He said the Korean government holds the institute to her chest and promised to do everything within her powers to making it the best technology institute in Nigeria, Africa and indeed the entire world.
He said to this end four professors from his country led by Professor Lee who is the brainchild of the institute in Kogi State had been deployed to the institution for a one week to assess the needs and requirements of the school,
He promised to revamp the training the trainer scheme in Korea which hitherto had been training administrators, instructors and lecturers of the institute which was stopped in 2014.
He said that the four professors were in the state to impart modern trends in technical and vocational training.
The state Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mrs. Rosemary Osikoya, commended the Ambassador for the visit and his effort to reposition the institute hinting that the institute was set to revolutionise technology in the state.
She disclosed that with the support of Governor Yahaya Bello, the National Board For Technical Education visited the iron resources inspection and have granted full accreditation to the institution thereby making it a full fledged tertiary institution in the country.