Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie This topic may sound a bit strange. What has youth empowerment to do with prayer? How many young men and women are willing and ready to pray? If prayer is a channel to youth empowerment what about the numerous poor prayer warriors in our society today? Can one ever give out what he does not have? What is the relationship between prayer and youth empowerment? How can we empower the youths through prayer? Above all, what is the best way to pray and what are the principles of true prayer? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network There is a popular adage that says, “A prayerful child is a powerful child whereas a prayer-less child is a powerless child.” Children and even young men and women are empowered through prayer. Prayer is indeed the most powerful force on earth. It is often said that God rules the world but prayer controls God. Prayer makes the impossible possible. It is the only channel through which we can communicate with God Almighty. Prayer is a channel of transformation. Early this year the Holy Father, Pope Francis, describes prayer as the only force that can change reality. “Prayer always change reality, let us not forget that: It either changes things or changes our hearts, but it always changes.” For the Holy Father, therefore, prayer has the power to change lives and heart. Prayer, the Holy Father declares, is powerful. It can heal, it can give, and it can change lives. “It is a mission of compassion for the world… a prayerful itinerary that transforms people’s lives”. With prayer a nobody can be transformed into a somebody; a poor man can be transformed into a wealthy man. Even an ugly situation can be transformed into a favourable situation. Young people need to be connected through prayer. A tree cannot make a forest. Unfortunately, most of our youths are looking for connections in the wrong place and the wrong directions. They even go to the wrong people for connection. They forget that prayer is the greatest and the wireless connection anyone can have. Prayer connects the creature with their Creator. It connects the needy with their Provider. It even connects the earth with heavenly beings. Prayer is the master key that unlocks every treasure. It is the only key to success. You cannot succeed without prayer, neither can you excel without prayer. Clement Stone describes prayer as man’s greatest power. Prayer is not just man’s greatest power; it is also man’s greatest weapon. A prayer-less man is like a fenceless house. Prayer is the channel of divine favour. In the gospel of Mark 11:24 our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “Therefore I say to you, whatever things you ask when you pray, believe that you receive them, and you will have them.” This is a divine promise! An assurance from above! With prayers all things are possible! Prayer Is The Only Way Out! There are so many ways to kill a rat but when it comes to human existence and problem, prayer remains the only way out. You must have heard a lot about prayer. Am sure you have been praying. You might even be among the powerful prayer warriors in town. But permit me to share something very important and very peculiar about prayer. To start with, you must be wondering why most people complain that their prayers are not answered? Apart from prayer is there any other solution or short cut to solution to people’s problem? Am here to prove to you that prayer is the only way out. It is the solution to all our problems and the answer to our questions. In the gospel of John 15:5 our Lord Jesus Christ told his followers, “Apart from me you can do nothing.” I doubt, if one can ever succeed without prayer; because prayer is the only key that unlocks every closed door. It is the only channel through which we can communicate with God Almighty. There is no other means through which we can receive favour from God except through prayer. Human beings are suffering unnecessarily because they have refused to pray. As St. James rightly declares, “You do not have because you do not ask. 3 You ask and do not receive, because you ask amiss, that you may spend it on your pleasures.” (James 4:2-3). This explains why most people are living in ardent poverty. It is also the major reason why people are suffering from one ailment to another. Most people are so lazy when it comes to prayer. They are ready to spend their last penny in the hospital but when it comes to prayer, they are not just reluctant but full of doubt. In the second book of Chronicles 7:14 God declares, “If My people who are called by My name will humble themselves, pray and seek My face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin and heal their land.” St. James also declares, “Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing psalms” (James 5:13). With this, it is obvious; therefore, that prayer is the only solution to human suffering. It is the only means through which our land, our families and even our nation will be healed and liberated. Most people thought they have been praying but in the gospel of John 16:24 our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “Until now you have asked nothing in My name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.” What most people call prayer is not prayer. The day you will start praying in the right way and in the right direction, you will start receiving. And when you start receiving your life will never be the same, you shall experience fullness of joy. In today’s gospel from Luke 11:1-13 one of the disciples said to Jesus, “Lord, teach us to pray…” He said to them, “When you pray, say: Our Father in heaven, Hallowed be Your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done On earth as it is in heaven. 3 Give us day by day our daily bread. 4 And forgive us our sins, For we also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And do not lead us into temptation, But deliver us from the evil one.” This is the famous our Lord’s prayer! Most people are familiar with this prayer. It is the most famous prayer amongst the Christendom. This prayer works with faith. With this prayer, your case is settled. The impossible shall become possible. Every closed doors shall be opened. Things will start turning around for your favour. Just as our Lord Jesus Christ assured his followers, “Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.” In his letter to the Philippians 4:6 St. Paul declares, “Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.” Finally, St. James 5:16 concludes “Pray for one another, that you may be healed. The effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much.” There is nothing prayer cannot do for you. Through prayer you will receive much from God. You will receive your healing, your deliverance and your restoration. Above all, through prayer our young men and women will be gainfully empowered.