General Yakubu Gowon, former Head of State, has described Osun State as a role model to other states in the country in terms of peaceful coexistence among the people irrespective of their religious differences. Gen. Gowon, who arrived the state on Saturday, had led a prayer for the country through his movement, Nigeria Prays, with a view to achieving a peaceful, secure and more united Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He described as amazing the way and manner he found the good people of Osun living together in peace and harmony and playing their roles well with prayer and unity for the good of the state, the country and mankind. Specifically, he said he was delighted that the governor, who is a Muslim, agreed to host him during the Muslim festive period, a gesture he noted others would have politely turned down on the ground that it was a Sallah period. Expressing satisfaction with the level of understanding and tolerance for one another in the state despite differences in religious beliefs, Gowon maintained that other states and even Nigeria as a country must imbibe such attributes. He said that among the states in the South West that he and his Nigeria Prays Movement team had been to, Osun State stood out in all ramifications, confessing an increase in his love for Osun. He appreciated God for blessing the state with the governor who believes in the efficacy of prayer. He maintained that Nigerians need to develop a sense of unity, love and respect for one another, adding that his greatest wish is for Nigeria to continue to dwell in unity and peace. He thanked the governor for the warm reception given to him and prayed God to support him in his determination to take the state to greater heights. He said, “I am delighted to tell everyone that Osun is a role model state for other states in the country, because it has attributes that must be adopted by all to have peaceful co-existence. “All the religious bodies – Christianity, Islam and Traditional religion are clearly playing out their roles here as prayer warriors for the good of the state, for the good of Nigeria, and for the good of mankind.