Onwubuya Michael Chief Onanefe Ibori, a former Governor of Delta State from 1999 to 2007, a leader of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and an influential national figure in Nigeria is a year older on August 4, 2019. The Urhobo Chief popularly known a Ogidigbogbo is a humanitarian per excellence and an eminently successfully politician by any standard in the world. Till date he is a dedicated servant of the people and humanity. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Due to his wonderful accomplishments while he was Governor, it is not surprising that he is a household name in every village and hamlet in the Delta State and Niger Delta; it is understandable. He is self effacing and stunningly humble. When the military government lifted ban on the political campaigns in the late 1990s as the first in the restoration of democratic practice, Ibori practically financed his campaign in GDM and later in the PDP. Ibori’s large heartedness is remarkable. There are some people he came to their rescue at the most critical point, only for them, on running into sudden wealth, to stab him in the back or turn against him. He displays uncommon grace anytime he has cause to speak about them even in their absence, accepting their conduct with philosophical equanimity and Christian charity. Some elements consider this attribute a mark of naivety or a sign of weakness. But it is actually Ibori’s strength. He does not want to be held hostage by either the past or negative emotions. Far from showing discomfort at the incessant requests  of people from all works of life he treats the people with incredible courtesy. A complete believer in the teaching on dignity of the human race, he believes that each person is created in the image and likeness of God, no matter his or her station in life. There are so many reasons Ibori will continue to have die hard followers, one reason is his simplicity and humility  despite attaining power and riches. I have so many reasons, too numerous to mention to be a die hard follower of the former Governor. One was when he called me to slightly change an earlier appointment because he was running late. Very few people in his calibre will do that. Another reason was when I missed his call seven times for a briefing to change appointment, he still gave me another chance and instructed his driver and orderly to pick me up from his office to the place where he was holding meeting. I remember a telephone conversation with him while he was in London. I had told him that Mrs. Ubeku extended her greeting and needed some financial help, he told me not to worry that he will endearvour to send people to her. This is a man who was still considering others despite his own challenges. This is endless. As you mark your birth date on earth, which has been dedicated to serving God through humanity, I say Ad multus annos. Michael wrote in from Warri Delta State