ABUJA – About sixty engineers from the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) have departed Nigeria for China to acquire training in the manufacturing of transformers. A statement by NASENI’s Deputy Director, Information, Mr Olusegun Ayeoyenikan, explained that it is expected that at the end of the training in China, the engineers would establish “a fully indigenous Transformer Plant to be operated and managed by Nigerians with local content as a priority.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ayeoyenikan said the Transformer Manufacturing Plant and Testing Laboratory are to be located at the Power Equipment and Electrical Machinery Development Institute (PEEMADI), Okene, Kogi State. The Executive Vice Chairman/CE of NASENI, Professor Mohammed Sani Haruna while addressing the trainees before departure expressed fulfilment that a new phase in the journey toward having Nigeria’s Transformer manufacturing plant and High Voltage Testing Laboratory had opened with the China-bound engineers from NASENI. He expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr.Ogbonnaya Onu for the confidence reposed in NASENI and its management to facilitate the project. He also expressed his gratitude to the Chinese Great Wall Industry Corporation (CGWIC) which is the major partner in the implementation of the project. The Engineers, on completion of the training, are expected to deploy the different skills acquired in China along manufacturing line of transformer plant and High-Voltage Testing Lab, including the production of components and spare parts, bolts and nuts, machines and other equipment used globally to drive the power sector. According to Professor Haruna, “This particular exercise is different from the normal overseas training as it is targeted at not only obtaining capacities but actually to set up a plant which will produce components, spare parts, utilise local materials and also achieve domestication of the technology behind manufacturing of transformers and also the High-Voltage Testing Laboratory”. Currently, the production of transformers in the country is through the assembling of parts, therefore they lack local contents. He added, “the practice is for importers to bring components and transformer parts from other countries for assembling in Nigeria”. Professor Haruna said this mode of supply of Transformers to the market could not develop local content nor achieve an indigenous mass of experts for the country. According to him, this practice has encouraged the absence of national standards for transformers which circulate at the local market. He said the establishment of Nigeria’s own indigenous Transformers Manufacturing plant would remove such anomalies. In 2013, NASENI, through the Federal Government signed an agreement with the Chinese Greatwall Industry Corporation (CGWIC), but the agreement could not be implemented until recently when the project received fresh boost and support coming from President Muhammadu Buhari and Dr.Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology. The Chief Executive of NASENI disclosed that the first set of trainees amongst the 60 engineers will return to Nigeria after completion of the training exercise in the next four months.