D’Tigers Head Coach, Alex Nwora, says winning the Peak Invitational could not have come at a better time for the team, saying ending their preparation for the World Cup with the victory was very important for the team’s confidence. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network D’Tigers beat Poland 87-84 and Montenegro 89-86 to win its first ever Peak Invitational title in Yangzhou which heralds the FIBA Men’s World Cup on Saturday, 31st of August. Nwora said, “Getting the win against Montenegro who on paper are way above Nigeria is a good step in the right direction. It shows that weeks of training have continued to yield the desired results for us as a team.” The coach who will be making his World Cup debut alongside all the players in camp believed that the team has continued to improve which may have caught the attention of their group B opponents. During the pre-World Cup preparation, Nigeria (ranked 33) have beaten – Dominican Republic (twice) ranked 18 and Canada (No. 23). Meanwhile, Shooting Guard, Vincent Nnamdi, says the players were not under pressure but the coaching World Cup as Nigerians wait with bated breath. With the competition becoming so stiff amongst the players in camp, the shooting guard said that the pressure was on the coaching crew rather than the players. “I don’t think there is any pressure. I think the biggest pressure is on the coaching crew to take that decision. We have a lot of great talent, great athletes here so it will be a tough decision for them to make.” On the team’s chances in China, Vincent expressed confidence that the team can go all out to win the World Cup. “I think we can go as far as going to win the championship. We have lot of talents, skill, size and I think we are very capable of doing it.” He lauded the NBBF for the grade A friendlies which have in no small way contributed to their level of preparation. Nnamdi explained that playing against fellow World Cup bound teams (Dominican Republic, Canada, Iran, Poland and Montenegro) has really helped their confidence. “The first three games, we were still getting the team together. It’s good the way we performed and it’s good to always get the win. We definitely have a lot of confidence.” “We have a lot of confidence. We are a confident group and we definitely looking forward to be in China”, Vincent said.