ABUJA – The just concluded screening and confirmation of the ministerial nominees sent to the Senate by President Muhammadu Buhari has not only generated controversy, but, according to political analysts, has eroded the tradition, culture and the goal screening is set to achieve. Buhari had on Monday, July 22nd, 2019, sent 43 nominees to the Senate for screening, which was announced by President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan the following day during plenary session, but the screening of the nominees eventually started on Wednesday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The screening, which was carried out for five days, started on Wednesday, July 24 and ended on Tuesday, July 30, with exception of Saturday and Sunday. Out of the 43 nominees, 22 were asked to ‘take a bow and go’, without any serious questioning from the Senators, while 21 others were grilled by the lawmakers. Nominees who enjoyed the privilege of ‘bow and go’ were either, former lawmakers, persons believed to have been outstanding in their previous or present endeavor and some former governors. Also in the category of bow and go were the seven female nominees. Justifying the privilege given to the “bow and go” nominees, the President of the Senate had reminded his colleagues about the convention and policy of granting automatic confirmation to nominees, who were former lawmakers. Lawan had told his colleagues that “we have agreed on a policy on how we go about the screening, I just want to reiterate that policy and to say that we will extend the privilege to members of the legislature even at states level.” The President of the Senate had also insisted that nothing is wrong in granting automatic confirmation to former state lawmakers even if the Senate Rule did not allow it, emphasising that the policy and convention of granting automatic confirmation to nominees with legislative backgrounds at State level is valid. The protest against the screening method introduced in the 9th Senate, actually started by the senators, who pointed out that it is against their tradition and Rule book to accord the privilege of bow and go to nominees, who are not former federal lawmakers. Protesting against the privilege accorded some of the nominees, who are not of the stock of federal lawmakers, the former governor of Gombe state, Senator Danjuma Goje, had raised Order 3(2), pointing out that the provisions of Senate Rule does not recognise House of Assembly members, but only applicable to the federal lawmakers. He said that the rule never recognised those who had served in State Houses of Assembly as part of people to be given automatic confirmation. Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, had also drew the attention of his colleagues to Order 15 and 43, pointing that the media was awashed with reports that former lawmakers were given the privilege of taking a bow and go. But, Lawan, however, explained that the upper chamber has a tradition of telling former lawmakers to take a bow, adding, “we are not covering up anybody. A standard has been set. We will put it in our standing order.” Aside the senators, some concerned Nigerians and political analysts have described the screening exercise as jamboree, pointing out that Nigerians would have been allowed to know the capacity and capability of those coming to man the ministries and help the president in the discharge of his responsibility. It was, however, gathered that there is high-wired politics associated with the “bow and go” method applied by the 9th Senate. Lawan, had on several occasions emphasised why the National Assembly should work hand in hand with the executive to achieve ‘next level’ development. Some political analysts have pointed that the statement is not unconnected to the pressure from the executive. A source had hinted that there would have been crisis of interest over the screening of some the nominees, which some political watchers described as “unfit” because of alleged cases of corruption hanging on their necks at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Because of this, Lawan, it was gathered had to prepare himself for any eventuality, hence the method of “bow and go”, which even non-federal legislative members enjoyed at the detriment of the Senate rule. Sampling opinion of some Nigerians, who watched the screening, they said they were amazed to see an arm of government behaving as if it were an extension of the executive. They were also saying that the way Lawan presided over the plenary, it would not be far from what some concerned Nigerians have voiced out that the 9th National Assembly would be a rubber stamp. Although, Lawan may have escaped the intrigues and the crisis that would have brew in the course of the screening of the ministerial nominees, but the petition of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) indigenes, which protested their exclusion from the ministerial list, is another bone Lawan and the Senate have to chew. There is no doubt that Lawan as President of the 9th Senate would face pressure in the days to come. Pointer to this development is not only the exclusion of the FCT indigenes from the list, but also the appointment of the chairmen and vice chairmen of Senate standing committees, which was announced last Tuesday by the President of the Senate. Aggrieved members, especially of the stock of All Progressives Congress (APC) would find a way of causing trouble for Lawan, unless they are appeased. Even the exclusion of the FCT may likely cause trouble in the days to, as the National Assembly would be the first place of call, which may pitched the lawmakers against the executive. Before the screening of the nominees started, Senators Philip Aduda, who represented the indigenes and Dino Melaye, the former Committee Chairman on FCT had protested the exclusion of the indigenes from the list sent to the Senate by President Buhari. Specifically, the senators had raised constitutional points of order to buttress their position that the FCT should be treated as state that is qualified for the appointment of a minister. Standing on order 43 of the Senate Rule and Section 299 of the Constitution, Aduda had questioned the validity of the Federal Character if the FCT is not qualified for ministerial appointment. He had noted that there is no nominee from the FCT indigenes even when the Constitution expressly said that the FCT should be treated as a state. According to Section 299, “the provision of this constitution shall apply to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja as if it were one of the states of the federation.” Lamenting the marginalisation of the FCT, Aduda, who is the Senator representing the indigenes, had urged the President of the Senate, who presided over the plenary, to talk to President Buhari to note the observation and do something urgently. Also calling the attention of his colleagues to Section 299 of the Constitution, Senator Melaye had said that the FCT issue is not a matter of appeal, but a constitutional matter. Melaye added that based on the Constitution, the matter is very clear. Responding, the President of the Senate said that the point of order raised by the two senators was noted. The indigenes have, however, formerly presented a petition to the Senate, over their exclusion from the ministerial list. The petition, which was presented to the Senate by Senator Aduda, was, however, referred to the Senate Committee on Ethic and Privileges when it was constituted. The petition signed by Ezekiel Dalhatu Musa, Leader, Coalition of FCT indigenous Associations, was titled, “a petition on gross violation and utter disregard for the Constitution in appointment of federal ministries by President Muhammadu Buhari,” It reads in part: “We have fallen once again as a nation and once again join the league of totalitarian states with the inactions of Mr. President, Muhammadu Buhari. “Recall that the non-inclusion of an FCT native in the ministerial appointments since our current democratic dispensation has been a matter of national discourse with some citing constitutional lacuna as the factor responsible for the non-appointment of an FCT native as Minister into the Federal Executive Council while we as natives have never enjoined such school of thought as the barrier hindering our political inclusion and democratization of the FCT. “Our advocacy on the inclusion of an FCT native has been a loud agitation and we write to inform the exhorted National Assembly as the people’s assembly to wade into our ceaseless calls to Mr. President to appoint one of our own into the highest decision-making council in this country. “Even though our belief holds that the President could appoint any of us as a minister into his cabinet requires just political will and demonstration of equity and fairness to the Abuja Original Inhabitants, we have gone legally and lawfully to garner more constitutional backing by challenging the perceived lacuna and a Court of Appeal which is of competent jurisdiction to hear this matter. It granted judgment mandating the President to as a matter of justice appoint an FCT native immediately into his cabinet since 15th January, 2018 while the President has been served this Judgment by the Court of Appeal since 22nd March, 2018 but yet the President has not complied with the judgment. “We are once more seeking your intervention and the intervention of the highly revered Senate of the FRN to come to our aid because we are perceiving hatred against us from the President who is supposed to be a father to all. “A prompt appointment of an FCT native into the Federal Executive Council as Minister will not tear nor underdeveloped this country but will rather enrich and strengthen our democratic belief as a nation.”