LAGOS – Armese Power Solutions has aligned with the Federal Government’s efforts to end estimated billing as it commences massive meter deployment following the recent flag-off of the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme by the Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company (PHEDC) in Rivers. Imran Aslam Khokhar, the CEO of the company, in a statement yesterday emphasised the adequacy of the company’s current stock of meters to plug 50 per cent of the metering gap at this stage of the MAP project within the PHED franchise area. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Armese had earlier pledged its capacity to help all MAPs, newly engaged by the 11 distribution companies (DisCos), meet the local content requirements of the MAP regulation, leveraging its Akwa Ibom-based meter manufacturing facility with an annualised installed capacity of 3 million meters on a multi-shift pattern. At the conclusion of a competitive bid process for meter asset supply within the PHED jurisdiction, Armese emerged the preferred bidder alongside Holley Metering, and has already commenced rollout across designated coverage areas in Rivers, Bayelsa, Cross River and Akwa Ibom. He said: “Our valued customers have been contacting us for meters following the official rollout announcement by PHED. As usual, we are poised to address their requirements with our premium metering products and crack team of installers. However, customers are required to file their meter applications with PHED and make payments into dedicated accounts that have been publicized. PHED will in turn share their details with us for installation within 10 working days.” He reinforced Armese’s year-long track record of meter deployment in the PHED coverage area which caters to the power requirements of an estimated 14 million people. He said: “Our track record in the business is not in doubt. In the past one year, we have deployed over 100,000 meters within the PHED franchise. We are poised to deploy the metering solutions we are renowned for yet again with MAP. Keeping the lights on is what we do and ending estimated billing is our ultimate objective.”