Lebanon’s cabinet met on Saturday for the first time since a deadly
shooting that sparked a power struggle between Hezbollah allies and
Druze leader Walid Jumblatt, a veteran politician who managed to
impose his will five weeks after the incident, according to
Thenational.ae rpeorts. After two aides of junior Druze minister Saleh Al Gharib were killed
in a shoot-out on June 30 in a pro-Jumblatt village, Qabr Shmoun, the
dispute focused on how the killers should be tried. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mr Al Gharib’s Lebanese Democratic Party (LDP), an ally of Hezbollah,
one of the strongest regional backers of the Syrian regime, wanted the
trial to go before a court specialised in state crimes, which could
have paved the way for the prosecution of its rival, Mr Jumblatt. Mr Jumblatt, one of the most vocal critics of Damascus, wanted the
shooting incident to be handled by the regular judiciary. The LDP finally backed down and the Druze leaders reconciled on
Friday, allowing Prime Minister Saad Hariri to convene the cabinet
without fearing an escalation of tensions. The investigation is now in
the hands of the military court. Mr Hariri said that the government
was committed to sticking with the 2019 budget, which was passed last
month after weeks of negotiations. As is often the case with Lebanese politics, the inter-Druze dispute
involved their respective international backers. Hezbollah’s support
for the LDP is a clear sign that its allies in Damascus are using Mr
Jumblatt’s Druze rivals to “eliminate” him, said Sami Nader, director
of the Levant Institute for Strategic Affairs in Lebanon. Syria could
achieve several goals by sidelining Mr Jumblatt, including punishing
him for his criticisms or increasing its control on the small Druze
community that stretches between Syria and Lebanon. On Wednesday, the US embassy in Beirut took the unprecedented step of
publicly criticising politicians who were exploiting the Qabr Shmoun
shoot-out for political gain, accusing them of “inflaming tensions” in
a Twitter post. While the embassy did not name anyone, the tweet was seen as a clear
jab at President Michel Aoun’s entourage including his son-in-law,
Foreign Minister Gebran Bassil, who is accused of reopening old wounds
between the Druze and the Christians. The American intervention was
significant because the US plays an important role in backing Lebanese
institutions, particularly the army, which has received more than
$2.29 billion from America since 2005. “Syria’s attempts to tilt the balance of power in Lebanon in their
favour was unacceptable for the US,” said Mr Nader. Neither Mr Bassil
nor Mr Aoun reacted officially to the tweet, but Mr Bassil was the
only minister to not turn up at Saturday’s cabinet meeting. Mr Jumblatt may have dodged a bullet but remains vulnerable to future
attempts to destabilise him, said Mr Nader. “His opponents may try to
attack him again and attempt a full-out confrontation by provoking
another incident.” Another factor that pushed politicians to resolve the issue is the
economic crisis threatening Lebanon, one of the most indebted
countries in the world. Moody’s downgraded Lebanon’s rating in
January, and should this happen again on August 26, when Standard &
Poor’s is expected to re-evaluate its classification, local banks
would have to recapitalise. This could cause serious difficulties
considering the shortage of liquidity in the market, Mr Nader said. Echoing a general feeling of exasperation among the Lebanese about
recurring political stalemates, MP Nicolas Nahas, who once worked as
director of Mr Jumblatt’s cement factory, told a local radio station
on Saturday that “we have now returned to point zero. We have to begin
thinking about the 2020 budget, which is of utmost importance to
implement reforms.” He said the Qabr Shmoun crisis was a waste of time, and warned that
Lebanon was on the “brink of an abyss”.