LAGOS – Abdullahi Babalele, son-in-law to former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has regained
his freedom from the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), where he was remanded by a Federal High Court, Lagos, over alleged money laundering Babalele was reportedly released on Friday after meeting the bail conditions imposed on him by Justice
Nicholas Oweibo. He had pleaded not guilty to a two-count charge of money laundering levelled against him by the anti-graft agency. However, Atiku’s lawyer, Barrister Uyiekpen Giwa-Osagie, a partner in the law firm of Africa Law Practice (ALP) and his brother, Erhunse Gi
wa-Osagie, who were also arraigned by the EFCC on different charge of money laundering, were yet to meet the bail terms imposed on them by the court. The Giwa-Osagie brothers were released to their counsel, after they had pleaded not guilty to three-counts charge of money laundering preferred against them by the EFCC, after the court ruling on their bail applications last Thursday. The EFCC had arraigned Babalele, Atiku’s son-in-law for laundering $140, 000 USD with the aide of one Bashir Mohammed. While Barrister Uyiekpen Giwa-Osagie, a partner in Africa Legal Practice (ALP), alongside his brother, Erhunse Giwa-Osagie, were arraigned for laundering $2 million. The trio were arraigned before the court last Wednesday on two separate charges by the EFCC on money laundering. The offences, according to the prosecution, were contrary to Sections 18(c), 18(a), 1(a), 16(1), (d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 16, 16(2)(b)16(2)(b) of the same Act. They were, however, granted to bail last week Thursday, in the sum of N20 million with one surety each, after their counsel, who includes Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) for Babalele and Mr. Raji Ahmed and Mr. Norrison Quakers, both Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs), for the Osagies, have argued their clients’ bail applications. In the charge against Babalele, the EFCC alleged that Atiku’s son-in-law had on February 20, 2019, procured and aided one Bashir Mohammed to make cash payment of the sum of $140,000 USD, without going through financial institution.