Zadoc Akintoye, Director of  Media and Publicity, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ondo State, in this interview with BOLU-OLU ESHO, spoke on the role of the party in rescuing members of the Ondo State House of Assembly from the clutch of the executive, among other crucial. Excerpts: Looking at the recent happenings at the state House of Assembly, what is your take about the whole scenario? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I think first thing is that we must sound a note of concern for the inconsistencies that we saw at the state House of Assembly in respect to the capacity of the honourable members to discharge the duties that are placed on their shoulders. We saw the inconsistencies of opinion and decision that trailed the allegation of a snake being found in the hallowed chamber of the House and also of the decay in the structure of the building. We saw what transpired when the Executive Governor of the state, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, visited the hallowed chamber of the House, we noted with concern, the submission of the sovereignty of an arm of government to an executive arm. And what we did was to quickly intervene educating the populace on the important role of the state House of assembly within the federalism that we practice. We are glad that prelude to what happened when the governor visited them, the honorable members came together and sat down and said they have the sovereignty of the people on their shoulders and they must defend what is right and came up with contrary opinion to what the governor said. Initially, they had alleged about the decay in the structure of the Assembly which they rescind when the governor visited them. The speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. David Oloyelogun rescind on tape. That was a sort of concern to us as a party, seeing how willingly the House of Assembly submitted the sovereignty or its independence to emotional blackmail of the executive governor. The Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. David Oloyelogun, alleged that nothing had been released to the House in terms of funds meant for renovation of the House despite the fact that they put this in the Appropriation Bill every year. How would you react to this? Then, it becomes the question of who is saying the truth, because for the executive to get the budget in any year passed, it has to go through the legislature. So, if you have a budget for the House of Assembly passed by the House of assembly, which is expected to be executed by the executive arm of government and it is not executed, how then would they have the right to come back for another budget and you pass it? Oleyelogun has been speaker for a couple of years. So, we should ask, what have you been doing day-in day-out if capital project that is meant for the development of the House has not being executed? If funds have not been paid by the executive for the maintenance of the Assembly, then you need to ask from them, say Oga, what of budget performance for last year? Why was it that the budget meant for the House of Assembly was not executed? And so, he must have an explanation. He has no excuses. It is his duty as the speaker of the Assembly to go back to the executive and insist that it must be done. So, that is where the problem is. If you pass budget every year and the budget for the Assembly is not executed, you can imagine a place where you have oversight the budget is not executed. What about for other projects where you do not have oversight? That is an insight to what the budget performance we have been having for the past two and a half years. Virtually everyone who commented on the issue of the Assembly has exonerated the governor in terms of the renovation and the look of the House. The lawmakers have described the complex as an eyesore and having spent two years in office and his impact had not been felt in the House, even when renovation was ongoing at the Governor’s Office and State House, could it be said the governor is actually free from blame? He is not and that is actually the truth of the matter. He is not. Unfortunately, the way our governance process is structured, he that pays the piper dictates the tune. The House cannot appropriate fund for itself, it still has to go to the executive. These are checks in the system that ensure that one arm of government does not grow above the other. They must work together. But, what we have now is that an executive arm of government can afford, through the connivance of the legislature, neglect work on projects that affect the people. This is because you come to the House that is dominated by your party and it would be a party affair. He gives everybody small stipends and they would say he has done well. I think the people should be concerned about this and try to find out if these people are truly representing us adequately or not. What would you say are the issues between the executive and the legislature? Don’t forget that the state government is proposing another loan of N30 billion and a good proportion of that loan is to be used in renovating the Deputy Governor’s Lodge, the Governor’s Lodge and other things like that that are not socially impactful projects. These projects that they want to do again were done just a couple of years back by the Mimiko-led administration. So, we need to begin to ask questions on how is our fund spent? What kind of projects are these people spending money on? If we are now going to take another loan of N30 billion and spend a bulk of it on renovation of Governor’s Lodge. Being the opposition, you are seen as the watchdog of the government on behalf of the people. How would you score Governor Oluwarotimi akeredolu administration? As opposition to this administration, we don’t need to judge it. The people have already judged this administration. This is an administration that is not for the benefit of the people of Ondo State, even while he does projects that seemingly look like they for the benefit of the people. It is a capital-flight administration. When the time comes, we are going to give details of every act of calumny, of wickedness, of misappropriation that this administration has indulged itself in. It is a government that is intoxicated with fund, intoxicated with looting the funds of the people. So, the people should keep asking questions. We, as opposition party, are asking questions. We are going to do more than we have done right now. We are going to bring details and facts as to the acts of criminality being perpetrated by this government. But by and large, wherever they have succeeded, we will commend them because their success is not for any political party but for the people. Likewise, wherever they have failed, which are many, we will definitely put them on the check.