P/Harcourt – In view of the raging tension that followed the alleged demolition of a mosque in Trans-Amadi area of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Felix Obuah, has cautioned those peddling the rumor to desist from it. The state PDP boss, who also joined the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, to visit the site of the alleged demolition of mosque at Rainbow Town, Port Harcourt, condemned those peddling the rumour, describing them as “agents of the devil”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Overwhelmed by the chain of project execution across the state, Obuah urged the governor to keep up the tempo as Rivers people were very happy with him. Obuah, who made the remarks shortly after embarking on projects inspection with Governor Wike on Monday, said the state chief executive would remain dear in the hearts of Rivers people because of his humane disposition towards governance. Describing the projects as unprecedented, Obuah said the quality of the projects would go a long way in enhancing the beauty and standard of living of the people. While lauding the governor for his efforts to revive all critical sectors of the state’s economy, Obuah said Rivers people would remain eternally grateful to Wike as he strives to take the State to another level. He regretted that the state under former Governor Rotimi Amaechi suffered severe “calamity with decayed infrastructure dotting the entire state”, and thanked Governor Wike for rising to the occasion to reverse the trend. The PDP chairman also expressed joy that the party and Rivers people were overwhelmed following Governor Wike’s all-round achievements and style of governance and urged him not to relent or be distracted by those he called fault finders and enemies of progress. “Governor Wike is ruling the state with the fear of God, and that explains why Rivers people are happy and will remain happy with him. “This clearly shows that the choice of the party in 2015 and 2019 was divine,” Obuah declared.