Andrew Oche Odoh, Professional Golfers Association of Nigeria (PGAN) number one and South Africa-based player has said that lifting the association’s 50th anniversary trophy is his target. The tournament is billed for Ibom Hotel and Golf Resort, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State from August 19- 25 and Odoh, who was inducted into the association’s inaugural hall of fame in July believes that lifting the trophy would crown his successes in the game. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Otukpa, Benue State-born star, who is arguably the most decorated PGA of Nigeria player after 41 titles said, “I’m still hungry for more honours. “I’m very fit and prepared for the PGA Nigeria @50 Tournament. I’m hitting the ball very well now, because I want to win. Though, I have won 41 trophies so far in my career, the highest in the PGA of Nigeria, but winning at the 50th anniversary will crown all my efforts and the successes so far in golf,” he said. Odoh, who commended the association for providing the platform for him, however, added that the tournament would boast stronger field for a stronger competition. Not less than 135 regular tour players which include 125 Nigerian professionals and 10 foreign professionals are expected to tee off tee game on August 20, just as free golf lessons for kids and youths of Akwa Ibom State will also hold. On August 19, which is build up to the tournament tee off, a seminar for all participants on Golf Professionalism, Golf & Health and Golf Rules & Ethics will hold. From August 21, Senior Tour players will commence their rounds alongside the regulars as all professional events will end on August 23 and amateur event begins on August 24 – individual event – only invited amateurs and Sponsors as the event is rounds off on August 25. Samson Lawal, the PGAN Director, meanwhile, has charged the participants to observe the rules of the game for a fair and healthy anniversary celebration. “This is a history making anniversary for the PGA of Nigeria; it means we must eschew all forms of rancour that will be inimical to this great occasion. As golfers and professionals all rules must be obeyed and at the end we will have cause to give God the glory,” he said. A statement from the Secretariat in Lagos revealed that the association’s marketing firm, Seventh Sports International Network Limited, has packaged a gala night on the final day which will feature prize presentation to winners in all categories as the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel and three other governors will also be honoured. It would be recalled that the anniversary event commenced in July with other inductees as Patrick Okpomu; Peter Akakasiaka; Tony Uduimo; Lateef Lasisi; Festus Makelemi and Samson Lawal and the unveiling of sponsors in Lagos.