On Sunday, a representative for the singer confirmed the couple were taking a break after less than a year of marriage. In her first post, Cyrus wrote: “Don’t fight evolution, because you will never win. Like the mountain I am standing on top of, which was once under water, connected with Africa, change is inevitable. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The Dolomites were not created over night, it was over millions of years that this magnificent beauty was formed. My dad always told me “Nature never hurries but it is always on time”…. it fills my heart with peace and hope KNOWING that is true. I was taught to respect the planet and its process and I am committed to doing the same with my own..” A second image was captioned “New day. New adventure” while a third read: “Life’s a climb… but the view is great.” Cyrus and Hemsworth starred together in the 2010 romantic drama The Last Song and married in December 2018 after years of on-again, off-again dating. They decided to get married after their home in Malibu, west of Los Angeles, was destroyed in a wildfire in California. A representative for the singer said that both she and Hemsworth, best known for his roles in The Hunger Games series of films, have agreed that a break is best for both of them. “Ever-evolving, changing as partners and individuals, they have decided this is what’s best while they both focus on themselves and careers,” the representative said. “They still remain dedicated parents to all of their animals they share while lovingly taking this time apart. “Please respect their process and privacy.” In an interview with Vanity Fair earlier this year, Cyrus spoke about being pansexual and her relationship with Hemsworth. “The reason that people get married sometimes can be old-fashioned, but I think the reason we got married isn’t old-fashioned – I actually think it’s kind of New Age,” she said. “We’re redefining, to be f***ing frank, what it looks like for someone that’s a queer person like myself to be in a hetero relationship. A big part of my pride and my identity is being a queer person.” Earlier this month, she told Elle magazine that her marriage was “very confusing” to some people, but that her relationship was “unique”. Hemsworth is yet to comment on the break-up. 