ABUJA – The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has warned that any prospective Corps Member that report for registration at any of its Orientation Camps across the country with fake documents would be handed over to the law enforcement agents for prosecution. The Director-General, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim gave this warning while addressing staff of the National Directorate Headquarters that would participate in the Orientation Exercise. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He urged all registration officers to be vigilant and ensure that no unqualified person is registered at the Orientation Camps. Ibrahim added that Management would not take it lightly with any Camp leadership found wanting in the discharge of assigned responsibilities in camp. The NYSC boss also appealed to all Camp Officials to imbibe good work ethics, especially in dealing with Corps Members. While commending some State Secretariats for impressive performances in camp administration during the last Orientation Exercise, General lbrahim reiterated his commitment to the welfare of Staff and Corps Members as outlined in the priorities of his policy thrust. “I urge you to remain diligent in the performance of your assigned duties in order to ensure a hitchfree exercise and support other Camp Officials in the implementation of guidelines issue by the Management so as to achieve the desired outcomes”, the DG added. Earlier, while at a parley with the mediainAbuja, BrigadierGeneralIbrahim, disclosed that since inception, 4, 644,804 Nigerians have participated in the National Youth Service Corps Scheme. He outlined the policy direction of the scheme and its achievements in the last few years. Ibrahim also disclosed that recommendations have been forwarded to the appropriate quarters to consider effective involvement of NYSC among vetting agencies for government appointees. “The issue of whether or not some public office holders who are graduates that have complied with the provisions of the NYSC Act came to the front burner in recent times. In order to avoid controversies in this regard, we have recommended to the appropriate quarters that the Scheme be contacted for the necessary checks regarding the service status of the protective appointees in both public and private sectors,” he said.