LAGOS – In the 1970s, ‘80s and ‘90s saw Nigeria was a hub of athletic destination in Africa even as she was also a threat to other athletic nations from the western world – particularly the Americans and the Caribbean countries. The products of this golden era include the likes of Yusuf Ali; Peter Konyegwachie; Brown Ebewele; Innocent Egbunike; the Osmond brothers; Chidi Imo; Mary Onyiali; Falilat Ogunkoya; Chioma Ajunwa; late Dele Udoh; late Sunday Bada and the list can go on and on. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network They shone like million stars for their dear country, Nigeria and they also got the benefits of representing their fatherland patriotically from the then leaders of the country as streets were named after some of them; there were monitory reward and scholarships as well other benefits. However, their stardom did not come by chance or miracle; there were good structures on ground which served as good platform that catapulted them to enviable height they found themselves in their careers. Schools’ sport which is the foundation of grassroots development was well entrenched in Nigerian public schools. Indeed, there was a regular and effective national sport as the National Sports Festival (NSF) – a biennial event which is now irregular and of no consequence. However, since the last decade of this millennium to date Nigeria’s performance in international competitions has been taking the downward shape as there is serious dearth of athletes to represent the country creditably well save for one or two names – Aruna Quadri and Blessing Okagbare – who have continued to feature on regular basis. But it is axiomatic that these two fellows (Quadri and Okagbare) are beginning to fade off in installments, by age and strength – they cannot remain at their very best in the next five years at the most; hence the new conversation with regards to athletes who will take over from them in no distant time. Incidentally, both athletes have taken Nigeria to the global stage in recent times in the track and field and racket games – table tennis. While Okagbare is holding the track and field record for Nigeria, Quadri holds the ace in table tennis. Okagbare, 31, specialises in long jumping and short sprints. She is an Olympic and World Championships medalist in the long jump and a world medalist in the 200metres. She also holds the Women’s 100 metres Commonwealth Games record for the fastest time at 10.85 seconds. Her 100metres best of 10.79 made her the African record holder for the event until it was eclipsed by Murielle Ahouré in 2016. She is currently African record holder in the 200metres with her run of 22.04 seconds in 2018. She was the African 100m and long jump champion in 2010. She has also won medals at the African Games, IAAF Continental Cup and World Relays and at the Olympics. In retrospect, it is on record that Okagbare born in Sapele, Delta State in Nigeria is a product of school sport; she started with football as a teenager at her high school and later, in 2004, she began to take an interest in track and field. She participated in a number of disciplines earlier on, competing in the long jump, triple jump and high jump events at the Nigerian school championships and winning a medal in each. Quadri, 31 and presently world number 27 is from Oyo State, a product of schools’ sport. He competed for Nigeria at the London Olympics and Rio Olympics, reaching the quarter-finals in the latter competition. At the World Cup in 2014, he reached the quarter finals in the Men’s Singles. In the 2017 ITTF World Challenge Bulgaria Open, he advanced to the semi-finals where he was defeated in a tight match by eventual winner Dimitrij Ovtcharov In 2014, he was ranked number 30 in world table tennis, and the International Table Tennis Federation named him the Star Player of the year. His peak world ranking was 25, which he held from September 2016- January 2017. Currently he is ranked 27th in the ITTF male world rankings. He was also part of the Nigerian team that won bronze at the 2014 Commonwealth Games. Interestingly in the table tennis, some good development at individual levels are happening; Aruna and some other senior player have just launched a developmental programme – a table tennis league – which will help to develop and raise players and he said, “It a way of giving back to the society that made us.” Funke Oshonaike, a German-based Nigerian female table tennis legend believes that talents abound in the country but that there is need for them to be properly developed to meet up with modern standard. According to her, “The upcoming players need better training; better coaches and psychologists that can help raise their standard. Otherwise, we won’t go anywhere;