 Fighting since Saturday has killed more than 100 fighters from both
sides as the army and its allies unleashed about 2,000 air and
artillery strikes against rebels dug into Syria’s northwest, according
to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Rebels and jihadists have killed more than 130,000 pro-regime forces
since the armed conflict erupted eight years ago with the brutal
repression of protests against Bashar al-Assad, according to local
monitoring groups. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The heavy clashes followed the capture of al-Hobeita, a strategically
important town in Idlib in the rebels’ last major enclave. The capture of al-Hobeit represents the most significant advance the
regime army has made in Idlib province since the start of its
offensive three months ago, the Observatory said. The town as the gateway to the southern countryside of Idlib, to the
main Damascus-Aleppo highway and to the city of Khan Sheikhoun. The three-month offensive has made slower progress than any by Bashar
al-Assad since Russia entered the war on his side in 2015, prompting a
run of military victories that have brought most of Syria back under
his rule. Rebels fighting to oust him are now concentrated in the northwestern
enclave, covering most of Idlib province and parts of Aleppo, Hama and
Latakia provinces, though they also have a small presence in the
southeast near the border with Jordan. The northwest offensive has prompted warnings by the United Nations
and aid agencies of a new humanitarian crisis, with hundreds of
thousands of people having fled the violence to seek shelter at the
border with Turkey. The regime military air strikes have targeted hospitals, schools,
water points, markets, bakeries and other civilian infrastructure, the
U.N. humanitarian coordinator for Syria, Panos Mumtzis, has said. Since the beginning of northwest Syria offensive late April, regime
airstrikes have killed more than 800 civilians and displaced more than
440,000. Syria’s war has killed more than 560,000 people and displaced millions
since it started in 2011 with a brutal crackdown on anti-regime
protests.