ILORIN – Kwara State government has advised residents of the state living around flood-prone areas of the River Niger bank to relocate and heed to the warnings of weather forecasters. The Nigeria Hydrological Services Agencies (NIHSA) had recently issued flood alerts in which it predicted various levels of flooding across the country, especially in states straddling the River Niger where water levels have risen above the 2010 and 2018 levels. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Kwara state government which said the state falls within this axis explained that it felt compelled to officially alert the people to this development and to appeal to them to cooperate with the government on the various measures to mitigate the effects of the envisaged flood. Permanent Secretary of the state Ministry of Environment, Amosa Al-Amin, who spoke at a press briefing in Ilorin on Sunday, said the state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, has directed that proper enlightenment be done and other preventive measures are taken to ensure people of the state do not fall victim of the flood. Al-Amin said: “The Kwara State Government, led by Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, hereby appeals to communities located in and near flood plains and other vulnerable areas are to relocate to safer locations. “Identified communities in Edu Local Government Areas such as Iyeluwa, Belle Gbako, Liptata, Edogi, Chewuru are specifically advised to relocate to safer places for a while. Communities in Jebba and Bacita are also urged to take this very seriously for safety reasons. “Farming along riverine areas should be discouraged for now. Resettlement centres located at Godiwaji in Patigi constructed by the Federal Government could be a safer place during this period. “Residents of communities in Kwara Central like Isale Koko, Dumon, and Abata Sunkere, among others, are advised to heed this warning. Government urges residents of the state to avoid dumping of wastes into river channels or drainages to allow for easy flow of water, while illegal structures along waterways should be demolished.” The government said flood incidents are often due to high rainfall intensity and rainstorm, blockage of the drainage system, poor urban planning resulting in the erection of structures within the flood plains and waterways, river flooding, as well as coastal flooding. The permanent secretary said while nobody could be blamed for the natural phenomena that might cause flooding, people have a responsibility to avoid actions such as blockage of waterways and indiscriminate dumping of wastes which he said often worsen flooding and lead to loss of lives, property and humanitarian crisis. Al-Amin, however, disclosed that his ministry will today flag off some corrective measures to clear Ilorin, the state capital, of indiscriminate dumping of waste and blockage of drainages as part of the efforts to ward off flooding.