LAGOS – Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, a Nigerian politician, is currently a third term member of Federal House of Representatives and he represents Kiru/Bebeji Federal Constituency of Kano State. He hails from Kofa, Bebeji Local Government Area of Kano state. When it comes to influence at the lower chamber of the National Assembly, this lawmaker should be referred to as the most influential member of the house. At various times, he has had the privilege of chairing the most sought after committees of the House, which include Committee on Finance, Appropriation and Land Transport with oversight on Nigeria’s revenue, expenditure, railways and rail projects respectively. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Like in the case of Femi Gbajabiamila, Hon. Jibrin played a pivotal role in the emergence of Yakubu Dogara as the Speaker of the 8th Assembly in 2015. Many had thought that he would be handsomely rewarded for his role in Gbajabiamila’s emergence but this time around, he completely refused to accept chairing any standing committee of the House. The lawmaker maintained that he was not interested in heading any of house committees, adding that he was due to quit politics anytime soon. To buttress this, Speaker of the House disclosed that the lawmaker declined accepting any committee leadership. Gbajabiamila explained that Jibrin was involved in the composition process and declined accepting any committee leadership. According to the Speaker, “Let me clarify that Hon Abdulmumin Jibrin was not excluded from the leadership composition. He was involved in the composition process and declined accepting any committee leadership. Hon Jibrin had, repeatedly, made clear his intention to leave the House. My persuasions and that of some other leaders convinced him, reluctantly, to stay a bit longer.” The Speaker added that Jibrin wanted a fresh challenge and “his preference will be to return to the university and pursue his professional ambition, face his private business or serve in the executive arm of public service. I have no doubt, whatever he decides, he will be of immense value. He has had a meritorious career in the House over the last decade.” However, the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bebeji LGA, Kano State chapter, few days ago, suspended the lawmaker over what alleged anti-party activities His suspension was announced in a statement signed by Chairman Suleiman Gwarmai. A seven-man committee, which was constituted, after the party received a petition against Jibrin, recommended his suspension. The statement read: “Upon a petition received by the APC executive committee of Bebeji Local Government, a seven-man committee was inaugurated to investigate all the issues raised by the petitioner. “After a thorough investigation, the committee submitted its report and recommendations to the Local Government executive which subsequently met and adopted as follows: “That having confirmed various anti-party activities by Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin Kofa which was found contrary to some provisions of the party’s constitution, ranging from article 21, paragraph A (ii) (V). “And (Vii) the executive committee adopted the report and hereby suspended Hon. Kofa with immediate effect for 12 months. “That the executive committee also adopted the committee’s recommendation urging the state Executive committee to recommend to the national executive the immediate expulsion of Hon. Abdulmuminu Jibrin Kofa from the party for various offenses.” It is yet unclear if the APC national executive will heed to the recommendation asking for the expulsion of a man who is believed to have contributed his quota to the party, especially ensuring the emergence of the party’s choice for the House of Reps speakership. Though, this is not the first time the lawmaker will be experiencing political suspension. He was suspended by the 8th Assembly in 2016, after revealing that his colleagues were engaged in budget padding, a scenario where legislators inflated the cost of budget line items in their constituencies for pecuniary gains. Some political observers, have, however, linked his suspension to his alleged interest in contesting the 2023 Kano governorship election.