LAGOS – “I am here as your governor to serve you. I will work tirelessly and take responsibility for the workings of every sector. While I will delegate effectively, the buck will stop with me. I want you to hold me accountable and I will also hold you accountable as we work as partners to bring Oyo State to glory”, said Governor Seyi Makinde on May 29 2019 after taking the oath office as the executive governor of the state. The nomination of Seun Fakorede, a 27-year-old Engineering graduate from Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State, as one of the three commissioner nominees for screening by the Oyo state House of Assembly, has continued to endear Governor Makinde to youths in the country as a worthy role model who can be trusted to live by his words unlike many politicians in the country. Unlike what obtains in the past when the state was under the firm grip of old politicians such as the late Alhaji Lamidi Adedibu popularly referred to as the ‘garrison commander of Oyo Politics’, 51 year-old Makinde has continued to change the narratives in the state by empowering youths and assigning greater responsibilities to them so that they can take up the mantle of leadership when he and his contemporaries exit the stage. On February 3, 2019, Makinde as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had promised teeming youths of the state that he will appoint one of them, clearly an under 30 years of age as the commissioner for youth and sports, if elected as the governor of the state in the governorship election. In his face-to-face interaction, Makinde presented his manifesto as contained in his manifesto tagged ‘roadmap for accelerated development 2019-2023’, and thereafter stood for over 35 minutes to answer various questions posed at him by the youths. On his plan and percentage to allocate to youths in the state, he said, “Anything that has to do with youth, in fact, our Commissioner for Youth and sports, will be somebody below the age of 30. This will also reflect in the appointment of Special Adviser on youth as well.” He then promised that his administration will provide an atmosphere that will spur the youths to exhibit potentials that would make them be at par with their colleagues across the globe in creating jobs and wealth through their intellects, which he says is the best way to reduce unemployment in the state. As expected, many Nigerians trooped to social media to give plaudits to the governor when the announcement became public. A commentator wrote: “Every time Seyi Makinde is trending, it’s always about another amazing thing he has done in Oyo state. With all the campaign our governor here did, me I’ve not heard of any significant thing he has done since assuming office.” Another wrote: “Governor Seyi Makinde appoints a 27yrs old young man into his excos. Good decision from him. Hope the young man won’t disappoint the youths, he should work hard so other governors will see reason to bring more youths onboard.” @Hornomeh on twitter wrote: “Seyi Makinde the kind of politician we need.” @PeterJev: “Meanwhile, I’m moving to Ibadan soon. The state has a reasonable Governor.” Aside Fakorede, 32 year-old Adebo Ogundoyin is currently the Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, making him the youngest Speaker in the history of the State and the country. Political analysts have argued that it would have been impossible for Ogundoyin to achieve this feat without the blessings of Makinde. In his congratulatory message to the Speaker, Makinde said his administration will respect the autonomy of the House as an independent arm of government while also charging the lawmakers to make the welfare of Oyo people their priority. “Hearty congratulations to the newly elected Honourable Speaker, Debo Ogundoyin and Deputy Speaker, Mohammed Fadeyi of the Oyo State House of Assembly. I wish you a successful tenure. Our administration will respect the autonomy of the legislature. “At the inauguration of the Ninth Assembly of Oyo State, I implored the newly-sworn-in members to work collaboratively with the executive arm of government, putting the interests of the good people of Oyo State who elected us, first.” In furtherance of his resolve to productively engage youths in the state, Governor Makinde, a fortnight ago, distributed 50 tricycles to youths in the state in the efforts of his administration to fight poverty in the state. The event, which was held at the premises of the state Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development in Ibadan, the state capital, witnessed a large turnout of beneficiaries of the tricycles that were said to be the first batch. The governor who was represented at the ceremony by the Permanent Secretary of Service Matters, Mrs. Adewole Eyitayo, said the gesture was in fulfillment of his campaign promises in the 2019 elections. She said the programme was targeted at reducing poverty induced by youths’ unemployment, and it would cover a large number of beneficiaries across the state. According to her, “As a new administration that came on board less than three months ago, we have looked into ways of ensuring that we fulfill our promises to our people, parts of which include agriculture, education, security and social investment. “This administration is committed to the development and empowerment of the youths, and those that are yet to benefit from the scheme should expect more life-improving programmes from this government. “I want to admonish you all to be law-abiding and supportive of our government; it is only with this that we can deliver the dividend of democracy to you as expected. “To all the beneficiaries, please make good use of this great opportunity, ensure that you are like the wise servants in the bible who made good use of their talents by ensuring that the talents were increased before the master came back.” The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs, Mrs. Christiana Abioye, said the scheme is purely a public private partnership (PPP) arrangement and state government only stand as a guarantor for the beneficiaries who have fulfilled all required obligations and would be paying installments every week for the period of 56 weeks. The permanent secretary enjoined the beneficiaries to fulfill their parts in time so as to claim ownerships and not to forfeit the opportunity. One of the beneficiaries, Mr. Kayode Olaleye, who spoke on behalf of the beneficiaries, thanked the governor for making the empowerment programme a reality, and promised to judiciously use the tricycles so as to pay back in due time. It will also be recalled that Makinde set a good example for future leaders in the country, when he became the first governor in the current political dispensation to publicly declare his assets, an act which won him praises even from the Presidency. Analysts have posited that the governor is not only living by his promises, he is also laying a good foundation for future leaders on the need to ensure probity, accountability and fulfill electoral promises made, no matter the challenges faced during the course of governance