I may want to throw my weight on the disposition of the Nigeria Football Federation President, Amaju Pinnick, when he said he preferred the foreign coaches to the Nigerian local coaches, given the backlash his federation and coach Gernot Rohr received over the fallout of the Super Eagles third place position in the AFCON 2019. Yes, in as much as I like the local coaches, I prefer the foreign managers handling the national team for so many reasons; time may not permit me here to discuss this today. The fact that the foreign coaches are better than their black skin counterparts, I do not subscribe to a third class white skin coach just like the present coach, whose ability to transform our national teams to an enviable standard across world football playing Countries has failed all litmus test. In fact, the reason the foreign manager was employed by the federation in place of the locals has been circumvented for all reasons known to only Amaju Pinnick, why Rohr has been limited only to the Super Eagles as Coach. Even as the Eagles sole manager, Rohr has failed in all ramifications; what is holding him back after the nations’ cup remains a mystery. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network If Nigeria’s football is still foot dragging in terms of development and regaining dominance as it were, then there was no need to keep Rohr in Nigeria, even though, his sack contract clauses are still issues of doubt; Nigeria football is in trouble. Indeed, if you don’t want your locals to handle your national teams because you feel they are not equipped potentially and professionally to pull the wools from the eyes to returning Nigeria’s football from the doldrums; it calls for an urgent step in employing a better qualified foreign manager who can do the job as spelt in the contract papers. You don’t just wake up one morning and announce to the country that you have employed a foreign coach from the moon and you expect the locals to start clapping for you because it has been speculated in some quarters of the football community that the local coaches don’t go far better in CAF competitions, especially in FIFA tourneys where no African coach has been able to lead an African nation to a semi-final. It is therefore uncomplimentary when you think the locals are not well positioned in terms of development to turning the nation’s teams into a side that could contend contemporarily with some other football countries across Europe and America with less emphasis to Asia and Africa. So, if this is the case at hand which favours the white skin coach against his black counterpart, therefore, such a white skinned coach for the Super Eagles should be the one that can as well impact on the locals expertise, no matter how shallow their intelligent quotient may seem, the foreign manager should be able to prove to the unemployed locals that indeed he is actually better unlike Gernot Rohr whose expertise can also pass for same as the locals. The reason for preferring the foreign coaches most times in Nigeria has eluded the country; given the caliber of administrators in the Glass house, who no longer see football as a tool of unity and for projecting a nation’s strength in Sports and human capacity development, which is positively a reference point of a country’s progression from all points of view. And when you employ a mediocre coach in a White skin for your country just because he is a foreigner, you are not only unpatriotic to your country but a “kill-joy” administrator to the local coaches who see themselves better than the foreign manager. Of course, a lot of indigenous coaches have decided to remain silent in this regard, while a few of them are really not happy that Nigeria’s football has rested too much on the hands of those whose personal interest had become paramount in the scheme of things; hence, Nigeria’s football has gone this bad with or without the foreign mediocre foreign managers. I cannot but agree with some of the local coaches whose point of view is not farfetched from the anomaly of the Glasshouse administration for two or three decades running. If you hire a sound foreign coach in conjunction with two Nigerian coaches worth their onions, it is my hope that Nigeria would be saved from embarrassment in future international engagement if quality coaches are hired. In the days of Coach Clemens Westerhof, Rohr won’t get a place as the Eagles coach. Not even in Keshi’s time. Good Morning Nigeria!