Scottish Premiership champions Celtic were reportedly interested in signing Patrick Twumasi from La Liga outfit Alaves. Celtic’s new interim manager Neil Lennon is unveiled with his assistant John Kennedy at Celtic Park on February 27, 2019 in Glasgow, Scotland. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Celtic’s defence, or a lack thereof, is the talk of the town today and understandably so. Not for the first time, the Hoops have been dumped out of the Champions League at the qualification stage by a second-rate European outfit. CFR Cluj rocked up to Glasgow and stunned the dominant force of Scottish football with a 4-3 defeat that will go down in legend for all the wrong reasons. But, while Celtic were a mess at the back in a humiliating loss, how do things look at the other end of the pitch? With just two weeks remaining in the transfer window, the Hoops are set to go into a testing 2019/20 campaign with three senior strikers. One Player Each Premier League Club Sold Too Soon
But Odsonne Edouard remains erratic, Leigh Griffiths has endured his own problems off the pitch and Vakoun Issouf Bayo, who played just two minutes against Cluj, is clearly yet to convince Neil Lennon that he can be trusted. Football Ghana claimed earlier in the summer that Celtic were giving serious consideration to making a move for Alaves’s Patrick Twumasi and, with time running out, the Hoops should make a decision before it is too late. Patrick Twumasi of Astana celebrates his goal during the UEFA Europa League group stage match between Maccabi Tel Aviv and Astana FC at Netanya Stadium, Netanya, Israel on 2 November 2017…. According to Ghana Soccer Net, the Ghanaian international is desperate to leave Alaves after a difficult spell in Spain and he’s on the verge of signing for Turkish outfit Gaziantep after entering advanced negotiations. There is a reason Celtic fans will remember the name. Twumasi scored twice in a clash between Celtic and Astana back in 2017, after all. And, while he wouldn’t solve their ongoing defensive deficiencies, he would add depth and added firepower to a squad that needs to fight for four competitions in the months ahead.