Calabar – A young man aged 26, Joseph Odey in Cross River State has launched a lone-man protest to the governor’s office in Calabar calling on the state Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade to kindly direct the payment of his late father’s benefits and gratuity. Carrying a placard with the inscription “Your Excellency, please Pay Gratuity. My Family is distressed”, he stood by the entrance of the governor’s office and the governor personally witnessed him as he drove pass into his office on Wednesday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He spoke with newsmen and gave his father’s name as, late Anthony Odey who died in December 2015, three years before his due date for retirement. His words, “I am at the Governor’s office today to bring his attention to the non-payment of my late father’s benefits and gratuity after he had put in 32- years of faithful service to the state and died as a school principal a few months before he was due for retirement”. “My father last served as a school principal in Government Secondary School, Ebo in Yala local government area in the state. Following his sad death, I commenced processing the payment of his benefits, completed it in 2017 and received official approval in January 2018.” “After waiting for another year and no payment was made to my family by the Government, I approached the Accountant General of the State about the matter but he told me that no payment was being considered and that there is a backlog of pending payments stretching back to 2014, all awaiting the Governor’s approval. Following this disclosure, I attempted several times to bring the Governor’s attention to the issue but all messages to that effect were unanswered.” “My family has been facing hard times since the death of our father who was the breadwinner. My two immediate younger sisters at different levels of study in the University are on the verge of dropping out while the third who passed WAEC and JAMB exams this year faces an uncertain future due to our financial incapacitation. I make this public appeal to Governor Benedict Ayade, Your Excellency, kindly let my family have the chance to live a decent life by giving the authorisation for us to be paid”. “I will be here with my placard every day, come rain or shine until the approval is given.” Reacting to the young man’s demands, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Christian Ita, noted that the state government has been paying gratuity and pensions of retirees and why the late man’s benefits are no paid is a function of money. “It will be paid. The governor inherited backlog of gratuity, dating back to 2013 and has been clearing them in batches. We have cleared 2013 and currently paying the gratuity for 2014. The governor will pay, the young man should be patient,” the media aide assured.