A 38-year-old Indian woman identified as Sayrabano Khan, of Kurla, East Mumbai, has been charged with kidnapping and raping a boy, aged 16. A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court handed down the charges on Tuesday, August 13, 2019. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The court also ordered Khan to be remanded in custody until she is sentenced. According to the police, she allegedly sexually assaulted the teenager for nine days between July 2 and July 11, 2019, after abducting him. It was heard that Khan contacted the victim and asked him to meet her on June 29 at 7 am. She then took him to Bandra where she told him to take the SIM card out of his phone. He did so and Khan broke it. She also removed her own SIM card and damaged it. The pair then travelled to Delhi by train. Khan began visiting nearby hotels in order to find a vacant room, but she was unsuccessful. After she could not find any accommodation, Khan and the teenage boy went to Vadodara, Gujarat. When the Indian woman went to inquire about accommodation, she discovered that there was nowhere to stay. On July 1, they travelled to Navsari and decided to sleep on the train platform. Khan became desperate for money. As a result, she sold her jewellery for Rs. 12,500 (£145). She then used the money to rent a room in Jalalpur, near Navsari. Police officers have said that while staying there, Khan allegedly sexually abused the boy between July 2 and July 11. Khan was arrested on August 13 after she was seen with the teenage boy at 11:30 am in her hometown of Kurla. The boy’s father had filed a missing person’s complaint on July 2 after searching the neighbourhood for his son. Khan’s husband had also lodged a missing person’s complaint at Nehru Nagar Police Station on July 29. The woman was presented before a court and charged with kidnap and rape. Judge SJ Gharat ordered Khan to be remanded in police custody until August 21, 2019. This is due to the police requesting her to remain in custody as they have not yet been able to locate and collect statements from witnesses. An investigation is ongoing to determine if she sexually assaulted the teenager. 