AKURE – Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has commended the Nigerian Army for its role in curtailing criminal activities in the state. He gave the commendation while receiving the General Officer Commanding, 2nd Division of the Nigerian Army, Major General Bamidele Omozoje in his office on Thursday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The governor said the 32 Brigade Command always rose to the tough challenge of combatting criminal activities in the state. Reconstruction of deplorable roads within the Army barracks in Akure by the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led administration and having newly assumed office as the GOC, 2nd Division of the Nigerian Army, informed the visit of the military chief. Major General Omozoje, who is the 40th GOC, said he assumed duty in Ibadan on 23rd July, 2019 and found it expedient to undertake a tour of military commands under his watch so as to acquaint himself with their progress and challenges. Governor Akeredolu disclosed he was concerned about the deplorable state of the road network and buildings within the barracks of the 32 Brigade Command Akure, which informed his decision to have the roads reconstructed. He said he had always believed that the barracks could be made better to enhance the quality of lives of officers and men of the Brigade Command. General Omozoje appreciated the governor on the reconstruction of some of the Owena barrack’s road network which he said has greatly given the barracks a befitting facelift. Governor Akeredolu assured the GOC of his continued support and hoped for a better collaboration from the military towards ensuring security of lives and property in the state. He, however, charged the command to use the large expanse of land at the barracks for commercial agriculture which he said would boost the revenue generation of the command to further assist in maintaining its decaying infrastructure. The GOC, on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff, assured the governor of the support of the Armed Forces to civil authorities in the country and the state in particular.