Professor Tunde Adeniran, a former Minister of Education and chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on the latest developments in the polity. Excerpts: Few days ago, some young Nigerians carried out a revolutionary protest against the Muhammadu Buhari administration but they were crushed while the convener, Omoyele Sowore is in DSS Custody. Do you think a revolution can succeed in this country? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Did they say they are doing a revolution against the government? We have to be very careful. When terms are used in politics, they define a particular situation. It is necessary you read their manifesto fully to really understand. As a political scientist, revolution means different things but it depends on the context. You can have agricultural revolution, technological revolution and all other kinds of revolution. Even within political revolution, there are also other aspects. So, it is necessary we examine the context before one jumps into conclusion. My own position is democratic consolidation. I want us to consolidate our democratic processes, to build institutions so that no matter who is there, the country will survive, there will be development, peace, justice and equity. My own position is that we need to revisit quite a number of issues. All our institutions are fragile, so we really need to look at them and rebuild them. Also, we must ensure that people become more patriotic. Nobody in his right senses will want a situation whereby there is turbulence in this country the way some people think of it. What we need is stability based on justice and equity. There is need for True Federalism, though some people have given it different interpretations now. In other words, you empower the states, local governments and strengthen the institutions of governance at the federal level so that we do not have a situation in which whatever happens solely depends on individuals who hold offices. This is the time in which we all have to work together as Nigerians, rally round ourselves because we have no other country. We really need to work very hard to consolidate this democratic process because there is no alternative. The incoming generations will not forgive us if we toil with what those before us fought for. Those of my generation are also aware of the sacrifices we made and what we did to bring about this new dispensation, the Fourth Republic. So, we will not want anything that will destabilise it. What we want is good governance, accountability and consolidation in such a way that the welfare of our people and Nigerians will be taken care of. Do you think President Muhammadu Buhari is doing enough to curtail the activities of killer herdsmen especially in the South-West? The issue of national security is a very complex and deep one. We should not deal with issues with isolated cases. The rampaging of bandits who are killing, raping and kidnapping in all parts of the country particularly in the South-West is very disturbing. I believe we need to have a holistic approach to it. There is urgent need for us to go back to the drawing board. When something is being done and it does not provide full and final solution, it means we need to go back to the drawing board and re-examine the situation to find out what it is we are not getting right. My position is that at this point, we have to involve everybody, particularly the local people; from the community level to the local government, state level and national level, so as to be able to solve this problem. It is not a question of just one section of the country, though it is very prevalent in the South-West in particular for obvious reasons. This is why more efforts should be devoted to that part of the country. The South-West should be handled as a very special case; so also the North-West. If you see what has been happening in places like Zamfara in terms of insecurity, then you will know that indeed, the South-West and North-West deserve to be given special attention in terms of security. This is of course taken for granted that the security situation should be handled as an emergency situation nationwide. You look at the South- East, North-East and other zones where we have challenges of insecurity. The insecurity in the North- East started with Boko Haram. What is now happening in some other areas are even worse; but then, that has not resolved the crisis in the North- East. Boko Haram is still on the rampage, causing havoc. Day in, day out we are getting reports that are very worrisome. So, all Nigerians must rally round the government and the state governors should do a lot too in this particular regard. We cannot be expecting the federal government to be tackling this alone, although the control of the military and the police is in their hands. But then, there is still much to be done at the local level and I am happy that some local communities are taking the initiatives. That should be done to complement whatever the federal government is doing. We also have to ensure that in the final analysis, the protection of lives and properties still remains the first responsibility of the Nigerian nation. The leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzakky has rejected the treatment being given to him abroad and returned to Nigeria. How best do you think this situation can be handled? What I will want the federal government to do is to comply with what the court has pronounced. The court decided that El-Zakzaky should be allowed to go for medical treatment and the federal government has allowed that. I commend the federal government for that. As they have done in this regard, the federal government must always obey the court. That is what I am talking about when I said consolidating an institution. When courts are obeyed, the courts are respected and judges will be able to perform their duties in the interest of the nation. So, the Zakzaky issue is worth commending the federal government for, even though one can say they shouldn’t have any choice since the court has so decided. But then, there are some cases in which they failed to comply with court rulings. I am happy that this particular issue is being handled the way it should be. He has been granted the permission to go for medical treatment, what follows after that is a different issue. I will appeal to the federal government to ensure that the man receives proper treatment. New Ministers will be sworn-in this week. What are your expectations from them? I have no comment because I don’t know many of these ministers. The only thing I can say is there are few of them that I know who are men and women of integrity, who are patriotic and who will be able to serve this country well. But like I said, I don’t know many of these new ministers and I cannot comment on what I don’t know. We have cases of people with criminal records contesting elections. What do you think can be done to correct this? The rules are there. I believe so much in the rule of law. I believe that INEC as the electoral umpire should do more thorough work in determining who goes for election and who does not. A situation in which some people go for election and they say because they have won, then you cannot bring up their criminal past doesn’t augur well for the sanity of the democratic process. More work should be done to make sure that only those qualified on the basis of our constitution and on the basis of the electoral guidelines are allowed to take part in elections.