SAUDI ARABIA – The leadership of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria, (NAHCON), has appraised the conduct of the 2019 Hajj operations and adjudged it to be the most successful yet. The acting chairman and chief executive of the Commission, Barr. Abdullahi Mukhtar Muhammad who made this known at the post Arafat stakeholders meeting in Makkah also commended stakeholders’ efforts in ensuring a resounding success for the exercise. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The NAHCON boss also gave a thumb-up to the Nigerian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Justice Isa Muhammad Dodo, his embassy staff and the Nigerian Consular General and his staff for their support, cooperation, and guidance. The post Arafat meeting which held on Thursday night was aimed at taking stocks of all that has happened before and during the Hajj exercise, with a view to identifying lapses and make adjustments towards correcting same. While reviewing the three-day Masha’ir activities in Mina, Arafat and Muzdalifah, the NAHCON boss lamented the way and manner pilgrims of other nations trespassed on Nigerian tents unhindered, when same couldn’t have been tolerated by them from Nigerians. He also decried the congestive state of some tents in Mina with assurances of taking measures toward improving it going forward. Also praised at the event for their contributions were staff of the Commission, state officials, adhoc staff and the media team, even as he noted “the not so envisaged and anticipated challenges faced this year are eye openers to device means of guarding against their future occurrences.” According to the NAHCON boss, the outing of the National Medical Team this year has been “very impressive because of their sacrifices, innovations, commitment, perseverance and their unequalled determination to serve the Nigerian pilgrims diligently.” He, however expressed sadness in announcing the demise of 10 Nigerian pilgrims so far, and therefore condoled with the families, pilgrims, boards and governments of the affected states, praying for the repose of the souls of the departed.