Bauchi – Professor Ango Abdullahi, a onetime Vice Chancellor of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, has urged the Federal Government to pay attention to the challenges affecting Fulani herdsmen by rehabilitating 600 abandoned grazing reserves across the northern part of the country. Abdullahi, who stated this on Wednesday while interacting with newsmen in Bauchi, said the issue of Fulani herdsmen in Nigeria was now becoming the center of politics, which is overheating the polity. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He stated that Fulani herdsmen were being tagged a bad name to the extent that every evil happening in the country was attributed to them, adding that Fulanis have not benefitted anything from the government. “Fulani herdsmen were better off when the British were here. The British created road tracks for them. They established veterinary clinics, markets and cattle market, knowing that the agricultural sector, particularly livestock, is very significant to the development any country. “As Nigerians, we should take a look at the contributions Fulani herdsmen are making to the economy of this country. A Fulani man can be in the bush for 12 hours with mosquitoes, flies, snakes and everything you can think of, yet he nurtures healthy cows so that we can have healthy meats in our market. So what have we done to better their plights? “We enjoy subsidy in electricity, water supply and roads but the Fulanis are not entitled to that kind of privilege, yet they are very hardworking. “Today, the Fulanis are branded the cause of insecurity in the country, robbers and terrorists. If you must know, the Fulanis are being robbed of their cattle and are sold to meat sellers. So if it were you that your means of livelihood is taken away from you, won’t you react in a hostile manner? The don called on the Federal Government to synchronise agricultural policies in such a way that cattle routes can be opened again, lamenting that all the cattle routes  in the country have been abandoned with 600 unattended grazing reserves in Northern Nigeria alone. “What the government needs to do is to rehabilitate these abandoned cattle routes and encourage private sector partnership which is the major source of employment in the world, in order to address unemployment in the country,” he stated.