ABUJA – The Coalition of Northern Groups (CNGs) has urged the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) to immediately mobilise the political elite in the north to cut political ties with the South-west geopolitical zone over what it described as a conspiracy by some southern elements to forceful oust President Muhammadu Buhari from office. The groups was reacting to the recent #RevolutionNow protest and the alleged silence by some South-west political leaders. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In a statement released in Abuja, Wednesday night, Abdul-Azeez Sulaiman, spokesman of the groups specifically accused South west political elite like Senator Bola Tinubu, Babatunde Fashola, John Fayemi, Rauf Argbesola, among other political, cultural, religious and traditional leadership of supporting the protest. “It is quite unfortunate that the South-west which has been the the single major beneficiary of the Buhari administration should also be in the forefront of efforts to discredit and bring him down by all means. “This can be seen in the manner in which the bulk of political, cultural, religious and traditional leadership is standing solidly against the government with its open support for call for the violent overthrow of the Buhari government by the #Revolutionow organizers. “In particular, such individual beneficiaries of the government as Bola Tinubu, Fashola, Fayemi, Argbesola, and others largely from the South West were nowhere to be seen when their people and the southern-based media ignited tensions over the government’s Ruga initiative. “These same beneficiaries appear today in implicit support of the proposed insurrection by maintaining a conspiratorial neutrality while other southern influencers like Wole Soyinka, Bisi Akande, Falana etc explicitly back the organizers.” The coalition also asked President Buhari to sincerely carry out an introspection over how the country got to its present precarious state under his watch, honestly accept his inadequacies and take genuine steps to address the mounting national grievances. “Unless this is done, with the growing angry mood that pervades the entire country, the likelihood of a more serious dissent remains imminent. “We also wish to ask the president if in all honesty he still considers the South Western players as true friends who are genuinely desirous of his success. He should ask himself if the treatment he is receiving from them is worth the attention he had given the South West which involved colliding with his northern brethren to the point of elevating the status of June 12 as appeasement.”