YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State government under Governor Seriake Dickson on Friday said it had finally completed repayment of the N50 billion bond secured by the administration of former Governor Timipre Sylva. Mr. Maxwell Ebibai, the Commissioner for Finance, disclosed this during the monthly transparency briefing for the months of June and July, 2019 at the Treasury Building in Yenagoa. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ebibai was flanked by his counterpart in charge of the Ministry Information and Orientation, Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, and the state’s Accountant-General, Mr. Eniekezime, at the event. The Council of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) approved the N50b bond with a total value of N104billion for the Sylva administration in July 2010 with repayment to end in 2017. In June 2016, the Governor Dickson-led government approved the restructuring of the N50b bond to 2019 instead of the 2017 it was earlier scheduled to terminate. Since the state government floated the bond, the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) had been deducting at source over N1billion per month from Bayelsa State’s revenue allocation. Ebibai said the government offset the N50b bond in the month of July 2019, stressing that repaying it was painful to the government but it had to take up the responsibility to defray the financial burden. He further said that there was nothing wrong for a government to undertake deficit financing, adding that the most important thing was what it was used for. Announcing the total FAAC deductions for July as N1, 125, 222,000, the Finance Commissioner said “If you notice, there is some reduction from our FAAC deductions if you compare the months of June and July. “In the month of June, our deductions was N1.54b. In the month of July our total deductions was N1.125b. So, we have approximately about N421 million difference in the FAAC deductions. “That report shows that the state has completed the repayment of the bond that was taken by the previous government and it is our ongoing concern as a government to carry the assets and liabilities of every government. “We have taken that responsibility painfully and we are done with it. There is nothing wrong with a government deciding to do deficit financing. There is nothing wrong with that. So, painfully we are done with the repayment of the bond and we put that behind us as a state.”