BOLU-OLU ESHO AKURE – A Joint Task Force on Fake and Counterfeit Drugs has sealed off 10 premises of il­legal patent medicine ven­dors in Ayede Ogbese and Shasha markets in Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State. Chairman Task Force, Olugbenga Lasekan, a phar­macist, who led the team, condemned the unrepen­tant attitude of most patent medicine vendors in areas visited, who opened without adhering to rules of practice. According to Abooluwa Famakinwa, press of officer of health, Lasekan said by rules laid down by the Phar­macist Council of Nigeria (PCN) that no medicine out­let should be opened without consulting the PCN for ap­proval and that the rule was not obeyed by the defaulters. He noted that medicine premises should not be cit­ed in filling stations, mar­kets, motor parks and that containers should not also be used as shops. “Shops that open with­out following laid down rules and are not licensed and are illegal, while drugs without NAFDAC registra­tion are fake. “By the Rules of Prac­tice, Patient Medicine Vendors have list of drugs they are permitted to sell, which does not include Antibiotics, Injections and Control Drugs. “People are not allowed to hawk drugs because the drugs are supposed to be stored under certain tem­perature which the prac­tice of hawking violates thus making the drugs dangerous for human con­sumption,” the task force chairman said. The chairman stated that the state has zero tolerance for fake, adulterated and un­wholesome products as well as illegal premises and will not rest on its oars until the state is ridden of defaulters. He, however, warned that warned that the state would not hesitate to pros­ecute recalcitrant vendors and association leaders who aided and abetted il­legality, while advising vendors to go and obtain their licenses from PCN to avoid constant harassment and embarrassment. Nevertheless, Lasekan expressed delight at the success made at the out­ing, advised residents to al­ways buy their drugs from licensed patient medicine vendors or pharmacies.