ABEOKUTA – Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has warned landlords and property owners in the state to scrutinise their tenants before admitting them or risk jail term. The governor handed down the note in Abeokuta while addressing journalists on the recent kidnap of five people including a Redeemed Church of God Pastor along Ijebu Ode axis of the Sagamu-Benin expressway. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The governor maintained that any landlords or property owners harbouring criminals will not be only arrested but the property would be demolished. He noted that, the state government would soon launch the security trust fund, with a bill before the state House of Assembly where there will be stiff penalty for criminals. He added that as part of efforts to cordoned off the state corridors of any form of criminality, he had instructed that 25metres of the state roads along Sagamu/ Ore/Benin-Lagos Expressway to be cleared off. “Let me warn landlords and property owners harbouring criminals in the state that those found guilty will be arrested and prosecuted, and such property will be demolished. “Let me state in clear terms that, no part of Ogun State will be a safe haven for criminals. We shall smoke them out and arrest them. Ogun State will continue to be a paradise, but for those with premium criminal tendencies, hell shall be their child play. “Those criminals are not ghost, they’re not spirit. They live within us and we must strive to fish them out. We are committed to create a conducive environment for the public private partnership investment and we will not allow anybody to threaten the peaceful coexistence of the state”. Governor Abiodun therefore commended President Muhammadu Buhari for providing the necessary equipment to fight crime in the state. He equally commended men and officers of Ogun State command for their swift rescue of the five kidnap victims at Ogbere-Sagamu section of Benin-Lagos express road. He however was full of praises for officers and men of the Anti-Kidnapping and Cultism Unit of the command for their bravery and doggedness which led to the rescue of the victims.