ADO-EKITI – This is certainly not the best of time for the Ekiti State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Since the party suffered a crushing defeat in the hand of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last gubernatorial election, it had embroiled in chains of crises. From a near inactivity, to leadership crisis, mass defection, and lately, to gale of suspension. Former governor Ayodele Fayose and Senator Abiodun Olujimi are currently battling for the soul of the party in Ekiti, with the latter winning more supporters to her side. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Some PDP stakeholders have blamed the leadership of the party for allowing the crisis to fester because they believed the national secretariat looked the other way while Fayose allegedly undermined the party’s interest in Ekiti. Recently, the stakeholders issued a communiqué at Ifaki Ekiti, where they alleged that Fayose campaigned against the PDP and its candidates in the last elections and has not been checked or sanctioned by the National Working Committee. The communiqué was signed by delegates across the 16 local government areas of the state at the meeting chaired by Dr. Jimi Oke, with former acting governor, Tunji Odeyemi, and Kehinde Odebunmi among others in attendance. The stakeholders expressed optimism that “PDP is the party to beat in Ekiti State but has to be well restructured and allow discipline to reign supreme.” They condemned imposition of candidates on the party, describing it as “inimical to the progress of the party. That this has bred indiscipline among members and low morale among the disciplined members.” A fact-finding committee of the stakeholders had in their report at the meeting hinged the party’s poor outing in the general elections in the state on alleged anti-party activities by Fayose; and lack of virile, bold and capable state WC with capacity to lead. Other factors, according to them, include impoverishment of party members and few political appointments. Few days ago a top aide of Fayose and ex member of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Samuel Omotoso was suspended over charges of anti party activities. The letter conveying his suspension was made available to journalists in Ado-Ekiti by Sunday Ojo, the PDP chairman in Oye Local Government .In the letter the embattled former legislator was accused engineering parallel executive in Oye local government. The letter was unanimously signed by executives of PDP in Oye local government and chairmen of the 11 wards in the council. According to the letter, “the party has consequently constituted a 3-man committee in strict adherence to the party’s constitution to investigate the allegation. The committee is to conduct unbiased investigation and make necessary recommendations within two weeks on the allegation.” Omotoso, when contacted, said the suspension was a child’s play, describing those behind it as jesters. He noted that the leader of the group, who claimed to be chairman of the party at the local government level, was already on suspension by the SWC of the party and has no statutory powers to suspend him. “I want you to ignore the group as they are only seeking for relevance. The sponsor has been suspended by the most powerful political organisation in Ekiti, the SWC, so I don’t know where he got that power from,” he said. Early signs of crisis manifested in the party shortly after its governorship primaries in 2010 with produced Ayo Fayose as its party flag bearer. About fourteen aspirants, who threw their hats in the ring, complained of lack of fairness and transparency in the exercise, the development, which made many of them to, either left the party or stay aloof throughout the electioneering. In spite of the party victory in the 2010 governorship election, many of its gladiators rued the leadership style of governor Fayose who they variously accused of annihilating real or perceived enemies within the party. Although, few other chieftains of the party, like Prince Dayo Adeyeye and Biodun Olujimi got along with Fayose, their romance however, was short lived. While Olujimi was rewarded with Senate ticket, Adeyeye was made a Minister. Fayose also pleaded with party to allow him choose his running mate, as he would want to pick an ambitious deputy. The state chapter of the PDP also ensured that all members who opposed to Olusola’s emergence are either expelled or suspended. Among those suspended were seven of its members in the State House of Assembly. Although, several aspirants left as a result of the endorsement but Fayose apologised to few aggrieved leaders of the party like Adeyeye and Olujimi who stayed put and fought the battle till the end. Fayose who said he had since realised his mistakes expressed regret that it would be difficult to back down on the matter. Although, many of its gladiators who left PDP in the build up to the July 14 Governorship Election have since returned, the leadership tussle within had refused to allow any meaningful impact. At the heat of the crisis, 16 local government chairmen elected under the platform of PDP, were also suspended by the state assembly over allegation of fraud. The sanction also affected the 177 councilors as well as other top political officials of the councils. The assembly also sought forensic audit of all accounts to pave way for more actions by Governor Kayode Fayemi. The Chairman House committee on Information and Leader of Government Business, Hon. Gboyega Aribisoga, said the action was taken in line with Section 7 of the 1999 constitution and Section 82 of the Assembly’s Standing Order. Aribisoga revealed that the reports submitted by Public Accounts Committee saddled with the responsibility of probing the finances of the councils, in line with Section 82 of the 1999 constitution contained alleged infractions in form of misappropriation, diversion and contract inflation, which he said the House can’t overlook. “We worked on the documents and we realised that the council bosses went on their way to use direct labour for projects that goes beyond their approval limits making them conduit pipes to massively loot the third tier of government. “The ineptitude, corruption, misappropriation, diversion and outright looting discovered in the reports saddened us that the third tier of government was badly managed by these local government elected officials. They showed that they were there to fend for themselves and not the people. “Section 7 of the 1999 constitution stipulated that the House of Assembly shall make laws for the good governance and operations of the councils, including agencies not contained on the exclusive list “We hereby resolved that the chairmen of the 16 local government councils, their appointed officials and all councilors be placed on an indefinite suspension to pave way for a forensic audit of the accounts for their continued stay in office will obstruct the course of investigation. “The suspended officials should hand over government properties in their possession to the Directors of Administration. We also resolved that appropriate sanctions will be meted out to any erring elected or appointed and career officers that are found culpable in the misapplication, misappropriation and diversion of public funds,” he said. He added further, “We saw cases of over invoicing and contract inflation and there were evidence of how the awarded contracts were awarded to families and their cronies. “We are not going to spare anyone, including the career officers. Whoever that is culpable will be sanctioned. But they have the liberty to go to court to challenge our action.”