KUNLE SOMORIN Powered by RubiQube Ad Network That the Dapo Abiodun administration in the Gateway State has embarked on palliative measures on some critical roads across the state is no longer news. What is interesting is the enthusiasm and feedback from affected localities  and areas as  residents who had had harrowing experiences on the roads were jubilant, asking the state government to extend the gesture to other areas, especially with the bad effect of the rainy season. Prince Dapo Abiodun, the Ogun State governor, demonstrated his understanding of the state of physical infrastructure in the state when he said in his inaugural speech that “In the course of electioneering, my extensive tour showed the unsatisfactory state of our public infrastructure, road: rural and urban, water, electricity and housing leaves much to be desired and the concerns of our people in this regard are well placed. From Ilaro to Ilara, Ajebo to Ajebandele, Odeda to Odogbol, Iwopin to Iwoye, Iperuto Ipokia, Sango- Ota to Sagamu, Ijebu-ode to Itoko, Igbesa to Igbogila , the story is the same.” He  made a covenant that taxpayers money would be judiciously spent. He said: In order to maximise the full benefits of government spending on infrastructure, we shall ensure adequate planning, evaluation and preparation before infrastructure projects are embarked upon’’ To strike a balance between proper planning and ensuring the people do not suffer unnecessarily, the government embarked on  palliative measures on  some of the roads, which include Adigbe-Obada road, Lagos-Otta-Abeokuta road, Ilaro-Owode road, township roads in Ijebu Ode, among others. One of such roads is  the  32Km Sango-Ojodu Abiodun road, one of the roads awarded, but abandoned by the immediate-past administration of Senator Ibikunle Amosun. The road, which cut across various border communities between Lagos and Ogun State has been in the state of comatose before the emergence of the present administration. To bring succor to the people living along that axis, Abiodun directed that palliative measures should begin on the road. The joy of residents  of  the area who had almost lost hope of revival of the  road under the current administration, especially with existing political bickering knew no bounds. Since the commencement of the palliative measure, it has been applause. They  sang praises of the present administration and like Oliver Twist, some of them called the government’s attention to other areas that needed urgent attention Olanipekun Abdul, a resident, stated: “Well done, Mr. Governor.” But, he reminded the governor about the condition of other roads  in the axis . He said: “The road from Akute to Ishashi to Berger is also bad. Please, come to our aid.” Another resident, simply identified as Adegbare, described the palliative measure as a welcome development, which would open up the state. He said: “Welcome development. Long overdue. It will open up Ogun State.” Also, Emeka Onyekachi, a resident of Musa 3, Adiyan Gas-link, AgbadoOgun State, stated: “hank you, sir, for this development.  Please, sir, we need your help from Adiyan road, off Agbado. Please, help us and God bless you.”  Yet, Johnson from Agbado area, said: “Thanks a million Governor Abiodun”, while Ajisegiri Jubril lent his voice, thus: “This is a welcome development. We the people in this Ijoko/Akute road are happy that palliative measures are being put in place by the governor. Kudos to you. Omoluabi governor!” Apart from the palliative measure, Abiodun had said that the Sango-Ojodu-Abiodunroad remained one of his top priorities as soon as the rainy season is over. He had promised to ensure the completion of the road project which had undergone over 300% variation in its cost of construction during the past administration. The road was awarded at a cost of N12billion in 2012 and the immediate-past administration later raised the budget to N70billion with N22billion already expended on five flyover bridges along that road. The state government lamented that the socio-economic activities along the axis had been greatly affected due to the neglect of the road based on a claim of the paucity of funds by the previous government. The situation is not different for residents and commuters along  Lagos-Abeokuta express road as the palliative measure by the current administration no doubt comes as a big relief owing to the  nightmarish experience  daily experienced by commuters on the road. Some of the residents had lamented the deplorable condition of the road. For instance, a resident simply identified as Phelix made this alarming statement, “How can you call this an express road? It should rather be called Lagos-Abeokuta village road.” Another  resident, identified as Ezekiel, said: “Too bad for the Western Region of Nigeria in spite of the huge votes for the current government from the region there’s no single FG infrastructural project being embark upon except the Lagos-Ibadan express way which was commenced  by the previous administration.”’ Also, the government has demonstrated responsiveness to cases of damages occasioned by recent flood that ravaged some parts of the state. The governor and his team, on inauguration, paid visits to the affected areas, promising to put smiles on the people’s faces by ensuring that those areas get desired attention. He directed immediate construction of box culverts in critically affected areas. The action of government was conveyed through  a statement by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of works and infrastructure,  Engineer KayodeAdemolake. He said  the governor had ordered immediate construction of  culverts in Ijebu-Ode and Abeokuta. The statement reads in part: “The Ogun State government has given the directive  for the immediate commencement of the construction of hydraulic facilities across Balogun Kuku road, Ijebu-Ode and Adigbe –Opako in Abeokuta which are some of the areas affected by recent flooding to prevent ecological disasters’’ Ademolake  said: “Governor Dapo Abiodu ordered the immediate reconstruction of  box culverts and the restoration of  roads that were damaged by the recent  flooding in the area as part of his administration’s determination to make  life bearable for the people’’.  He adviced  motorists to take alternative road as the road  would be completely closed to traffic upon commencement of work on Wednesday, August 21, 2019. Also included in the plans are all the link roads with Lagos, including the Ota-Agbado road ,Ijebu Ode-Epe expressway and Sagamu-Ogijo-Ikorodu road which are being fixed to ensure that commuters and citizens alike have a better experience connecting the state with the sprawling commercial city of Lagos. Abiodun had in August, while interfacing with the World Bank team headed by its Country Director, Rachid Benmessaoud, in Abuja, indicated the intention to take over three federal roads for repairs, which represents the link roads in question. According to a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Kunle Somorin, The governor had sought  permission of the Federal Government to dualise the three major  federal  roads linking the state and Lagos state under the public Private sector partnership arrangement’’. This is so, as Public-Private Partnership arrangement was also one of his inaugural promises of delivering quality infrastructure to the citizenry. Abiodun had  said he was at the World Bank to share his vision of collective prosperity for Ogun people and bring on board global best practices on the ease of doing business from the World Bank. He underscored the importance of development partnership to actualise his “building our future together” agenda and the centrality of public private sector partnerships. Lamenting the conditions of the road, he said, “The Lagos-Abeokuta road is a sorry sight when it rains and our people need to commute to and from Lagos every day because we are to Lagos what New Jersey is to New York. He added: “People who commute through Iyana Ilogbo will tell you of the nightmare they encounter every day because of potholes which cause endless gridlock. This is a road that has been under construction for a long time and still needs about N26billio before completion. Speaking on the   Federal Government’s preparedness, he raised alarm that “Only N1billion was in this year’s federal budget for that same road. So, as a responsible government, which is closer to the people, we have to do something.” He stated that the Epe-Ijebu Ode road required similar intervention, just as the Ikorodu-Sagamu corridor.  His words: “Lagos has completed its own end of the Epe-Ijebu Ode road. What we need to make it a total package is about 14.4km. So, we are taking it over because the welfare of our people matters. It will become an alternative route for motorists going to the eastern part of the country.” Somorin is Chief Press Secretary to Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State