Senator Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele, former Deputy Governor of Lagos State and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on developments in the nation and why she fell out with Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former Lagos State governor. Excerpts: Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Looking at the state of the nation, President Muhammadu Buhari last week inaugurated his cabinet. What are your expectations from these new ministers? I have no expectations whatsoever from this government. None at all. This government has nothing to offer as far as I am concerned. But they are promising to take us to the Next Level, are you not interested in that? Next Level where? Into the dungeon? I am sorry but Nigeria is in a very sorry state. Are we calling ourselves a nation now? Look at what is happening. The economy has collapsed yet they keep on lying to us that the economy is doing well. When they took over in May 2015, Gross Domestic Product was 5.1 percent but today it is 1.4 percent. We know the exchange rate of the Naira to the Dollar what it was then and we know how much it is now. It is almost tripled yet they promised us that they will make One Naira equal to the Dollar. So, you can see that this is a government of liars. They are only there to line their pockets. The APC said your party; PDP is responsible for the mess having misgoverned the country for 16 years. What is your take on that? How could it possibly be? When PDP was in government, people were enjoying. People could eat well. The Naira to the Dollar was about N160, now it is N370. So, how can you then compare the two governments? It just shows that APC members are unrealistic people. They are living in cloud cuckoo land or else they just want to be telling us lies and thinking that we are stupid enough to accept their lies. Are you hopeful about the future of this country? I’m a Nigerian. So, I only pray that there is hope. But when I look at the current situation realistically, I really cannot say where we are going as a nation. It is a sad situation because we don’t know what is going to happen to our children and grandchildren. At my age now, to see Nigeria like this and looking at it and seeing that my children and grandchildren don’t really have any future in this country, it is most disheartening. Looking back in retrospect to your time as Deputy Governor of Lagos state , it has been alleged your insubordination to your principal, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu caused the rift between the two of you. How true is that? Well, I don’t think it is insubordination because as my principal then, there is nothing he asked me to do that I did not do at least as far as my duties as the Deputy Governor were concerned. The only thing I didn’t do is to join him in taking over the party from the elders who had supported us and put us as Governor and Deputy Governor.He wanted me to join him in taking over the party from the elders and I refused. I believe that is a betrayal of trust which I will not be a party to. Did he actually discuss that with you? Of course! He did call me and said to me that he thought we should take over the party from the elders, who were the founders of the party. When I asked him why he wanted to do that, he said he needed to take control of the party structure because he wanted to be Vice- President to Atiku Abubakar in 2007. I said but how is that possible since Atiku is not a member of our party, Alliance for Democracy (AD)? He said I shouldn’t worry about that and should just cooperate with him. As a principled person, I refused and that was the genesis of my trouble with him. I believed that we should face governance and that the founders of the party should continue to run the party. As a loyal party member, did you actually warn the party leaders about this? Although I warned them at the time but of course, the elders then were happy to go along with Tinubu until when their eyes were opened later. I think some of the elders in AD at that time also became compromised. But later, these elders that took sides with Tinubu realised that the party had been hijacked by Tinubu. There is also this claim that you are too stubborn and unyielding. How will you respond to that? No. I don’t think I am stubborn or rigid. I think I am principled. Are you too tough to handle? Why won’t I be tough? I am only tough on matters of principles and when it comes to integrity, I will be tough when it is something that has to do with honesty. I can’t compromise honesty, integrity and principle and my family name. There is this claim that you resigned but some members of the Lagos state House of Assembly said that you were impeached? I don’t think they know what they are saying. The records are there. Actually, I resigned. What happened was it got to a stage where it was obvious that Tinubu was hell bent on destroying me, not only my reputation but my political career and members of my family said no, you have to resign. This was on December 15, 2002. So, I wrote my letter of resignation to the then Speaker of the House of Assembly in Lagos State, Olorunimbe Mamora because Tinubu was away at that time and I understand he had given instructions to the House that they should impeach me before he got back but for some reason or the other, the House too was a bit hesitant about the impeachment but then I understand that money came to play and at that point my family just said ”look, what are you fighting for? The party you are fighting for doesn’ t even appreciate what you are trying to do, just leave the place for them. So, I resigned on December 16, 2002. I wrote the letter to the speaker of the House because Tinubu was not around. Then Tinubu came back and said I had not resigned. As one of the leaders of Afenifere, are you not worried about the polarisation in the organisation? One is led by Pa Reuben Fasoranti and the other faction is led by Senator Ayo Fasanmi. We also have the Afenifere Renewal Group. Why do you think it is difficult for these factions to come together and speak with one voice in the interest of the Yorubas? First of all, the group led by Ayo Fasanmi are not working for the interest of the Yorubas as far as I am concerned. They are only after the interest of Bola Tinubu because he is the one who formed them and so they are working for his interest alone. So, the question of working together can hardly arise when one group is working for the interest of the Yoruba and the other is working for the interest of one man. To me, the Fasanmi faction is not Afenifere, the real Afenifere is the one being led by Pa Reuben Fasoranti. Afenifere was formed from Egbe Omo Oduduwa. My late father was the first President of the Egbe Omo Oduduwa and Chief Obafemi Awolowo was the Secretary. Egbe Omo Oduduwa was formed in my father’s house in London. They then brought it to Nigeria and it was at a meeting of the Egbe Omo Oduduwa that Akinloye said ‘ What shall we call this group to make it appeal to the masses, we can’t call it Egbe Omo Oduduwa? He said why don’t we call it Afenifere and that was how Afenifere began. Afenifere was the precursor of the Action Group (AG). What led to the split of Afenifere? What led to the split of Afenifere is Bola Tinubu’s presidential ambition. He wants to be President of Nigeria and he didn’t see how he could achieve that under the Afenifere as it was because Afenifere has a very strict rule of operations. They don’t just make anybody anything. They study you for years and see how you behave before they even let you go for councilor. And you will see that in the old Western region because of that pattern, we had the best government in Nigeria at that time. We had competent people, not people who came with money that was either stolen or from dealing in drugs and from there came into governance. That is not possible under Afenifere and Tinubu knows that. There are reports that he is nursing presidential in 2013, do you think the Northerners will allow him? Well, everybody is free to have whatever ambition they want to. But on the issue of whether the Northerners will allow him, I cannot tell. Anything is possible in Nigeria.