Andrew Adaze Emwanta is a constitutional lawyer and law teacher with the University of Calabar. In this interview with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO, Emwanta spoke on the crisis in the Edo House of Assembly and why the National Assembly and Adams Oshiomhole, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, should give peace a chance in the state. Excerpts: The way things are going in Edo State House of Assembly, don’t you think the odd is against Gov. Godwin Obaseki? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I don’t think the odd will be against somebody who decided to obey the law. The constitution is very clear on the role of the governor as far as the issue of proclamation is concerned. Section 105 says the governor can issue that proclamation for the first session of the House of Assembly which the man has done. So, what happens thereafter is the business of the House and of course on June 17, the House was inaugurated some members were not present. After that time, the ones that were not present have refused to come for their inauguration. So, the governor, as a law abiding person, cannot afford to issue a proclamation for the second time. There is no precedent in law or in Nigeria known to law where, after issuing a proclamation, the governor will do it for the second time. Remember in 2015 when the issue came up at the National Assembly, members of the Senate who were not around when the inauguration took place came back subsequently in batches for their inauguration. The President did not issue a fresh proclamation. So, there is no precedent that says the governor, having issued a proclamation because somebody who feels he is the godfather of Edo State gives a directive. Of course, the rule of law demands that we should respect constituted authority. This matter is in court and the governor cannot afford to disobey that court order asking all parties to stay action until the final determination of this matter. So, I think the governor is in order and I don’t think there is any dire consequences, though there are issues that are political. But, when the time comes, it is Edo people that will decide. How do you see the tension being created in the state as a result of the situation? I think it is the National Assembly and some political forces in Abuja who are from this state that are creating what I will call a storm in a tea cup. This thing is simple; some persons went to Abuja and said the issue of inauguration was not properly done. These same people went to court on June 25. They went to court and because their injunction was refused, one was earlier issued against them they are now trying to create tension in this state. They should remember that there was a similar crisis in the Western Region which snowballed into the crisis that engulfed that republic, I mean the First Republic. Funny enough, this present Edo State was part of the old Western Region, which later became Mid West. This snowballed into Mid West from Western Regional politics. We should realise too that the people who are in Abuja, elected to represent the people in Benin City at the Edo State House of Assembly. The people themselves at the appropriate time will speak against this act of nonchalance, being an act of political truancy, if you have been elected into office because of political reasons you have refused to come for your swearing in. This thing is a straight forward matter. While you are in court, you can still be having your activities as a lawmaker, nobody is preventing them. There is no injunction preventing them. I don’t think there is a crisis.  It is the National Assembly interference that is making us see it on a different perspective. Otherwise, the National Assembly, what they are relying on, which is Section 11 of the constitution does not even allow them because Edo State is not in a war situation, Sub-section 3 of that section talks about when the Federation is at war then Sub 4 says when the House of Assembly cannot carry out its functions, namely, it cannot seat and where for instance it cannot transact its business. Since the House was inaugurated we have seen commissioners cleared. We have seen the House dissolved itself into committees. The Speaker has appointed committees. They are carrying out their oversight functions. A particular bill before them has gotten to the stage of committee. It has gone through first and second reading. So, nobody can hold this state to ransom and more importantly, Section 102 says even with a vacancy like this, the House of Assembly can still carry out its functions and I do not expect Mr. President to allow Edo State to fall into the kind of crisis we had in the old Western Region because ultimately the crisis in the North East is enough wahala for us. Just recently, five Pastors of the Redeemed Christian Church of God were reportedly kidnapped. Before that time, Rev. Fathers protested over the assassination of their members by Fulani herdsmen. The country is already having too many crises. We should not allow this Edo State crisis to be one of those crises. Unfortunately, the APC National Chairman is from this state. We expect him not to be one of the disputants. He should be a peace builder. At his level, he should see himself, being a former governor, as an elder statesman. When Oyegun was the National Chairman, he was a governor. Did Oyegun disturb him the way he is disturbing this present governor. It is a big question? The members-elect are insisting that the House of Assembly was inaugurated in the night and that they cannot subscribe to oath of office under such a House. What is your take on that? For me, it is an allegation that only the court can bring out the true state of affairs, because, we have heard stories that it was 3 pm (in the afternoon). Some say it was 5 pm (in the evening). Ohters say it was 6 pm, and also some say 7 pm. It is only when this matter goes to court and as a lawyer, I know that records of Parliament can only be found in the votes and proceedings of a particular legislative sitting. So, when that document is presented from the Parliamentary arm, which I believe should by now  be part of the evidence before the court, it is for the court to decide. It is not something that is open to market square analysis. It is only the court, because, the power to interpret the law when there is a dispute rests squarely on the Judiciary. So, whatever we say will just be based on conjecture. It is just like this presidential election matter. Atiku did not take it to the National Assembly. He took it to the court. So, the court is looking at that particular issue within the confines of the Electoral Act. So, when we have facts like this, it is not for us to start doing conjectures. Let us allow the court, which is the last hope of the common man, to decision this matter. Of course, it is very clear that all the moves made to resolve this issue through some other political means have failed. The Senate President, even while making his statement before the resolution was finally passed, said that all the attempts to resolve this matter through other means had failed and that he was constrained for the Senate to take that resolution which they did. But, unfortunately, that resolution was in defiance of a court order restraining the National Assembly from looking into a matter that is already subjudice. What is the position of the constitution on members-elect who refused to assume office? The constitution is very clear. The Speaker, after 60 days, can declare their seats vacant because they have refused to take up their seats. Section 108 has specific provisions. When you look at the act of not coming for legislative sittings, the position of the law is very clear that member’s seat can be declared vacant. The House was inaugurated on June 17, 2019. So, 60 days from that day will expire on August 17. So, if by August 17, these members refuse to come and take up their seats, the Speaker will be right constitutionally to declare their seats vacant, because the people who have elected them cannot be talking of recall at this stage since they are not yet members of the House of Assembly. So, the issue of recall will not arise. But, the Speaker can declare their seats vacant. I remember during the time of Benson Alegbe as Speaker of Bendel State. Of course, the issue of vacancy came up. It went to court. A member that refuses to sit for that statutory period within one year, Alegbe vs Oloyo, it is a matter that, of course, went up to the Supreme Court and of course, the member lost. What is the way forward? I think for us as Edo people, we are still asking our brothers in Abuja that it was not Abuja we sent them to. We sent them to represent us and not to any godfather’s residence in Abuja, or to the National Assembly. If they have grievances which they have already taken to court because, they also have matter which they filed at High Court 5. We should believe in the Judiciary because it is the last hope of the common man. In the mean time, just like the way the likes of Remi Tinubu and the others, who were not at the inauguration came back for them to be inaugurated and be sworn in as members, I think by now, they should be back and allow the court to do their job and not the National Assembly. I believe when they come back, whatever ideas they have, they can contribute. Whatever intentions they have, even the issue of removing the Speaker that they feel they are not comfortable with, there is even a procedure for that. So, politically, we expect them to come home and allow peace to reign. They should give peace a chance. For Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the APC, we are begging him. Recently he was saying something like he had a meeting with Security Chiefs, the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. As a father, because, having occupied the office of the governors for eight years, at this stage, he should be a peace builder. He should not be seen as one of the disputants in this issue.  Godfatherism is what he fought against and he should tow that path of saying he will not accept the role of godfather. But, unfortunately, he is already playing the role of godfather that he once condemned. We ask him to give peace a chance so that he will not, as a National Chairman, create crisis in a state where he once served as governor. I expect members of his party to see him as a leader. Just recently the Director General of the APC Progressive Governor’s Forum actually said that if the National Chairman, who as chairman of the National Working Committee (NWC) of their party should be the one resolving the dispute as a disputant, who will now resolve such a dispute, because, even the President is tired of this crisis in Edo. That is why the President has called for a truce. Unfortunately, the truce for us as lawyers, suggests that while you are in court, give peace a chance. There are those who say the House of Assembly is being used as a leeway by the National Assembly to settle scores with Obaseki? I think if you say the House of Assembly, you are referring to those 12 lawmakers in Abuja, because, these Abuja based lawmakers have some persons funding them. Recently, the younger brother to the former governor actually came all out to say that money is not their problem. It is money that is pursuing them and that the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Senate President have been given marching orders by his elder brother on what to do. I don’t know how true is that statement. So, my admonition to our lawmakers-elect in Abuja is that they should come home because it is an Edo matter. It is not an Abuja matter. This matter can best be resolved if they come back to occupy the seats Edo people have given them. First of all, they have to go and do their assets declarations. Could it be that they are afraid to declare their assets? They should do what is right and take up their seats. Otherwise, the Speaker by law, can activate the process of declaring their seats vacant, which we don’t want, because, we need our 24 members to be intact to take this state to the next level. They should not allow godfatherism to dictate the will of the people because the constitution says sovereignty belongs to the people of Nigeria from whom government derives her power and authority. Are you also among those who believe that this crisis is geared towards stopping Governor Obaseki’s second term ambition? Yes, obviously. When you look at the political configuration, there is so much pressure for the governor not to be given a ticket by a group known as the Edo People’s Movement, which has a former Attorney General of this state, Henry Idahagbon, as its chairman. But, we actually know that the person behind the scene is our former governor, Adams Oshiomhole. When you look at the body language of members of that group, they take directions and directives from him. So, we are asking, even if they now say they don’t  want the governor, there is a procedure for all these things. The elections that we are having this year are in Bayelsa and Kogi, not in Edo State. So, what is the idea of now overheating the polity? The former governor said he will decide who becomes Speaker or sweeper in the State House of Assembly. I mean, that is not just right. When he was the governor of this state, people did not lord it over him. So, I think the real issue is about 2020 governorship election. I don’t think who becomes the Speaker will affect Adams Oshiomhole because the Speakership is not zoned to Edo North. It is zoned to Edo Central. Before now, we used to have a situation where the thing was skewed to favour a particular Senatorial District. Edo Central has never had the opportunity of enjoying the office of the Speaker for this long. So, this is the first time we are having proper zoning arrangement; the governor from Edo South, the Deputy Governor from Edo North, the Speaker from Edo Central and we want the system to remain. It should be known for the political tripod Edo has been known for since its creation in 1991. So, I ask the various interest groups within the APC to realise one thing, they cannot be greater than the people of Edo State. What Edo people have been saying is that we should allow peace. If this matter is in court, let us allow the Judiciary to decide this matter, because, that is based on the doctrine of Separation of Power. Unfortunately, the National Assembly has not helped matters. Knowing full well that this is a political matter, they ought not to have dabbled into it. They should have allowed the Judiciary to resolve this matter amicably. But for 2020, when the time comes, Edo people will decide, because, they have the final say on who becomes their governor from November 2020.