ABUJA – Indications emerged on Friday that the university system may be once again grounded indefinitely beginning from Monday. Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered that two nonacademic staff unions, the Non Academic Staff Union of Universities and Educational institutions (NASU) and the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), are waiting for further directives from the Joint Action Committee (JAC), of the unions to commence the strike. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network They are hinging the strike on alleged poor response from the Federal Government, to meet demands earlier raised for which a 14-day ultimatum to government had elapsed. The unions had penultimate week issued an ultimatum to government to address the issue of Earned Allowances, sacked workers of Staff Schools within the university system. The unions had on August 6 resumed nationwide protest in selected universities across the country. The two unions, in a circular to all the branches after the JAC meeting penultimate Thursday, in Abuja, said that at the expiration of the 14-day ultimatum, if the Federal government failed to address all their grievances, they would be left with no other option than withdrawing their services and shutting down the universities. In the circular to all their branches with the title ‘Notice of Industrial Action,’ which was signed by the Chairman of JAC and President of SSANU, Comrade Samson Ugwoke and the General Secretary of NASU, Comrade Peters Adeyemi, the two unions lamented the nonchalant attitude of the Federal Government towards addressing their grievances and obeying court judgment. The circular read, “This is to inform you that the Joint Action Committee, JAC of NASU and SSANU met today, Thursday 1st August, 2019, to consider the issues which led to the nationwide protest in our various branches, viz, Payment of Earned Allowances, University Staff Schools matter, Renegotiation of 2009 FGN/Unions Agreement among others. “After extensive deliberations, JAC further observed that: “No date has been rescheduled by the President of the Senate, His Excellency, Senator Ahmed Lawan for the meeting with the leadership of JAC national. “The meeting earlier scheduled by the Federal Ministry of Education with the leadership of JAC national has been rescheduled for Wednesday, August 7, 2019 with no reason(s) stated. “From the foregoing, JAC national has resolved as follows: