ADO-EKITI – Retired Captain Sunday Adebomi has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to work closely with the traditional rulers in order to end the spate of killings and kidnappings in Nigeria. Adebomi, who is a retired Army Captain in the United States of America Military, also described Buhari’s recent engagement with traditional rulers from various ethnic nationalities as a welcome development. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The security expert, in a chat with journalists in Ado-Ekiti on Sunday, charged members of the public to be vigilant and report any suspicious persons or movement in their community to security agents. The ex US Army chief also called on security operatives, particularly in Ekiti, to step up surveillance and patrol in order to nip the rate of insecurity in the bud. He commended the various efforts of Governor Kayode Fayemi towards stopping criminal activities and called on the people of the state to always support his government. Adebomi, a governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last election in the state, noted that the traditional rulers have great roles to play in securing the nation. He, therefore, advised Nigerians to join hands with Buhari in tackling insecurity in the country, saying that the challenge of kidnapping, herders and farmers clashes, armed banditry and others required collective effort to overcome. The retired US soldier expressed regret over the alleged killing of about 23 people at a funeral ceremony in Borno State last weekend by suspected Boko Haram sect and expressed sadness on the unfortunate incident. He urged Buhari to do more in providing necessary facilities and sophisticated weapons that would be enough to its security personnel to tackle insurgency and Nigerians to be united in a bid to overcome the raging security challenges in the country. He observed with dismay that the various interventions of government at all levels towards solving the challenge of insecurity had yielded little result and called for sincerity in the determination to stem the tide of the menace.