The Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, has expressed concern on the ability of the Electricity Distribution Company, operating in Egbaland to immediately translate the newly commissioned Transmission Facilities in Abeokuta and environs into a positive socioeconomic improvement of the people. Oba Adedotun Gbadebo who was exchanging views with the Managing Director of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company, Engr John Ayodele, during the commissioning of the newly Electricity Facilities in Abeokuta noted that, although Abeokuta was the first to enjoyed electricity network supply in Nigeria since 1904, the supply cables still seemed to be those used more than a century and a half ago. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Alake, therefore, wondered how the State Capital and other parts of Egbaland would benefit from the new sophisticated transmission system. Oba Adedotun Gbadebo commended the efforts of the Federal Government on power generation but raised concern on the strives of Central Authorities not going to waste if the energies released were short-circuited by the apparent inability of DISCOS to get such to ultimate users at home and businesses. The monarch, therefore, advocated for increased synergy between the Transmission Company of Nigeria, which generates power and Distribution Companies which take it to end users, who had been suffering from a sort of disconnect in the value chain of power supply in Nigeria. He appealed to the Managing Director of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company, IBEDC, Engineer John Ayodele, to work hard in translating the new Power Generation facilities in the State Capital to immediate socioeconomic advantages to the residents of Egbaland and Ogun State, while in turn making money for the IBEDC. In his response, Engr John Ayodele, told the Alake that IBEDC had been waiting for Transmission Company on Nigeria (TCN) to show seriousness on adequate and non-epileptic power supply before the IBEDC could invest. Engineer John Ayodele argued that it would be business and economic suicide for the IBEDC to borrow money from banks to fix transformers and installed new cables where it was not absolutely sure of the power to distribute. He however disclosed to the Alake that, now that the TCN had demonstrated that it had capacity to transmit regular supply of energy, IBEDC and other Distribution Companies would invest more and get the energy to homes and businesses. Meanwhile, a Senior Engineer with the Transmission Company of Nigeria, Engr Victor Adewunmi had called on the Distribution Companies to take immediate advantage of the newly commissioned 2X60MVA, 132/33 KV Substation in Kobape, Abeokuta, by investing in new transformers and cables in order to supply power to their numerous customers. Engr Victor Adewunmi, who spoke with newsmen on the side-line of the commissioning, explained that the 2X60 MVA Transformers would generate more than enough energy for Abeokuta and environs such as Odeda Sagamu, Mowe and Ibafo on a daily and regular basis. He, however, pointed out that people in these areas would only enjoy the social and economic advantages of the newly commissioned facility, only if the Electricity Distribution Companies were ready and willing to put more money into supply cables and stepdown transformers.