It was a disappointing short trading week of colossal losses after two days of public holiday as more medium and high cap stocks hit their 52-week, five and 10-year new lows to trade below the 27,000 psychological lines on a widespread pessimism that dipped the negative sentiment on the Nigerian stock exchange.
The three trading sessions of bear run, extended the seventh consecutive weeks of composite index decline to head for two years lowest position as it had broken down another strong support level to test a new low of 26,789.38 bps after touching intra week high of 27,307.60bps on low traded volume.
As the market year to date loss position of 14.33% was as a result of persisted selloffs driven by many reasons ranging from domestic economic and political uncertainties, coupled with the external influence like low yield of bond in the international markets which is a sign of recession after three to four developed economics had recorded slow growth in their GDP meaning any further slide in Gross Domestic Products of these nations will confirm full-blown recession. Just as the trade dispute between the two largest world economy U.S and China lingers.
Back home, despite the recent seeming positive economic data such as the July Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) at 57. 6 points and July inflation rate at 11.08% which came as expected due to stable intervention in the exchange market by CBN, harvest season that strengthen supply to push down prices and the seasonality trend of July being a harvest period that supported the rate decline in history of Nigeria inflation movement.
The nation Q1 GDP of 2.01% was a decline from the 2.38% Q4 2018 level, even as the corporate earnings for half-year had given insight how the economy performed and what the Q2 GDP will look like.
Another concern is the external reserves that hit it two months low at $44.28 billion as a result of the oscillating oil price. Movement Of NSEASI
It was a brief trading period that opened at the midweek on a negative note as the benchmark index lost 0.84% on resumed panic selloffs in all class of stocks due to the looming global recession, and the president statement on forex and food importation.
This trend was sustained on Thursday and Friday when NSE index shed 0.13% and 0.43% respectively as selling pressure continued. This brought the week total lost position to 1.40%, compared to the previous full week’s 1.17% drop.
The aggressive selloffs among the medium and highly capitalised stocks during the period reflected on the market breadth which was negative with decliners exceeding advancers in the ratio of 34:15, despite the seeming rebound of all the interim dividend paying stocks except for Stanbic IBTC that join others stocks like Okomu Oil, UACN, Oando, Unilever, Flourmills, Nestle, Nasaco, Fidelity Bank, Law Union Insurance, ETI, FBNH and Total Nigeria that hits their new 52 weeks low in the week under review.
Just as Dangote Flour and BocGas were the only two companies that made new 52 weeks high in the whole market.
Advancers table for the period as usual were dominated by the low cap stocks and few of interim dividend paying companies while high cap and other stocks topped the losers chart on a negative sentiment and prevailing low liquidity.
The energy behind the week’s performance was weak, despite inching up as shown by Money Flow Index at 14.10 basis points, compared to 13.57bps in the previous week, indicating that funds entered few stocks in the midst of indecision among many traders and investors.
Even as sentiments remained negative, with a sell position at 74% and ‘buy’ volume, 26% on a transaction volume index of 0.45. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network NSEASI Weekly Time Frame
The index action had continued to pullback on bearish trend and negative outlook as volume traded remained low due to dicey investment environment.
The market in 2014, 2015 and 2016 were unpredictable as economic and political uncertainties kept the market in the red for three consecutive years of losses and decline, but many investors and traders that were in the right stocks at the time the market rebounded in 2017 on a massive rally made money, while others missed out.
So, let us keep on gaze on the global and domestic happens as stage by stage buying position is taken in fundamentally sound stocks.
The current chart pattern of NSEASI remain mixed and somewhat despite the Bollinger band giving signal as the index continue to trade on the lower band of the Bollinger and below its 20-Day Moving Average, as Relative Strength Index reads ‘oversold’ at 28.26. But then, Money flow at 14.10 points remains weak. Bearish Sectoral Indices
All the sectoral and other indices were lower for the week, except for the NSE premium index that closed higher by 0.64%, while the NSE Consumer goods led the decliners after shedding 6.6%, followed by the NSE Oil/Gas with 1.9% and next were NSE Industrial, Banking and Insurance with 1.18%, 1.15% and 0.69% respectively.
Transaction activities for the period were down as volume and value traded decline by 32.49% and 12.09% respectively to 726.61 million shares worth N10.46 billion from the previous week 1.08 billion units valued at N12.01 billion.
During the week, the share price of Rak Unity Petroleum Plc and Flourmills Nigeria were adjusted for dividend of 10kobo and N1.20 respectively.
Also within the period under review, Guaranty Trust Bank released its audited half-year result which the gross earnings and bottom line were flat, but declare 30kobo interim dividend for its shareholders whose name will be in the company register before close of business on September 2, 2019.
BocGas and Union Diagnostic were the best-performing stocks for the week, as they topped the advancers’ chart with 9.87% and 9.09% gains respectively to close at N6.12 and N0.24 per share on market forces and sentiment.
On the flip side, Rak Unity Petroleum and UACN lost 25% and 18.18% respectively, closing at N1.39 and N0.39, on selloff and profit taking. Market Outlook
We expect a mixed performance to continue as many unknowns that have the potential of fueling the ongoing volatility ahead of Q2 GDP, developments in the fixed income market, economic policy of the new cabinet, global economic indices and inflows when the 2019 budget is implemented.
However, discerning investors should take advantage of low valuation to buy into interim dividend stocks and other undervalued equities that have strong potential to rebound with the general market.
Also, take into consideration the expected economic reforms as government announces its much-awaited new cabinet, just as plans by the CBN to reduce banks’ participation in government securities is expected to boost private-sector lending to drive economic activities and investment.
Selloffs may persist in highly capitalised stocks due to portfolio restructuring. Hence, overall market performance to remain mixed amidst positive sentiments and negative breadth.
Market players should maintain a cautious outlook due to low confidence, liquidity and the wait for major economic triggers. Hence, we advise investors to trade cautiously in the short-term, with their gaze fixed on blue-chip stocks that are selling more than 40% below their 52 weeks high.
As we look out for a positive catalyst to drive market recovery.
That notwithstanding, we would not overlook the possibility of a bargain-hunting motive supporting positive performance, especially with many fundamentally sound stocks remaining underpriced. With the prices of major blue chips continuing to drop in recent weeks, we expect speculative trading to shape the market’s direction this week, despite the seeming negative outlook. Take Action
The difference between you and others who are not aware of what I am sharing with you is Action. Take action that will transform your life throughout 2019 and beyond by getting the just concluded and life-transforming invest 2019 traders & investors success summit, chart summit, and post-election bulls & bears Home study pack (USB) that you can play on your phone, Laptop and Television set.
The events were a successful, insightful and educative outing that not only offered direction as to where investors should look for profitable trade in 2019 and beyond, insight into industries, sectors, and companies to seek worthwhile returns. What stocks should you buy? Grab the pack for the 10 Golden Stocks with the possibility of offering in 2019 multiples of what broader stocks do, coming out of this market correction environment. Don’t sit on the Fence call or text Stock to 08028164085, 08032055467, 08111811223 now.