LAGOS – The Lagos State Police Command has arrested a 24 –Year- Old woman for detaining a boy in a dog Kennel in Lagos for allegedly drinking liquor drink from her refrigerator. The female suspect, Onyinye Mbadike, a resident of No. 7 Trimnell Street, Aguda was nabbed by a team of the Command’s Gender unit for assault and child abuse. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, Onyinye was arrested following a viral video on the social media showing the suspect torturing the victim one Chibike Eziamaka, 10-year- old of same address. She was arrested in August 14, 2019 by detectives from the Gender Unit, Command’s Headquarters Ikeja. Bala said:”The video which showed the suspect locking the boy up in a dog’s kennel, sharing space with dogs was widely condemned by well meaning Nigerians. “The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Zubairu Muazu, then ordered the Gender Unit of the Command to identify the woman in the video, rescue the child and make the suspect face the full weight of the law. “Domestic and Sexual Response Team (DSVRT), Alausa Ikeja also added its voice to the call for investigation with a petition addressed to the Commissioner of Police to that effect. “She was however arrested by the Gender Unit who traced her to Chumpe Liquor Store, Surulere and her residence at Aguda. “The suspect admitted that she is the one on the viral video flogging the child with belt, but she denied locking the survivor in a cage with dogs. That she only locked him in an empty dog kennel where bags are kept. “She claimed to have locked up the boy for few hours before bringing him out. She alleged that the boy took a hot drink in their refrigerator and was misbehaving. That the suspect smashed the side mirror of her Toyota Camry with stone which made her to detained him in the dog kennel. “Further investigation revealed that the survivor lost his parents and was brought to Lagos in 2012 from Anambra State by the mother of the suspect along with his two siblings. The suspect and the survivor are cousins. The suspect’s mother is the elder sister of the survivor’s father. “The 10- year-old boy who was rescued has been taken to a secured shelter. “While reiterating its commitment towards protecting the rights of children and other vulnerable members of the society from all forms of violence and abuses, the Commissioner of Police, CP Muazu said the suspect will be charged to Court soon.”Elkana said.