Lagos – Emirates Airlines has said that foreign carriers operating flights into Nigeria are offering the nation’s travelling public greater choice, and also supporting the growth of tourism and trade in the country. The airline also debunked the claim that it was receiving government subsidies, which enabled it to perpetuate “unfair competition.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network These were contained in a statement issued yesterday in Lagos by the media consultant to the carrier on behalf of the airline in its reference to Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), who claimed that the airline was operating twice daily to and from Abuja Airport. The statement insisted that operations of international carriers were crucial to the tourism and trade sectors of the country, stressing that since it commenced flight operations into Lagos in 2004, it had remained consistent and committed to the country’s market. The statement declared that its second flight to Abuja was only for the ongoing annual hajj operations to Saudi Arabia, which started on July 27 and would run through August 22, 2019. The statement said: “Emirates would like to clarify that we have not increased scheduled flight services to Abuja or Lagos. We had only operated extra flights to Abuja and Lagos for a very limited period, for the sole purpose of serving Nigerian pilgrims traveling to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for Hajj. “International carriers operating in Nigeria offer a greater choice for consumers, and are also crucial to supporting Nigerian tourism and trade. Emirates first started operations to Lagos in 2004, and we have since remained committed to Nigeria. “During this time, we have helped facilitate trade between Nigeria and other international markets, and provided travellers coming into, or travelling from, Nigeria the option of enjoying the Emirates experience.” On the claim that the airline receives government subsidies, which led to unfair competition, Emirates declared that the allegation was unfounded. It said its management had repeatedly debunked the claim, stressing that it had regularly audited its financial reports for the past 20 years and available on its website. The airline pointed out that its operations had always been run on a commercial basis and attributed its successes to its consistency to its customers, which it offered the “best possible services, while closely watching our costs so that we can return a profit to our shareholder.”