LAGOS – The federal government through the Sports Ministry has abandoned D’Tigers and D’Tigress, the men and women national basketball teams respectively. The two teams have taken part in several international tournaments with no any financial assistance from the federal government via the sports ministry. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network This is against the backdrop that funds are budgeted for these national teams annually, but it will suffice to note that basketball has been denied such funds. As at now, D’Tigress are taking part in the Afrobasket championship, which serve as the qualifying tournament for the 20120 Olympics, without any financial assistance. The team qualified for the semi-final of the tournament on Thursday after powering past DR Congo 79-46. In the same vein, D’Tigers arrived Lagos on Monday from the USA for their final phase of their preparation for the FIBA World Cup tipping off August 31, 2019 in China without any financial assistance. We learnt on good authority Thursday during team’s first training session in Lagos that the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) President, Musa Kida, is personally shouldering the teams’ financial responsibilities. The 15 D’Tigers players in Lagos training camp are accommodated at the Eko Hotel and Suits, their feeding and all logistics allowances are at the instance of Kida. Same goes for the D’Tigress in Senegal. “This cannot continue,” lamented Coach Andrew Isokpehi, one of the team’s backroom staff. “The government cannot just abdicate its responsibility to a single person. These are national teams, they belong to the country, they are carrying the flag of the country and not the flag of individuals. What Kida has committed to these teams since he came on board in the last two years is huge. “We cannot continue to keep quiet,” he continued after the team’s first training in Lagos. “You know what it cost to accommodate 15 players at Eko Hotel. The government has to come to the aid of the BBF.” Efforts to get Kida to comment proved abortive. His first Vice president, Babs Ogunade and Col Sam Ahmedu (retd) are with the women’s team in Dakar, Senegal.