The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has said that Nigeria’s insurance industry would be able to retain a chunk of business arising from the oil and gas industry only when companies underwriting that portfolio are well capitalised. The Commission also noted that the reason oil and gas insurance businesses have been ceded abroad is largely due to low capacity which has culminated to the inability of companies to retain the risks accrued from that sector. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mr Pius Agboola, Director, Policy and Regulation at NAICOM in his paper presentation entitled; ‘Recapitalisation, Road Map, Implementation and Benefits Increase in Retention Capacity and Conservation of Foreign Exchange Earnings’ contended: “the liquidity position of some of the underwriters is very bad. This is because, heavy investment are made on fixed assets like building and land which are impacting on their ability to meet current obligations as they fall due. “The capital increase will thus make the company liquid to meet their obligations. Considering the high population and developing industrial/ commercial sector, he said, the potential for insurance business is very high,” he stressed. According to him, the influx of foreign investors to the industry is evidence of insurance potentials which has prompted the likes of Prudential Africa, Axa Mansard, Allianz Group, Old Mutual who have already taken position in the country to come, adding that every system at the stage of early growth requires high capital for exploration of the sector for research, innovation and personnel development. “The emergence of holding companies and Conglomerates requires huge amount of capital for its operations. The funds available in insurance business, short, medium and long term funds facilitates establishment of holding companies and conglomerates. “The capital increase will provide funds for such business strategy in which some of the underwriters have been approaching the Commission for approval. There is no doubt; consolidation would be of greater benefit for the insurance sector,” he said. Mr Agboola said that the National Insurance Commission has the primary responsibility for regulating insurance business in Nigeria and is collaborating with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) to ensure compliance with relevant provisions of the Nigeria Oil & Gas Industry Content Development Act 2010 and other laws relating to insurance. He stressed that the circular through which the recapitalisation of the companies was announced on May 20 by the commission applies to all insurance and reinsurance companies other than Takaful operators and Micro-insurance companies. He said: “The new minimum paid-up share capital requirements shall take effect from the commencement date of this Circular for new applications while existing insurance and reinsurance companies shall be required to fully comply not later than June 30, 2020. “The provision in respect of requirement of statutory deposit as stipulated in Part III, Section 10 of the Insurance Act 2003 shall apply on the effective date of commencement of this Circular. All Insurance and Reinsurance companies are required to ensure strict compliance with this Circular. The commencement date of this Circular shall be May 20, 2019.” “The definition of minimum paid-up share capital shall be referred and construed as those stipulated in Part III, Section 9 of the Insurance Act 2003. It shall be absolute paid-up share capital, as distinct from solvency capital / capital fund/ capital base”, he noted.