LAGOS – Few days after the former two-time governor of Ogun State, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, launched his book, titled, ‘Battlelines: Adventures in Journalisn and Politics’, the Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee on the 2014 National Conference, Senator Femi Okurounmu, came out heavy on the All Progressives Congress, APC, chieftain, calling him a liar, traitor and a double-faced man. The two elder statesmen are from the same state, and no one would have thought they would be engaged in what has been described as an unfortunate and unnecessary media and legal battle by some concerned Yoruba leaders. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Though, Osoba had earlier in his book said Okurounmu had no knowledge about his (Osoba) ordeal in the hands of the military during the struggle for the June 12 mandate, as he (Okurounmu) was not an original member of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO). In an interview, Okorounmu described Osoba as an unfaithful apostle of the June 12 struggle, saying, “Those who know Osoba know that he has always been a double-faced politician. One face, he will want people to see him as a progressive, on the other face, he is working with the security forces. Osoba has always been an agent of the security forces.” Okurounmu also alleged that Osoba was arrested not because of the June 12 struggles, but because he was a spy. “He has one leg in the military and the other leg in the progressives’ camp. If he has never been told that, I am telling you now. So, when he narrated what he went through in his book, of course, for anybody who is a double agent, such person will get into trouble. “So, he got into trouble in the early stage of the annulment of June 12 because he has been a close collaborator with Ibrahim Babangida who annulled the election. It was Babangida that sponsored Osoba’s governorship in Ogun State in 1992. “So, we all know that Osoba was a double agent. While being a close associate of Babangida, he was now pretending to be supporting MKO Abiola. That was what got him into trouble with the military,” Okurounmu alleged. Osoba in his response to the allegations, described the senator as “a frustrated and unfulfilled politician who failed in his chosen profession.” Okurounmu had also in the interview, alleged that, “when Abiola’s election was annulled and everybody thought it will be a short struggle for Abiola to reclaim his mandate, Osoba pretended to be with us in that struggle so that he can also benefit if Abiola eventually became President. “That pretense of being with us is what got him into trouble and he got detained. In fact, people like Gani Fawehinmi had to go and fight for him in court. But as soon as he realised that the struggle will not be a brief one and the military are not prepared to handover to Abiola, he abandoned the struggle. “When the late Sani Abacha formed his five political parties, we in Afenifere decided that we will not participate in any of the five parties. Osoba was present when we took that decision but as soon as we left the place, he decamped and took his followers and they all went and joined Abacha’s transition. “So, Osoba participated fully in Abacha’s transition in all the elections conducted from ward to local government level, Osoba’s men participated. So, he was not part of the NADECO struggle.” Osoba, however, insisted that the attacks on him by Okurounmu, was due to envy. He said he was not going to descend into using “uncouth, insulting and gutter languages like Senator Okurounmu did by referring to me as a traitor, a security agent and a double dealer,” he said. According to the former governor, Okurounmu’s relentless attacks on him are out of jealousy and the major factor is envy and wickedness. “Yoruba language is highly proverbial and Yoruba will describe Okurounmu’s situation as somebody suffering from a proverb that says, ‘when you are envious, you carry that burden almost forever and an envious character cannot easily say the reason why he is envious, particularly if God has been too kind and generous to the person he is envious of ’. That is the situation between me and Okurounmu.” Speaking on Okurounmu’s claim that he collaborated with the government of Abacha, while claiming to be a member of the NADECO, Osoba appealed to the spirits of all those who died in the June 12, 1993 struggle to forgive Okurounmu. He said the statement would make leaders of Afenifere who paid the supreme price for the struggle to turn in their graves. “My answer to that is I pray to God in heaven and our heroes, many who died in the course of the struggle, particularly those unsung, too many people that suffered that are unsung. “But I will be specific with our leaders that wherever they are in heaven, I appeal to them to forgive Okurounmu at 80, because insinuation that the military government was after me because I was an agent, is false. “Sergeant Rogers was categorical when he was cross-examined by Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, a renowned authority in the Law of Evidence who was then the Attorney General of Lagos State. He mentioned names of those of us who were marked down and they were instructed to assassinate,” he added. On the allegation that his governorship election in the botched Third Republic was funded by Babangida, Osoba, who described Okurounmu as a poor student of history, said he needed no money from the then military junta as the two registered political parties, Social Democratic Party (SDP) and National Republican Convention (NRC) were fully funded by the military government. Okurounmu, on his part, maintained that, “Osoba is a liar and traitor. He tells lie and wants to distort history because he knows he has betrayed Nigerians, he has betrayed the progressives cause and the Yoruba people. I believe that anybody who participated in Abacha’s transition betrayed Abiola. It is as simple as that. So for a traitor, he is just trying to justify his treacherous actions and throw blames on other people. Osoba is a traitor.” However, the veteran journalist has decided to take a legal action against by dragging him to court for alleged libel. Osoba, through his lawyer, Wole Olanipekun (SAN), demanded a sum of N3 billion as damages for the said libelous publications and also gave a 14-day ultimatum for Okurounmu to comply with his demands. In a July 23 letter addressed to Okurounmu, which was made available to Daily Independent, Osoba accused the Afenifere chieftain of making libelous statements against him in two national newspapers. In the letter, Olanipekun declared that the words employed by the Okurounmu in defaming his client were weighty and far-reaching. He, therefore, demanded a retraction of the said interviews and a public apology to be published on the front pages of seven consecutive editions of the concerned newspapers. The Senator, has, however, maintained that he would not respond to Osoba’s demands as he has resolved not to join issues with him again on the pages of newspapers. According to Okurounmu, “Why do I need to be answering him? I don’t want to join any issues with him again in the newspapers. He said I am envious of him, I don’t know what he has that I am envious of.” When asked if he will opt for out of court settlement, Okurounmu said “I don’t have any comment right now”. Also, an aide of Okurounmu however, disclosed that his principal might also take legal action against Osoba for the unprintable words used against him in his interview. In a bid to bring an end to the continued jabbing between the duo, concerned Yoruba leaders have started making moves to mediate in the rift. Speaking with Daily Independent, a prominent Yoruba leader who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said arrangements have been made to reconcile both men, as their altercations are not good for the Yoruba nation. He said he is confident that the matter would not get to the court. “A committee has been set up by concerned elders to reconcile both men. The committee will first visit them individually and after that, arrange a meeting where both men will meet. The matter will not get to the court,” he said. On its part, Afenifere described the libel suit filed by Osoba against Okorounmu as unfortunate, noting that the two men belonged to the same family and should not engage in a legal battle. Afenifere’s spokesman, Yinka Odumakin, expressed the hope that the issue would be resolved amicably, noting that the group would prevail on the two Egba elders to dialogue. According to him, “I don’t think he (Osoba) should have taken it to the level of filing a libel suit; I believe that must have been done in the heat of passion. Two of them are Egba chiefs. I am sure somewhere down the line, there would be an amicable resolution of the issue. They are in the same political family but in different wings, but we would always call for a peaceful resolution. “What concerns the zone now in the face of insecurity and other critical challenges is bigger than acrimonies. There is no need to fight over what happened more than two decades ago,” Odumakin added. Similarly, the Secretary General of the Yoruba Council of Elders, Kunle Olajide, described the libel suit as an unfortunate development, saying, “It is very unfortunate that this matter has to go to court but we will talk to them and wade in for them to bury the hatchets.”