Lagos State is the smallest state in Nigeria by landmass with an approximate size of 3,345 square kilometers. Notwithstanding the size, the state is divided into 20 Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas. These divisions were borne out of the need to bring governance to the people at the grassroots. Each of these local government areas is squeezed into five administrative units – Ikeja, Badagry, Ikorodu, Lagos (Eko) and Epe popularly known as IBILE. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In early September 2018, it was rumoured in social and traditional media outlets that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the subtle godfather cum kingmaker of Lagos politics, has withdrawn his support for the second term bid of the then governor, Akinwunmi Ambode. Signals that there was a possible rift between the former governor and Tinubu emerged when more than 50 council chairmen in Lagos, who were loyal to Tinubu, pledged their support to Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the incumbent governor, who was a former Commissioner for Commerce and Industry in the state and the Managing Director/CEO of the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC). Tinubu gave a glimpse of the fallout between himself and Ambode when he noted that Ambode had deviated from the developmental blueprint originally designed for Lagos State and replaced it with ad-hoc schemes that were materially inferior in quality and contravened the spirit of progressive government in the state. Tinubu’s withdrawal of support for the second term ambition of Ambode, an illustrious son of Epe Local Government Area in Lagos East Senatorial District, was viewed as a slap in the face of the people of that local government. Epe town has the largest concentration of voters in the Epe administrative division and it is the local government with the most active voters. This is the second time Epe would be denied the opportunity of producing a governor that serves the constitutionally established eight years of two terms without any form of external disruption. The first was in 1992 when Sir Michael Agbolade Otedola (deceased), an indigene of Epe (the father of the oil billionaire, Femi Otedola) was elected as the governor of Lagos State on the platform of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC), a political party established by the military government of General Ibrahim Babangida. By November 1993, Otedola’s administration was truncated by the emergence of the late General Sani Abacha, who ousted the Interim National Government (ING) headed by Chief Earnest Shonekan, to whom General Ibrahim Babangida handed over power. The same trend played out with Ambode who suffered a woeful defeat at the primaries after his relationship with Tinubu went sour. Ambode’s only victory during the governorship primaries came from his hometown of Epe. Chairman of the Lagos State Chapter of the APC, Mr. Tunde Balogun, on October 1, 2018, declared Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu as the winner of the party’s governorship primary. Balogun declared that Sanwo-Olu polled 970,851 votes to defeat incumbent Governor Akinwunmi Ambode with 72,901 votes. Balogun declared the election free and fair, thanking members of the party for coming out to vote. Earlier in the day, the National Working Committee panel sent from Abuja to oversee the election had declared the primary invalid. The panel, led by Mr. Clement Ebri (a former governor of Cross River State) said the primary could not have held because the modality for its conduct was still being ironed out. But, Balogun insisted that the poll held and it was valid. Given the resentment from the people in Epe, who presently feel cheated in the political process because of the way Ambode was treated by the power brokers in the state, the issue now is how Tinubu and Sanwo-Olu intends to pacify Ambode and Epe people after the 2019 poll. Political watchers had thought that Ambode would be compensated for the troubles with a ministerial appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari. That was not to be. When Governor Sanwo-Olu recently sent a list of commissioner-designates to the House of Assembly for ratification, only one politician, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, made it from Epe. Massive grassroots mobilisation should be deployed to sensitise the Epe people of the need to let by-gone be by-gone and pave way for the developmental blueprint originally designed for Lagos State.