ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has made cash donation of about N4 million to assist  the families of two deceased police officers and to settle medical bills for two others that were injured in the recent police/Shiites clashes in Abuja. Making the donations over the weekend, the FCT Permanent Secretary, Chinyeaka Ohaa, reiterated commitment of the FCT Administration to ensuring a peaceful and secure environment for Abuja residents and tasked them all to be law-abiding. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ohaa explained that the gesture was “Part of the goodwill of the FCT Administration to ensure safety and security of the FCT residents,” saying, “all these are parts of FCTA efforts to ensure that those who sustained injuries while serving their motherland will get proper medication.” According to him, “this happened to our colleagues and brothers while on national duty, so as such, the FCT Administration felt that it is important and expedient to commiserate with them in terms of supporting the families of the deceased and supporting those who were injured for their own medication.” The permanent secretary, who was represented by Director of Security Affairs of the Administration, Adamu Buba Gwary, disclosed that of the two of the police personnel, who were injured, treated at Wuse District Hospital, one was discharged and the other, ASP Bala Ibrahim Magaji, was further treated and discharged at Cedecrest Hospital, Apo. He regretted the incident and prayed God to grant the deceased families the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss and wished the injured persons quick recovery. Magaji, while commenting on the gesture, said: “Honestly, I am shocked. I did not expect it. I did not believe this kind gesture from the FCT Administration. I am moved. It has given me more confidence in the system and the will to do more. It has given me more energy to continue to serve my country in the best professional way I can.” It could be recalled that late DCP Usman Umar and late Precious Owolabi of Channels Television lost their lives during a recent clash by the now proscribed Islamic Movement in Nigeria, also known as Shiites.