ABUJA – Stakeholders in the gemstone and jewelry industry have lamented that over $3billion worth of gemstone is exported yearly from Nigeria unofficially. This development, according to them, has caused huge loss of revenue to government, occasioned largely to laundering. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to them, while the current contribution of the solid minerals sector to Gross Domestic Product is about 0.3per cent, the Nigerian economy does not benefit financially from the lucrative trade in its gemstones. Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, President of Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry(ACCI) , speaking at the opening ceremony of the 2019 African Gems and Jewellery Exhibition and Seminar (AGJES) in Abuja, called on the government to work closely with the organised private sector to reposition and make the gemstone and jewelry sector of the economy a money –spinner. Kayode noted that there is abundance of gemstones in the country but concerted efforts have not been made to harness it for national development. According to him, “As major players in this business, the plight of Nigeria is worrisome. “We have rich array of gemstones in Nigeria but hardly have we mobilised the critical mass needed to maximise the huge potentials in this line of business. “We don’t need to reinvent the wheel; the monumental progress made by other countries can be replicated here with the large deposits diversity, occurrence and the spread in coloured stones in the country. “According to analyst, cut red tourmalines can sell for over $1,000 per carat in similar manner as emmralds, rubies and sapphires which Nigeria is well endowed with, are actually the most monetarily valuable gemstones. Therefore, Nigeria’s coloured stones are well-rated.” Kayode identified the unscrupulous activities of artisanal miners who are mostly foreigners, as one of the major impediments to a sustained growth of the gemstones industry in the country. He, therefore, appealed to the government to take urgent and responsible steps towards formalising the activities of artisanal miners and making them critical contributors to the Gross Domestic Product. He revealed that stakeholders in the sector have established the Gemstone Miners and Marketers Association of Nigeria (GMMAN), the Gemological Institute of Nigeria (GIN), adding that “we are pioneering efforts in the establishment of gemstones warehouse in Abuja.