ABEOKUTA  – A non-government organisation, Aviary Club of Nigeria, Ogun State Chapter, has called on Nigerian leaders to emulate Governor Seyi Makinde’s appointment of a 27-year-old youth as one of his cabinet members. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mr. Gbenga Sowunmi, President of the chapter, who made the call during the inauguration of the chapter’s new executive at June 12 Cultural Centre, Abeokuta, described the appointment as a bold and necessary action worthy of emulation by other state governors. Sowunmi said Nigerian youths across the country, who notably sought elective positions in the last general elections, had indicated preparedness to actively participate in decision making processes of both the federal and local strata of government. He expressed optimism that under 40 years, the Nigerian president in the nearest future,  would be a youth, saying a youthful president would recognise where the shoe pinches regarding the numerous problems bedeviling youths in the country. “Our leaders must realise that the future they speak of about youths is here. Some first world countries at present have youthful presidents. With more opportunities in governance given to youths, I’m sure Nigeria will someday produce a youthful president. Aviary Club is about promoting peace in the society and encouraging young people to become impactful in societal development. We wish other state governors could get us more involved,” he said. On the impact of his organisation in the society, Sowunmi disclosed that the club gave donations to orphanages and prison inmates, adding that a number of under-privileged primary school pupils were also given scholarships. The newly inaugurated president of the club, Mr. Babatunde Elegbede, said non-government organisations and associations should always endeavour to complement government’s efforts towards making the country a better place for all, saying government alone cannot not solve the country’s numerous challenges. He added that the problem of insecurity and unemployment could be resolved through collaborative efforts of all stakeholders in the society, saying the club would continue to contribute its quota to development of society.