TEMIDAYO AKINAUYI, JIDE OYEKUNLE, JOY ANIGBOGU Followers of the embattled leader of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN ), Ibraheem El- Zakzaky has given Nigerian government till Monday to allow their leader seek medical treatment in any country of his choice or resume another round of protest. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network El-Zakyzaky, who arrived Nigeria on Friday at 11:39am aboard Ethiopian airline ET 911 alongside his wife, Zeenah following the excruciating condition and treatment at the hospital Mendata Hospital in India. He had accused of Nigerian government of interference and scuttling the whole process rather than supervision as ordered by the court. Irked by the role played by the government in the medical trip the movement vowed to resume their daily protest to compelling the government to obey court order. The sect also asked the security operatives to disclose the whereabouts of their leader after he was whisked away upon his arrival at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International to an unknown destination. In a press statement signed by the President of the Media Forum of the movement, Ibrahim Musa in Abuja on Friday said that the movement would continue with the struggle to forcing the government in complying with the court order. According to the statement “We vehemently condemn the way the security agents whisked him away upon arrival without allowing the multitude of journalists that were waiting for him for hours to have a chat with him. “We urge the security agency holding him hostage to declare to the public where they are keeping him in the country. The interference of the government raised suspicion that it was planning to kill the Sheikh in India using its international connections. “He insisted that if he would not be allowed to see the doctors that brought him to India, he would rather come back to Nigeria and seek another destination for his treatment. This became clear because of the government’s stance insisting on other doctors than the ones that he was in India to meet.” The sect noted that the Nigerian authorities had shown that they were not comfortable with the leave granted to its leader to seek medical treatment outside the country. IMN pointed out that it was obvious that the Nigerian government had an ulterior motive when it connived with the India government in violating court order and interfered with the treatment. “The Islamic Movement will however continue its struggle to ensure that our leader gets the appropriate medical treatment he deserves as ordered by the Kaduna High Court. “And as we continue with the struggle, we wish to reiterate our call for the Federal government to comply with an earlier Abuja High Court that has freed him since 2016. We believe obedience to this court order will finally solve the crisis that has been lingering since the Zaria genocide of December 2015.” The statement noted that El-Zakyzaky and his wife were forcefully wheeled into a hospital upon their arrival in India without their personal physician that accompanied them from Nigeria. “They were then subjected to physical examination in the absence of the doctors that initially examined them in Nigeria and when they requested for their presence, it was turned down. “Another physician that came from London was also denied access to them despite his familiarity with the Sheikh’s case from Nigeria. It was at this point that Sheikh Zakzaky lost confidence in the whole process and refused any further attempt to have him forcibly treated.” The sect however stated that the hospital compromised its independence and medical ethics for treating without obtaining consent of the patients. The daughter of the Islamic scholar, Shuhailat Ibraheem Zakzaky, who spoke to Saturday INDEPENDENT condemned the action of Nigerian government in making the hospital environment hostile for her father. She called on the government to allow her father to travel to any country of his choice for medical treatment. She berated the Indian authorities to be swayed by the antics of Nigerian government to frustrating the entire process. While calling on government to stop the undue interference and harassment, Shuhailat stated that leaving him unattended in Nigeria would worsen his condition. “Naturally it will worsen his condition but I do hope that they will be wise and allow him to be treated at different destination of his choice and not interfere with the process. It poses a huge danger considering that his condition has been urgent for the months and he has not received proper medicare,” she stated. On his part, the spokesperson of the movement, Abdullahi Musa said that the movement would give the government till Monday to do the needful and allow him to travel for proper medicare. His words: “We want to see what will happen from now till Monday. In the first place, we don’t know the whereabouts of Sheik. The reason Sheik came is because of the attitude of the government to the treatment. So the government should do the right thing and allow the Sheik to go to any place of his choice and get medical care because he is sick,” Musa stated. Meanwhile, the pan Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere has warned that the return of Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky to Nigeria may further aggravate an already tensed situation in the country. Speaking with Saturday INDEPENDENT, Yinka Odumakin, the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary said they are praying the Shiites leader will not die like Mohammed Yusuf, the founder of Boko Haram. According to him, having complained of the inhuman condition he was being subjected to in the Indian hospital, the Federal Government should have allowed Zakzaky to have medical attention at any hospital of his choice while he also bears the medical expenses. “The return of Zakzaky is most unfortunate. It may aggravate tension in the country and we pray he does not die like the daughter is warning. We saw how Yusuf death radicalised Boko Haram. The Federal government should have managed the situation better in the interest of the nation. “He should have been allowed a facility of his choice and at worst be made to be responsible for his bills. “A lot of responsibility is expected from leadership in this kind of situation,” Afenifere said. However, Justice Uhuegbu, a lawyer and activist has said that the Sheik leader’s return will not cause tension as long as security operatives do not re-arrest and taken back to custody. The president of Youth Arise Initiative said that as long as they had not jumped bail and the period for which they were allowed to return to court had not elapsed, they were free to invite their personal doctor to the country to attend to them. He maintained that it was against their fundamental human rights to be denied access to their personal physician while in India. The activist said that the rumour that Department for State Service (DSS) would re-arrest them the moment they stepped into the country could aggravate tension but he said it was a mere rumour because according to him government should be aware of the implication of breaching the court order. He said that all parties must ensure that they kept their part of the agreement so there would not be unnecessary chaos. Uhuegbu said that the couple should be allowed access to their personal physician and wondered why there was controversy between the couple and the Indian government on the issue. He emphasised the need for them to be in sound health condition to answer to the criminal charges against them when they return to court. “The most important thing is that the court has granted them bail on medical grounds for them to attend to their deplorable health condition after which they would be expected to return to court for hearing at the expiration of the period. The couple on their part have not jumped bail. If the time comes and they are not available there must be an affidavit to the effect that they are still undergoing treatment. They have the right to be attended to by their personal doctor. There shouldn’t be much fuss about this issue. I still don’t understand why they were denied access to their personal physician from the report we got from his members. They have a right to access their personal doctor. It is their fundamental human right,” he said.