Since the return of a democratic system in 1999 till date, the name George Akume has continued to ring a bell in the annals of Benue politics. First, he served as a two-term executive governor of the state, and after as a three-term senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, representing the Benue North West Senatorial District at the National Assembly, this totals to a career spanning 20 years and now a minister designate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Senator Akume, a political colossus who holds Benue politics to a jugular, has superintended over the political fortunes and misfortunes of many actors in the state, sending the unfortunate to political oblivion and the fortunate to political stardom. As a political behemoth and an epitome of generosity, Akume’s political dynasty has nested numerous political offspring who have reached the pedestal in the political arena of Benue. One of his benefactors is the former two term governor of the state, Dr. Gabriel Suswam who was prior to becoming the governor a ranking member of the Federal House of Representative and now a Senator. Suswam, who is known to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of Akume’s political dynasty, mastered the game and attempted to create his own dynasty in 2015 but was outsmarted by his godfather. Another of his notable godsons is the current governor of Benue State and former Minister of the Federal Republic, Samuel Ortom who became the governor against all odds through the political wisdom and permutations of his now estranged godfather, Akume. These two governors are believed to have been imposed on the good people of Benue state solely by Akume and his political tink tank group against the popular will of other party members. In spite of this, the “Leader” as he is fondly called by his loyalists, has continued to dominate Benue politics both at the state and national level until his recent dethronement by his estranged godsons Akume’s many blunders, which is of course something that is synonymous with every great man coupled with tick conspiracy within his political family, culminated into his humiliation at the poll where he lost woefully to one of the disciples of his political tutelage. Despite his lose at the poll, political pundits, and of course millions of his supporters still revered and see him as a leader whose exploits remain unmatched in modern day Benue. A Benue born Associate Professor of History and Executive Secretary of the Benue Teaching Service Board (TSB), Prof. Wilfred Uji described Akume as “an all-time great and unbelievable hero and statesman of the Tiv nation.” According to the University don, “In the political history of Benue State, Senator Akume has come to occupy a rare pedestal in the political annals of the state, which no other political figure has achieved, except the late Joseph Tarkaa.” Sen. Akume’s political career according to Uji, has spanned nearly twenty years, as a political godfather who “handpicked and successfully inaugurated two governors of the state namely, Gabriel Suswam, in 2007 and Governor Samuel Ortom, in 2015 respectively. “In doing so, Sen. George Akume has achieved a rare feet, so far, that any political statesman or figure in Tiv political history and Benue State as a whole has been able to unrivaled. “Despite the recent defeat at the National Assembly elections in Benue State, Sen. Akume, still stands predominant, has the rare window of opportunity to exploit, though time is running out, to congratulate Gov. Samuel Ortom for a second term re-election, and thereby exit the political stage as an all-time great and unbelievable hero and statesman of the Tiv nation. “Undoubtedly, Senator Gabriel Suswam and Governor Samuel Ortom are the two greatest trophies of the Akume political legacy and achievements in Benue State that confirms Akume as the greatest patron and political leader of the Tiv people and Benue State as a whole.” Speaking further, Prof. Uji said, “It is a paradox that George Akume will lost a Senatorial seat in Benue State, but it is good to note that Hon. Orker Jev, who defeated him is also a beneficiary of the his prebendary politics.” In terms of infrastructure development of the state, which though, is not the focus of this piece, Prof. Uji regretted that “Akume could have stood out as one of the most monumental in the political development of Benue State considering the flow of both intervention funding by the federal government and international donor organisations. “In the area of ecological funds, Benue State received a fair patronage of millions of dollars funding from the federal government. The ecological projects across Benue State left little to be desired in terms of impact and success.” But in the field of University education, he said, “Akume’s greatest legacy as the governor of the State was the establishment of the College of Health Sciences at the State owned University. “The state government under Akume did not quite understand the dynamics and the working of international development partners as such the state could not optimally exploit and exploit international capital in the development of Benue State.” On his relationship with the former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration, Prof. Uji, said the relationship between Benue State and the federal government at the centre was a “mixture of naivety as well as outright confrontation and hostility.” The aspects of aggression and hostility according to him, were seen in Obasanjo’s government that “invaded and butchered the Tiv people at Zaki Biam and Gbeji in 2003. “In area of naivety was the privatisation of Benue Cement factory, the economic backbone of Benue state, was taken over and controlled by the Fulani Business Class. This has impoverished the Tiv nation and even beyond.” Now, after the career of Akume as the governor of Benue State for eight years, from 2007 to 2019, he has been a Senator of the Federal republic of Nigeria, on a three-term basis, to this, Prof. Uji believed, “Akume has done excellently well in human capital development, but very little in critical infrastructural development of his senatorial district. “Among his worse failures that led to the loss of his Senatorial seat, is his endorsement of the federal government led by President Muhammadu Buhari, who has embarked on the use of state power to grab lands from ethnic nationalities like the Tiv, and enforce a Fulani herdsmen occupation of such lands. “Senator Akume also erred politically when he attempted to change the narrative in support of the Fulani. This was interpreted by the Tiv nation as a betrayal of his own people, he stated.” The Don also posited that despite the short comings of Sen. Akume, he remains one of the outstanding politicians of Benue State who has no national equivalent in the politics of the Tiv nation, perhaps, except Joseph Tarkaa, Senator Gemade, Senator Gabriel Suswam and the least but not the last, Governor Samuel Ortom.” Also extolling the exemplary leadership of Akume is the APC North Central Youth Leader, Terver Aginde who described him as an “institution.” According to Aginde, “Akume is an institution that no Benue politician can be equalled with. He has made a lot of people, including me. He has a heart of gold and is very accommodating. “The man is what the people need as their leader. He is a nationally acceptable politician, a political strategist, a leader Nigerians really loved. For some of whom he has lifted from nowhere in politics, to the national political space. “We know how powerful and respectful he is and how he’s been respected. Only greedy and selfish Benue politicians don’t like his style of politics. He rewards loyalty and hard work and has made millions of us directly or indirectly. We can never get his type till God takes his life,” Aginde noted.