Madinah – Officials of the National Hajj Commission and other Pilgrims’ handlers have decried atrocities of fraudsters in the City of Madinah, Saudi Arabia, saying that they are huge sources of worry causing the commission sleepless nights. This is as the Nigerian Students Union of the University of Madina has waded in with a view to taking steps aimed at preventing further cases of Pilgrims losing their precious Basis Travelling Allowances (BTAs) to unscrupulous elements posing as helpers or agents of bureau de change. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Madinah Coordinator and the acting secretary of NAHCON, Ahmad Maigari, and the head of Education, Enlightenment and Civic Orientation, Umar Bala, expressed their worry in separate chats with journalists in the City of Madinah. Speaking earlier, Ahmad Maigari lamented that the elderly and the unenlightened are the most victims of this syndicated daylight fleecing of money from pilgrims. According to him, “most of these atrocities were not perpetrated in the pilgrims accommodation areas, but around the vicinity of the Haram when the dupes and swindlers suspect a pilgrim on coming out of the Haram cannot figure out the direction of his or her hotel, saying they capitalise on that to lead him or her to where they dupe or seize his or her BTA by force”. Maigari said NAHCON and the management of the hotels accommodating Nigerian Pilgrims have taken measures to ensure that Tukaris (Fraudsters) do not loiter around the hotels, to safeguard the pilgrims’ properties and BTAs. On his part, the Head of Education, Enlightenment and Civic Orientation unit of NAHCON, Umar Bala decried the nonchalant attitude of some state pilgrims welfare boards and agencies towards the wellbeing and comfort of their pilgrims in Madinah, adding that some States send a planeload of their pilgrims without a single official to lead and guide them. Bala pointed out that a state of emergency be declared on the need for aggressive education, enlightenment and sensitisation campaigns to fight the menace of these unscrupulous elements that appear to have constituted themselves into a notorious syndicate that’s out to cheat pilgrims. He said, “presently the Ulamas and other officials on the ground are wholely out to minimise the pains these hoodlums inflict on pilgrims, if not wipe them out completely”. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Students Union of the University of Madinah is said to be taking measures to provide necessary assistance to Nigerian Pilgrims on this year’s Hajj and subsequent Hajj operations in the holy land. The President of the Union, Ustaz Abdul Kabeer Adegbeye, who disclosed this to journalists in Madina, said the Union was concerned about the activities of some miscreants in duping and swindling pilgrims of their BTAs. He lamented that some of these unscrupulous elements charge pilgrims exorbitant fees for fixing of gold-silver teeth, only to pay half or even less than half of the money they collected from the pilgrims to the service providers. Ustaz Abdul-Kabeer said the Nigerian Students in Madinah would continue to do their best in enlightening and guiding the pilgrims aright. He however, called on Hajj authorities in Nigeria to ensure adequate provision of responsible officials who would provide the needed protection and guidance to their pilgrims, especially in Madinah, as his Union provides only complementary assistance in the holy land. He suggested, saying that “alternatively, the students’ services should be engaged, by NAHCON and the students’ respective state governments.” According to him, “only proper education and enlightenment of Pilgrims’ rights in Nigeria, before embarking on the religious journey, would effectively protect them from the snares of these dupes and swindlers.” On the allegation that some students are involved in this racketeering, the students’ leader said the Nigerian Students Union has resolved to take drastic disciplinary measures against any of its members found to be involved in extorting money from the pilgrims. He said the Union has advised its members to avoid involvement in gold-silver teeth fixture for pilgrims or unilateral provision of vehicles to Pilgrims for visits to stipulated sites in Madinah.