Lagos – With two days to the tip off of the 2019 FIBA World Cup in China, D’Tigers have improved in rankings to seventh from eight among the 32 team participating in the tournament. The Nigerian team was ranked eight a fortnight ago. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The improvement in the D’Tigers rankings has to do with them winning the Peak International Tournament where they defeated Poland and Montenegro during the week. FIBA on its website on Wednesday stated that after the third edition of their power rankings, which was a feature of the teams completing their friendly games, Nigeria is now seventh best ranked among the 32 teams at the World Cup. “They are back in the Top 10! Nigeria specialized in comebacks this week, because they came back from -22 against Poland, and from -13 against Montenegro, and from -11 in this Power Rankings, fittingly. They have also defeated Dominican Republic and Canada in the build up to the summit in China, losing only to Canada in the process. Another reminder that the best ever finish by an African team was in 1950, when Egypt won 5th spot,” FIBA stated on Wednesday. Nigeria’s opening day opponent, Russia dropped from 10th last week to 20th on the premise of a 21 points loss to Argentina last week. Russia drop in ranking was also attributed to the non-activities by Nigeria and some other teams Argentina tipped to top the group that has Nigeria, Russia and South Korea also dropped in ranking to eight,  a step below Nigeria. However, its drop in ranking has nothing to do with their performance but because of their star player injury that may affect their performance should he not recover in time for the tournament. Korea is ranked 27th on the back of a 10-game losing streak in FIBA World Cups. Cote d’ Ivore is the least ranked team at 32 and followed by Angola at 31 and Senegal 24, while Tunisia, the African Champion tipped to make a second round is ranked 14th. “Tunisia looking good, about to make the Second Round with the way they have been clicking in the preparation period.”