CALABAR – Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN), the former Chairman, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and former Senate Leader in the 7th National Assembly, refrained from taking a cursory look at the state of affairs in his home state, Cross River, but opined that competence should be the watchword when time comes for Governor Ben Ayade’s successor.
Cornered by some journalists in Calabar, he fielded questions on sundry issues bothering on the state of affairs in Cross River.
Ndoma-Egba said, “On the issue of power rotation, I think we have come to that point. Every zone in the state has tasted power, so I think we should move beyond that now. Where we are now, it is competence that should be the criterion for determining our next level in Cross River.
“There is no time other than now that we require competence for governance,” Ndoma-Egba said.
Since the beginning of the present democratic dispensation, there seems to be an unwritten agreement within the political class that the governorship position should be rotated among the southern, central and northern senatorial districts of the state.
Following this idea, despite dissent from some quarters, Donald Duke from the southern district was in office for two terms from 1999 to 2007.
Liyel Imoke took the turn of the central from then till 2015, when Ben Ayade from the north took over till date. Ayade had promised that power would rotate back to the south after his second term.
Ndoma-Egba, who represented the Central District for three consecutive terms in the Senate until 2015, said the issue of rotation should be completely abandoned.
Giving his views on the recent ministerial appointments and screening in the National Assembly, particularly as it concerns the nominee from Cross River State, Prince Goddy Jedy-Agba, the former Senate Leader said following the performance of JD Agba at his screening in the Senate, it was clear his competence was not in doubt.
On earlier concerns expressed by some persons that Jedy-Agba was not visible in the just concluded 2019 electioneering politics in the state, he said Agba had made a lot of contributions in building the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, so he should not be judged on the basis of visibility in elections, and hoped that such disposition would continue.
“Given his (Agba’s) disposition, we would not have that much problem of running the party because he has a shown a disposition in the past to assist. And I want to believe that the disposition would continue. If you know his temperament, he certainly would not bring the kind of divisiveness that we experienced in the party in the recent past. Undue divisiveness because people insisted they were the governorship candidate.
The Supreme Court had said it again and again that the candidates of parties must emerge from primaries conducted by the National Working Committee of the party. So if you went to Akamkpa and organised people to organise your primaries and you are here insisting that you are a candidate, you are just distracting people,” Ndoma-Egba said.
He added, “When we moved to APC, Jeddy-Agba moved with us. As at that time, the party was owing its staff and the party could not pay the rent which accumulated over a period of time. It was Jeddy-Agba who paid the staff and the rent.
“Besides, Jeddy-Agba gave motorcycles to all the ward chairmen in the state, and I don’t think anybody has ever done that,” the former Senate Leader said.