Dr. Junaid Mohammed, a second republic House of Representatives member, in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on the call for revolution by some Nigerians and other issues. He also bares his mind on the prolonged farmers versus herdsmen crisis. Excerpts: Given the protest by #RevolutionNow protesters last week, do you recommend a revolution as the solution to the country’s problems? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Anybody who is a social science literate will tell you that a revolution is not simply something you just sit down and imagine in your brain that ‘yes, I want to commit a revolution’. But I will refer to some of the scholars of revolution who said that a revolution essentially is a state of the polity, mind, economy and security. Now, you only say you have a revolutionary situation when those who are governing are completely incapable of governing and those who are being governed, like you and me are also refusing to accept the way they are being governed. So, it is a two-way process. Those who are governing prove themselves completely incapable of governing, whether in the area of managing the economy, security, in terms of inter-communal harmony and so on. Those who are governing have run out of ideas, they have failed to bring out the solutions to these problems and they don’t have any alternative in mind which means, we are really at a dead end. Those governing cannot govern; those being governed refused to be governed the old way. In the context of what I just narrated to you, which is from the social sciences, I can tell you that a revolution is not something I recommend. Why can’t you recommend a revolution? I don’t recommend a revolution in Nigeria because of the utmost irresponsibility of the Nigerian elites. The moment you started talking about revolution, the Nigerian elite will start telling you ‘oh my tribe, my religion’ and people will start talking irresponsibly. Nobody is talking of the national entity, the unity of the country. If there is no unity among the people who are revolting, then we are not going to have any revolution. We are going to have anarchy and people killing themselves for no justifiable reasons. Killing people unnecessarily in an anarchic way is something I won’t want to accept. In any revolutionary situation, everything must be in place. One, revolution requires planning, it is not a spontaneous thing that just happens. So, those who are planning a revolution must map out two things. There must be proper planning. There must be total commitment. There must be ideology in place. There must also be media cooperation and collaboration. Also, technology must be in place as well as finance. Now, none of those who are making noise about revolution today has all these except those who are being sponsored from outside Nigeria. I know some of these people are being sponsored outside Nigeria but I won’t mention their names now. The moment they move away from the sponsorship of their masters, they lack stability and they will not be able to do anything. So, all these things are necessary in a true revolution and I have already highlighted what we called a revolutionary situation in the social sciences. How best do you think the crisis between Fulani herdsmen and farmers can be resolved? As far as I am concerned, what is happening in terms of herdsmen versus farmers fight is not something new. It is just being politicised massively now. I want to assure you, there have always been problems between herdsmen and farmers but that cannot be used to justify the kind of situation we have. Let me tell you, at its core, the Fulani herdsmen versus farmers’ fight is a political one and it is being politicised by politicians. That is why you see people who have been living together for over a thousand years in Taraba are now saying that they don’t want to have Fulanis again when in fact, most of the lands belong to the Fulanis. The same thing in Benue. In Nigeria today, there are people who are ready to play politics with the destiny of our people, and the security and national economy. As far as I am concerned, all these are rubbish. If we are ready and determined to live together as a united nation, then we can do so. When we are ready as a people to overthrow the government of the day, then we have to be united and then we work together as a team to overthrow the government. A revolution is not a tea party. We have to be very careful. I am not prepared to condemn any Nigerian but I believe we all have a responsibility to work together for the unity of this country. If we don’t do that, all of us will be destroyed. What do you make of the detention of Omoyele Sowore, the convener of the #RevolutionNow protest? If you come out and say you want a revolution, then you have to be prepared for the consequences, because those who are in power will not allow you to go scot-free. There will be a struggle between those who are in power and those who want to obtain power. And of course, the struggle may be bloody and dangerous but at the end of the day, whoever wins emerges the winner. So, those calling for revolution must understand clearly what they are going into because revolution is not a joke or tea party. Will you be willing to play a role in causing this change? I am 70 now. So, if you ask me to come and lead a revolution now, you are not being fair to me. So, it is young Nigerians like you who will rise and cause the changes you want. But if you sit down, fold your hands and think somebody will come from Mars to solve your problems for you, then good luck to you.