BENIN – Edo State Council of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) on Tuesday issued a three-week ultimatum to the state government to address the poor conditions of service of its members failing which the union will embark on a strike. The teachers’ demands were contained in a communique issued after its enlarged state executive council meeting in Benin City. The communique which was signed by Fidelis Oigbochie and Moni Mike Itua, chairman and secretary of NUT as well as the executive leadership of its affiliate members called on the state government through the Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) to pay allowances to EDO BEST teachers that participated
in the 2018 and 2019 training programmes. The unions lamented that after the training programmes both serving and now retired primary school teachers that participated in the training are yet to be paid despite the budgetary provisions made for it by the state government. The union also decried the nonpayment of Primary School Teachers in Oredo and Uhunmwode local governments of their 2013, 2014 and 2015 promotion arrears by SUBEB. Other demands of the teachers are the delay in the release of N60 million subventions for 2018/2019, third term to schools as approved by the state government. It also condemned, the alleged plan by the authorities of SUBEB to introduce competency test as a measure to appoint head of school in the state in contravention of
an existing legal suit at the National Industrial Court, Enugu. The union noted that any form of competency test being contemplated by SUBEB for the recruitment of school heads is unacceptable to it, null and void. “State Working Executive Council in session hereby calls on all its members to braze up and be prepared for further action(s) as may be deemed necessary and directed by the union should the relevant government board and agents refuse to positively address the issues raised in this communique not later than September 5, 2019. “School Heads and Acting School Heads are advised to continue to carry out their lawful assignments and must not handover to anybody as illegally directed by the Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB).