The Senate on Tuesday confirmed the appointment of all the 43 ministerial nominees sent to the Red Chamber by President Muhammdu Buhari. The nominees were screened within five days. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While the seven women on the list were simply asked to address the Upper Chamber, bow and go, their male counterparts answered questions thrown at them by the lawmakers, with the exception of former lawmakers, who were also asked to take a bow and go. By statistics, the ministers-to-be (36 males and seven females), are made up of former governors (14%); former ministers (23%); former senators (14%); former commissioners (9%); technocrats/ambassadors (12%); Senior Advocates of Nigeria (7%) and others (21%). In summary, career politicians have 72% slot in the proposed Federal Executive Council, while non-career politicians have only 18%. Unfortunately, President Buhari didn’t fulfill his promise of giving 35 percent appointments to women. The youths are not also represented as all the nominees are above 35 years. On the basis of geopolitical zone, the President nominated nine persons from the North West, seven from the North East; seven from the North Central; seven from the South West; seven from the South South; and six from the South East. Four zones have seven nominees each, while the North West and South East have the highest (nine) and lowest (six) nominees respectively. The south easterners are said to be unhappy with the margin. They are said to be angry that President Buhari selected nominees based on the votes he garnered per region. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), during the last presidential election held on February 23, 2019, President Buhari scored 5,995,651 votes in the North West and a paltry 403,968 votes in the South East. It is therefore politically logical for the North West to get more appointment than the South East. Moreover, the North West is made up of seven states, while the South East has only five. One state in each region has two nominees, except the North West region where Buhari hails from. Two states in the region, Kano and Katsina have two nominees each. This is apparently because Buhari earned more votes in Kano than other states and Katsina his state of origin. Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory has no nominee. Some argue that Buhari excluded Abuja because the residents didn’t vote for him. It is widely believed that how to hold on to power in 2023 might have largely influenced President Buhari’s ministerial choice, because majority of his nominees are career politicians who are more skilled in coordinating campaigns than providing good governance. Indeed, it is a season of political harvest for the President’s loyalists. The list of ministerial nominees tends to suggest that those who worked diligently for Mr. President in 2015 and 2019 would be enormously rewarded. The 43 potential ministers are a perfect election winning squad. The President must have carefully selected the leading political lords across the states by nominating the strong politicians who lost at the polls to keep them active for 2023. Politicians with weak political structures are being discarded for the influential and powerful ones. For instance, former Minister of Agriculture, Audu Ogbeh, was replaced with George Akume who has many political disciples and a large pocket. The former governor of Akwa Ibom State and erstwhile Senate Minority Leader, Godswill Akpabio, and former Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, are being re-energised to install APC in Akwa Ibom and the South-South. The Senator representing Kwara Central Senatorial District, Gbemisola Ruqayyah Saraki, is being strengthened to decimate Bukola Saraki’s political machinery. Olorunimbe Mamora’s nomination has further strengthened team Lagos and Bola Tinubu’s commitment to the 2023 project. Chris Ngige was reappointed to put structures in place for APC to win Anambra. Timipre Sylva’s is being empowered to revive APC for victory in the forthcoming Bayelsa governorship election. Festus Keyamo is being wired for the 2023 governorship race in Delta State. Emeka Nwajiuba is being tasked to reunite APC and win Imo. The ministerial hopefuls are indeed a perfect election winning squad. Their appointment might be to empower them with the federal might and resources they need to deliver victory for the APC in 2023.