ADO-EKITI – Mr. Asuquo Amba, the Ekiti State Commissioner of Police and some top aides of Governor Kayode Fayemi participated in a youth street walk aimed at sensitizing them on the need to shun sharp practices and embrace profitable ventures. The rally tagged “Ekiti Youths Agenda Walk” was organized by a non-governmental organization, The New Generation Girls and Women Development Initiative (NIGAWD) in conjunction with the Ministry of Youths and Sports Developments and National Youths Council. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The team moved round the major streets in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital and the Governor’s office. Other participants were the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Biodun Omoleye; Commissioner for Youths, Michael Awopetu, and the Special Assistant to the governor on Youths Affair, Moses Ademiloye. The rally also featured leaders of some civil society groups The Executive Director NIGAWD, Abimnola Aladejare, explained that the event was meant to create awareness on the youths demands as contained in a policy document recently adopted by government in Ekiti. Aladejare hinted that the youth policy framework focused on education, employment, health, agriculture and poverty reduction. She hoped that some of the recommendations would be included in the 2020 budget in Ekiti. In his remark, Amba said the prime target were the youths who almost engrossed in a period of indecision. The police chief hinted the event was another opportunity not only to identify with the youths, who formed the greater percentage of the state population but also to admonish them to shun all forms of crime and criminality as well as drug abuse. “Our prime target are the youths who are always caught in between the period of indecision .We are using the opportunity to tell them to shun all evil acts and embrace peace .We do not want to them indulge in cultism and other social vices,” he said. In his speech, Omoleye urged the youths to take advance of the knowledge economy being advocated by the Fayemi administration by keying into some of its developmental programmes.