High Chief (Dr.) Okhue Iboi is the Spokesman of White Witches Association of Nigeria. In this interview with select journalists in Lagos, Dr. Iboi speaks on revelations of witches for Nigeria. AKINWUNMI KING was there. Excerpts: In 2015, you predicted victory for former President Goodluck Jonathan, yet he lost to President Muhammadu Buhari. How come your prediction didn’t come to pass?
Yes, I did. It was clear that he was going to win but because he refused to carry out the necessary sacrifice, he lost. He underrated us. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network So, did Buhari meet your group?
(Laughs). No. There are ways things work. Buhari won because the witches from Katsina took the advantage of Jonathan’s stubbornness and reached out to us and that paved way for the victory. How did just people meet at your coven, what form does it take?
It is not for the ordinary eye. Whatever consultation anyone wants, I am available to take the messages to the witch world. Mind you, we are white witches with pure heart. We are not black or red witches. The black and red witches are very tough, pray you don’t encounter their anger but we are peaceful. Insecurity in Nigeria is affecting everything. Do you people (White Witches) have solutions?
The situation has become worrisome. As members of the White Witches Association of Nigeria, we are also worried. In fact, we just held an emergency meeting at Zuma Rock in Abuja to discuss the worsening insecurity situation across the country. It has never been so terrible like this. I implore President Muhammadu Buhari to give express marching order to the various security agencies including the Police to quickly arrest the deteriorating situation. It should not get to a situation whereby bandits and kidnappers will become the rulers of the country. What is the outcome of your Zuma Rock meeting?
We held the meeting because we are also stakeholders of Nigeria. We are deeply worried that the nation is drifting and we don’t want anything untoward to happen. Our interest is a united, peaceful and progressive Nigeria. It was clearly revealed to us in our crystal ball that there were plans to destabilise Nigeria. Some disgruntled elements are deliberately creating some of these problems in order to destabilise the government. We also saw so many foreigners who are armed coming into the country. Then some of these things are not ordinary, there are spiritual dimensions to it, and this is why government has to enlist the support of traditionalists to carry out some sacrifices, and if they do that, there will be peace. During our meeting, some of the nation’s founding fathers including Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Papa Obafemi Awolowo, and Sir Ahmadu Bello appeared to us, pleading that they were not happy with the continued killings, kidnappings and murder of innocent Nigerians. They asked us to tell President Buhari to stop these killings, and restore sanity to the country. Still on the political scene, any revelation on Buhari and Atiku Abubakar case at the tribunal?
Atiku would have won the 2019 presidential elections if he had listened to the White Witches. As far back as January, we told him that he would win the polls but that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would be compromised but Atiku ignored our warnings. However, it is not yet late as the tribunal’s decision can go either way. But one thing that was clearly revealed to us was that he would become President of Nigeria one day. Mark my word, whether Atiku wins at the tribunal or not, he will surely become president of Nigeria one day. We also made revelations in our crystal ball over the election petition of General Jeremiah Useni (retd) in Plateau State. I mean his petition against Governor Bala Lalong. Are you saying Useni will win?
Useni’s case is a very interesting one as our members, following invitation from the Plateau State branch of Witches Association of Nigeria had to converge on Wase Rock in Jos, the capital of Plateau State for a special meeting to discuss his case. Our members in Plateau State told the National Executive of our association that he was a nice man. As a result of that they picked interest in his case. Based on their request, we held special prayers for him. But before doing that it was revealed to us in our crystal ball that he might upset Lalong. It was revealed to us that if he becomes the governor of the state that his tenure will witness not only economic boom for the state but also enduring peace. With the current crisis in Nigeria, do you foresee any break-up?
Nigeria will not break. All the crises will cease if the government quickly does the needful. It is not only technology or Western ideas that will solve the killings and banditry. The quick solution is for us to follow the ways of our forefathers. Let’s do the necessary sacrifices and appeasements, and there will be peace. If we can allow Christians and Muslims to pray for Nigeria, why not the traditionalists? What should be of paramount importance to our leaders is for us to have peace. What is your advice to the newly elected public office holders?
They should be service-oriented. They should realise that they were elected to serve the people. They should avoid the temptation to loot the treasury. Let me also warn those that have just been sworn into office that it was revealed to us during our meeting that starting from now, any of them that loots the treasury will be afflicted with strange ailments that will result in deaths. We were told that henceforth, there would be no peace for looters. 