LAGOS – A British Commercial High Court sitting in London on Friday gave Process and Industrial Development Limited (P&ID) leave to seize Nigeria’s assets worth $9 billion. The Court, presided over by Justice Butcher, gave this leave in a ruling in favour of the claimant company P&ID over a dispute arising from a 2010 deal entered into between P&ID and the Federal Republic of Nigeria (FRN). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network By its initial statement of case in arbitration proceeding served on June 28, 2013, P&ID claimed that the Federal Government was in repudiatory breach of the said deal. It therefore claimed damages quantified at $5,960,226,233 plus interest as compensation for its loss in respect to the agreement. On January 31, 2017 an Arbitral Tribunal sitting in London issued its Final Award, stating, “The net present value of the profits which would have been earned was assessed by the majority as being $6,597,000,000. This is the measure of damages. It is the present value of income which would have been earned over a long period. “The FRN was also ordered to pay interest on the sum of $6,597,000,000 at 7% per annum from March 20, 2013 until the date of the Final Award and at the same rate thereafter until payment.” However, the Federal Government has not paid any part of this Final Award, and has not applied to set it aside in any jurisdiction. P&ID therefore brought the instant case before Justice Butcher for enforcement of this Final Award. P&ID commenced the present proceedings on March 16, 2018 before Butcher, seeking enforcement of the Final Award. In the instant hearing, counsel to the Federal Government, Mr Matovu QC, raised issues over the location of the juridical seat of the arbitration; that as a matter of Nigerian law the seat of the arbitration ought to be Nigeria, not London. In his ruling however, Justice Butcher, while dismissing the Federal Government’s contention, held, “I conclude that the terms of Procedural Order No. 12, coupled with the fact that neither it nor the Final Award have been set aside by this or any court, determine the location of the seat of the arbitration as being London, England, and that that is not a matter which the FRN can now ask this court to revisit.” He also confirmed the Final arbitral award, ordering its enforcement thus, “For these reasons, I am prepared to make an order enforcing the Final Award in the same manner as a judgment or order of this Court to the same effect.” It would be recalled that in its Final Award, the Arbitral Tribunal sitting in London had ordered the FG to pay P&ID the sum of $6,597,000,000 at 7% per annum from March 20, 2013 until the date of the Final Award and at the same rate thereafter until payment. The entire sum to be paid by the Federal Government has thus been assessed at $9billion. Specifically, P&ID was to build a gas processing plant in Calabar, Cross River State under a Gas Supply and Processing Agreement (GSPA) date January 11, 2010 and entered into between P&ID and the FRN acting by its Ministry of Petroleum Resources. Also under the terms of the GSPA, the Federal Government was to supply natural gas (Wet Gas) at no cost to P&ID via a government pipeline to the Calabar site of P&ID’s production facility. P&ID was to construct and operate the facility necessary to process the Wet Gas by removing the natural gas liquids (NGLs) contained within it, and to return to the FRN lean gas suitable for use in power generation or other purposes, at no cost to the FRN. P&ID was to be entitled to the NGLs stripped from the Wet Gas; and the Agreement was to run for 20 years from the date of first regular supply of Wet Gas by the FRN. Clause 20 of the GSPA partly provides thus, “The Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The Parties also agreed that if any difference or dispute arises between them concerning the interpretation or performance of the Agreement, and if they fail to settle such difference or dispute amicably, then a party may serve on the other a notice of arbitration under the rules of the Nigerian Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The parties also agreed that the arbitration award shall be final and binding upon the Parties, and it shall be delivered within two months after the appointment of the third arbitrator or within such extended period as may be agreed by the Parties. It was also agreed by the parties that the venue of the arbitration shall be London, England or otherwise as agreed by the Parties. But by 2012 a dispute had arisen in relation to the deal. P&ID contended that the Federal Government had failed to make available Wet Gas in accordance with the Agreement. And on August 22, 2012 P&ID served its Notice of Arbitration on the Federal Government. While P&ID had on September 19, 2012 appointed Sir Anthony Evans to act as arbitrator, the Federal Government had on November 30, 2012 appointed Chief Bayo Ojo, SAN as its arbitrator. The two arbitrators would invite Lord Hoffmann to become “chairman” of the arbitral tribunal, and he accepted this appoi