BOLU-OLU ESHO AKURE – It was pomp and ceremony on Monday when traditional ruler, chiefs, sons and daughters of Igbara-Oke in Ifedore local government area of Ondo state trooped to the streets during the town’s annual Yam Festival, popularly known as Ijesu Olowa. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Drums of different shapes made from animal skin and traditional trumpets-some made from calabash, woods and brass-were rolled out. It is an annual festival that attracts indigenes of the town from different parts of the globe. The traditional ruler of the town, the Olowa of Igbara-Oke, Oba Adefarakanmi Agbede took the lead to herald the commencement of this year’s yam festival Decked in the full regalia designed for the Ijesu Olowa, with finesse, Oba Agbede led his people to a special farm cultivated by the king for the purpose. He was accompanied by his traditional chiefs, market women, both young and old folks with drummers, trumpeters and singers thrilling everyone as the King headed for the farm. They returned from the farm with large number of yam tubers. Tubers of different sizes and shapes. It was a bumper harvest and the people were so excited as they admired some of the tubers of uncommon sizes. At dusk, the women cooked the yam, while some were roasted. The rhythm of the pestles and mortars when women began to pound the yam rendered the air. The roasted yam served as the appetizer, but when the pounded yam was ready, the people started praising their King. Everyone settled down for the pounded yam with egusi(melon) soup. Traditional drummers and singers took over treated guests to some folklores and told stories of the people from the ancient time to Oba Adefarakanmi Agbede’s reign. Oba Agbede told journalists how excited he was by the large turnout of his subjects including those who reside outside the state and the country. He expressed concern about how Yoruba cultural heritage is being eroded gradually by infiltration of western culture. The monarch, however, implored all Yoruba traditional rulers to preserve their cultural heritage by teaching their children the culture.He also emphasized the need to sustain the cultural heritage by taking necessary precautions against any means of portraying same in bad light.