Ibadan – Governor Seyi Makinde, on Wednesday, lauded the Old Students’ Association of Ibadan City Academy, Eleta, Ibadan and its School Governing Board (SGB) for having expended over N40 million on the rehabilitation of 15 structures including classrooms, laboratories and the school’s library while another five structures were presently under renovation.
The school has six teachers under the employment of the alumni to take care of various subjects like English Language, Mathematics and sciences to support teachers under the Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), while a borehole was sunk for the students to have access to portable water.
Makinde, who was represented by his deputy, Rauf Olaniyan, at a capacity building seminar organised by the old students of the school, in conjunction with its SGB body, said the situation on ground as far as public schools facilities were concerned was pathetic, reiterating the administration’s readiness to take the all-encompassing education policy to a greater level.
The old students of the school had invited five education experts from the United Kingdom from the popular Association of Nigerian Academics in UK, among whom was a member of the alumni.
They took over one hundred teachers through the modern and up-to-date requisites of teaching methodologies and learning styles that could enhance students’ performance.
The deputy governor, while declaring open the seminar, promised to partner with Association of Nigerian Academics in UK to spread the gains of the capacity building program to other areas in the state.
Olaniyan said: “on behalf of the government and the people of Oyo State, I want to appreciate the alumni of Ibadan City Academy and its SGB for their efforts to complement government in uplifting education in the state.
“Government cannot do everything. We urge people in and outside the state to inculcate this laudable effort and contribute to the growth of education in the state to propel the needed effect on other aspects of human life.
“Let me give kudos to the last administration for bringing SGB on board, but I want to add here that our administration will take the policy to a greater height.
“On behalf of Oyo State Government, I have the privilege to tell you that we are ready to partner with you because we know that no matter the cost of building structures in schools, if capacity of teachers is not updated, then the buildings are nothing.
“I want to add that with what we have seen here, by the time you come here next year, we would have done our own bit that you will have a good story to tell,” he promised.