LAGOS – Before the eventual release of ministerial list by President Muhammadu Buhari, there were insinuations that the immediate past governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode was going to be among those to be nominated. Many even predicted that he was going to get one of the top portfolios. But it was a big surprise to a lot of people to see Ambode’s name not included when the list was eventually made public. Though it was unclear to many as to why Buhari didn’t include Ambode in the list but sources confirmed that he was nailed-on for a spot at one point but the camp of the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who prevented him from getting a second term ticket in Lagos, also managed to oust him from Abuja, installing one of their own as the ministerial representative from the state instead. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Before now, some of those believed to be Tinubu’s foot soldiers had vowed to ensure that they drag Ambode to the EFCC. So it was no surprise on Tuesday, when Ambode again surfaced in the news. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) got a judgment, which directed the commission to freeze three different bank accounts containing a total of N9.9bn allegedly linked to the former governor. The EFCC in a press statement by its spokesman, Tony Orilade, titled, ‘EFCC Secures Freezing Order on Accounts Linked to Ex- Gov. Ambode over Alleged N9.9bn Fraud’, said Justice Chuka Obiozor of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Tuesday ordered the freezing of the sum of N9.9bn belonging to the Lagos State Government. The judge gave the order, following an ex parte application filed by the EFCC The funds are domiciled variously in First City Monument Bank (FCMB) with account number 5617984012; Access Bank with account number 0060949275; and Zenith Bank with account number 1011691254. The EFCC in its prayers had asked the court to freeze the accounts pending the conclusion of investigations and possible prosecution of Adewale Adesanya, the Permanent Secretary in the office of the Chief of Staff to Ambode while he was still in office. The EFCC, in an affidavit deposed to by Kungmi Daniel, an operative of the agency, alleged that there was a huge inflow of N9, 927,714,443.29 from the state accounts into an FCMB bank account opened on September 17, 2018 during the administration of the former governor and operated by Adesanya. It was further stated that the schedule of the FCMB account showed how Adesanya and other signatories to the account allegedly made fraudulent transfer from the accounts of the Lagos State Government and dissipated the funds housed in the said accounts. Counsel to the EFCC, Mohammed Abbas in his submission, explained that, “The trend in the account is that the account always witnessed huge inflow from Lagos State Government in the above scheduled accounts managed by the respondent (Adesanya).” Abbas, thereafter, asked the court to grant an order to temporarily attach and take over the accounts to enable it conclude its investigations. “There have been concerted efforts and attempts to dissipate the contents of the accounts listed in the schedule to this application. “Without freezing the nominated accounts and temporarily forfeiting the money to the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, there is no way the fraud being perpetrated using the scheduled accounts can be stopped,” Abbas told the court. Justice Obiozor, however, granted the prayers of the counsel to the EFCC and adjourned further proceedings to September 9, 2019. To some who are very close to the governor, this indeed, is a trying period for the former accountant general of Lagos, as he may have to face grievous persecutions in days to come. Speaking to Daily Independent, a lawmaker and member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, who doesn’t want his name in print, said, “I knew this was bound to happen to him. We warned him then but he was too power-drunk and refused to listen. “The EFCC issue as far as I am concerned is just karma. Remember, when he assumed office in 2015, how he exposed his own predecessor, Babatunde Fashola, accusing him of spending outrageous amount on building a personal website and another amount on the construction of boreholes at the Lagos House. “I really don’t know what to say concerning this EFCC issue, if he is found to be guilty, then he will have to face the music and I can bet it that no one will save him because some forces are hell bent on dealing with him. The way he handled the issue of his second term ticket that he lost, was very immature. I expected him to have behaved himself all through that period but he did not. He decided to contest the primaries; he fought dirty and in the end, he was ran over to the presidency and started romancing the president thinking that the president would rescue him by appointing him as a minister. Has he been able to secure or influence the appointment now? I feel for him because as it is now, he is on his own,” said the lawmaker. Last week, the immediate past Secretary to the state government, Tunji Bello, accused Ambode of compounding environmental challenges of the state by refusing to follow the development plan of 2012-2025 laid by his predecessors, Tinubu and Fashola. Bello, who appeared before the 16-man ad-hoc committee set up by the Lagos State House of Assembly to screen the commissioner nominees by the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, made this allegation in the course of fielding questions from ad-hoc committee members. While giving his experience as a former Commissioner for the Environment in the state, he disclosed that the state government had a development plan for the period of 2012 to 2025, which Ambode allegedly failed to work on. Bello said the poor comprehension of waste management plan by the immediate past administration in the state compounded the state environmental challenges. Another federal lawmaker, who also spoke to our correspondent on the basis of anonymity, buttressed Bello’s claim, saying, “Ambode was a governor who always wants to do things his own way and he doesn’t listen people around him. A lot of things happened under his watch, which many people don’t know about. For me, I had to distance myself from him when I discovered that he was misbehaving. I tried calling him to order but he wouldn’t listen to me. I even had to visit him at his home in Epe during one festive period and tried to call his attention to some of the things I heard about him then, but he shoved off the issue and instead asked me to eat barbecue and drink champagne. “In fairness to him though, Ambode is the most fantastic guy anyone would want as a friend. I have known him while he was still at the local government, even before he became the state Accountant General. But I really don’t know where he got it wrong; probably when he became governor, he surrounded himself with people who misled him and those were the people he was listening to. “From this recent news, I pray he doesn’t land in trouble at the end of the day. I want to believe he has nothing to do with those bank accounts. But whatever the case, we should wait to hear from him before we can conclude,” the lawmaker said. The recent development seems to be a plot by some to smear the name of the former governor. For instance, there were previous allegations of having extra-marital affairs and having children outside marriage. Since he left office, Ambode has distanced himself from people he is expected to be close to; he doesn’t participate in any state functions. When the incumbent Lagos Deputy Governor, Obafemi Hamzat lost his father, as a Deputy Governor-elect in May 2019, Ambode never visited the family, neither wrote any condolence message. He was not at the inauguration of the 9th Lagos State House of Assembly. He was absent at the fourth Lagos Traffic Radio Lecture Series, where his Fashola was the Lead Speaker. Also, he was conspicuously absent at the unveiling of the Taxpayers Identification Number (TIN) certificate in Lagos on Thursday. When in 2014, Fashola was asked about his successor, he said he was not worried, yet at the same time expressed concern. “I hope, firstly, that the next person is a lot better than me. I hope that he can do in four years what we did in eight years, and that can only be beneficial to all of us. We want somebody who can do these things in a shorter time and make all of the things we have done child’s play. That is why I said I don’t want to be the best governor of Lagos State. The best governor of Lagos is a futuristic idea. Every governor of Lagos should be better than the last one.” Political observers are and watching and waiting to see where and how this recent EFCC move will end.