ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday in Japan secured a $300,000 support funds for the Nigerian Defence College, including 12 million Yen for public health facilities in Nigeria. The move followed challenges posed by sea pirates in the Gulf of Guinea, which Buhari had tabled before the Japanese government during a meeting between the Nigerian delegation and Japanese officials led by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, on the margins of the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD7). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the Nigerian President, “We are not averse to support from the Asian government in combating piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, considering the toll it is taking on our economy,” lamenting the illegal fishing activities in that region. The Nigerian leader, who commended Mr Abe for the invitation extended to him to attend the triennial forum, also thanked the Japanese government for attending the pioneer celebration of June 12 as Democracy Day in Nigeria. Abe welcomed Buhari’s participation at TICAD7 and the country’s signing of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement. He said: “I commend your administration for taking Nigeria to the Next Level, hence we pledge a $300,000 support for Nigeria’s Defence College as well as 12 million Yen for the country’s public health sector. “Japan also pledges support for Nigeria’s Presidency of the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, while seeking Nigeria’s support for Japan’s bid to occupy some global positions.” Also on Thursday in Yokohama, Nigeria and the European Union (EU) signed a €50 million Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to support humanitarian and development efforts in the country’s North East region. The cooperation agreement, signed by Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, and EU Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development, Mr Neven Mimica, would bring the total EU support for the country to €562million for 2014-2020. Buhari, thanked the EU member states for their support especially for the North East, describing as “pathetic the situation in internally displaced camps.” He also called for further assistance to improve youth education in the region to take them out of poverty.