Lagos – The Nigerian Embassy in Berlin has invited the police in Germany to commence immediate and thorough investigation of the attack on Senator Ike Ekweremadu, the immediate past Deputy Senate President. This is with a view to identifying the perpetrators and swiftly bringing them to justice in accordance with German law. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the Embassy, this would serve as deterrent to future acts of violence against officials of the Nigerian government, especially those from the South Eastern part of the country, on German soil. Under German laws, physical assaults are punishable by fines or imprisonment of up to 10 years, depending on the gravity. The Embassy gave this indication in a statement made available to Daily Independent on Monday. Ekweremadu, who is a serving senator from Enugu State, was beaten up by members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Nuremberg, Germany, on Saturday, August 17 at an event organised under the auspices of Ndigbo Germany, a registered entity in the Federal Republic of Germany. He was molested just as he arrived at the venue to give the keynote address. Invitations were extended to Nigerian dignitaries, including the senator and Nigeria’s Ambassador to Germany, His Excellency Yusuf Maitama Tuggar. The Nigerian Ambassador honoured the invitation but arrived at the venue shortly after the incident. The organisers had reportedly requested for police protection to ensure public order during the event. The police, however, told them that the threat level was minimal and did not require stationing of any personnel at the venue before the incident. Meanwhile, Ekweremadu has returned to Nigeria after attack on him. Speaking at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja on Monday, the lawmaker narrated how it all started. “I was informed that the place is full and that the mayor of the city where we visited was very cooperative. And the Nigerian ambassador to Germany was also at the venue, so we had to rush down,” he said. “When I got there, I saw a lot of Igbo people who had assembled so I was excited and I came out of the car because I saw so many people, I wanted to say hello to them. We were exchanging pleasantries. So, there were a couple of Igbo people, IPOB and emblems so one of them now accosted and blasted me and said that we didn’t do much when we had python dance (a military operation) in the South-East. I told him let me exchange greetings with others and I can now respond to him later as I was just coming in. So he held my hand and said no, I now removed my hand and started shaking other people. So at that point, the organisers apparently noticed what was going on and wanted to resist them, then the fight ensued.”