Love Island winner Amber Gill has revealed she was asked to go on the show last year but rejected the opportunity because she had a boyfriend. Ambert won the most recent series with Greg O’Shea, and has now told of how bosses slid into her DMs in 2018 in the hope of getting her in the villa, not realising she was in a relationship. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Speaking on an Instagram Q&A, Amber told fans: “I didn’t actually apply to go in the villa, I got asked via Instagram. “I did get asked the year before but I had a boyfriend – but let’s not talk about him. She added: “When I got asked [this year] I thought, ‘Why the hell not, let’s try it.’” The 22-year-old star also admitted she is unlikely to return to her career as a beauty therapist, but still wants to speak about that industry because that is “what [she] knows”. Amber said: “I don’t necessarily think I’ll be a beauty therapist anymore, performing treatments, but I’m definitely keeping my skincare, haircare, anything like that. “Beauty is what I know and that’s what I know I can talk about.” After some time apart from Greg, Amber is flying out to Ireland this weekend to meet his family, and insisted he is even more “lush” outside of the villa. She said: “I’m going to see Greg this weekend. I’m going to fly over to Ireland and spend the weekend with him. He’s lusher in real life, he’s so fit.” Amber admitted her life has been “absolutely crazy” since she departed the show, but isn’t missing life on the Island as much as you might think. “I half miss the villa and half don’t,” she said. “Because everything that’s happening now is amazing and I absolutely love it and I love being out and being able to speak to my family.  But the villa was so cute and enclosed. “I didn’t expect to be in the villa that long. I know I can be quite harsh and people take us the wrong way, so I was worried people wouldn’t get my personality. “But I think the Islanders understood I was joking the majority of the time.” Amber has a busy few months ahead of her, as last week it was announced she will be a guest panellist on Loose Women this Wednesday, while it has also been reported she has been signed up for the new series of Dancing On Ice.