The Federal Government on Thursday said it was ready to negotiate with Process and Industrial Developments Limited (P&ID) over the $9.6 billion a British court awarded against Nigeria. It also denied the allegation that it did not diligently defend the case leading to the award of $9.6 billion judgment debt against Nigeria over a botched gas contract. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, gave the government position when he appeared as guest on the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) programme, ‘Good Morning Nigeria’. He said the insinuation in certain quarters that the government did not defend the case both at arbitration and court stages was “untrue and unfair’’. A UK court had in a ruling authorised an Irish engineering and project management company, Process and Industrial Developments Ltd. (P&ID), to seize $9.6 billion in Nigerian assets over the failed contract. The court judgment was fallout of the contract purportedly entered into in 2010 between the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources and P&ID and the subsequent award made in July 2015 by an arbitration panel sitting in London in favour of the company. “We’re leaving no stone unturned to resolve this matter. We are ready to sit down with them and negotiate what is reasonable to all parties. You don’t inflict this kind of injury on a country and its people,” he said. “First eleven would be engaged to take over the case. We are making wide consultations on the matter. Nigerians can be rest assured that everything is being done to make sure that the country is not shortchanged in this case.” He said the government would do everything within its power to ensure that those involved are exposed and prosecuted. “The contract itself was not justifiable and I know that the EFCC, Ministry of Justice and other bodies investigating the contract will come up with facts on how the whole thing was done. The government will not sleep until this matter is resolved in a manner that will not injure the interest of Nigeria,” he said. “The P&ID have the resources to hire the best PR agencies in the world to spread this falsehood. And without internal collaborators, external conspirators will not succeed. We will find those involved in this scam, either inside or outside government. The Ministry of Justice has enough experts to know that this would not be in the interest of our country. On the surface it was a scam ab initio and the actors knew where they were going.” He also said that it was not true that the government did not defend the case. He said the government successfully applied to have the award set aside by the Federal High Court in Lagos, but the tribunal ignored this decision. “The contract was entered into in 2010 and from the records made available, there were three arbitrators. “The arbitrators were the parties to be nominated by the company, the other by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources while the two of them will agree on the third arbiter. “Nigeria was represented on the arbitration by the former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Chief Bayo Ojo (SAN).” The minister said that after the award in July 2015 by the arbitration panel sitting in London, the government went into negotiations with the company, but all to no avail. Mohammed said that when the company also filed the case for the enforcement order in both the UK and the U.S. courts simultaneously, the government engaged services of solicitors to defend the action. “We succeeded to some extent in the U.S. court and our lawyers are still there trying to defend the action. “It is quite disturbing the way Nigerians are commenting about this issue. “It is about all of us because $9.6 billion translates to about N3.5 trillion and that is 20 percent of foreign reserves.”