LAGOS – Ever since he left office as the governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode has been in the eye of the storm, a situation which have left many wondering whether those opposed to his second term ambition have refused to let go their animosity against him. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Few weeks ago, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) caused a Lagos Division of the Federal High Court to order the freezing of three bank accounts allegedly linked to the Lagos State government and Ambode, over an alleged N9.9 billion fraud. Justice Chuka Obiozor, ordered the temporary freezing of the accounts, domiciled in Zenith Bank, Access Bank, and First City Monument Bank, following an exparte application brought by the EFCC. According to the EFCC, N9.9 billion was paid from the state government’s accounts into the FCMB account opened on September 17, 2018, and operated by Adewale Adesanya, Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Chief of Staff to Mr. Ambode The anti-graft agency urged the court to freeze the account pending the conclusion of their investigation and possible prosecution of Mr. Adesanya. In an affidavit filed in support of the ex parte application, Kungmi Daniel, a member of the EFCC investigating team, said the schedule of the FCMB account showed how Mr. Adesanya and the other signatories to the account made fraudulent fund transfers into the account from the accounts of the Lagos State government. “The trend in the account is that the account always witnessed huge inflow from Lagos State government in the above-scheduled accounts managed by the respondent (Adesanya),” the investigator said. He said the commission received intelligence on the transfers, analysed it, and found it worthy of investigation. The EFCC prayed the court to grant it an order to temporarily attach and take over the accounts to enable it to conclude its investigations. “There have been concerted efforts and attempts to dissipate the contents of the accounts listed in the schedule to this application. “Without freezing the nominated accounts and temporarily forfeiting the money to the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, there is no way the fraud being perpetrated using the scheduled accounts can be stopped,” the EFCC said. The judge, after listening to the EFCC’s lawyer, Mohammed Abbas, ordered the suspension of the accounts and adjourned till September 9. Even though after denying having any link to the said accounts and stating that there has been no communication between him and the EFCC, Ambode’s houses in Epe and Ikoyi were on Tuesday raided by the anti-graft agency. The EFCC’s spokesperson, Tony Orilade, said the exercise carried out on the two houses was not a raid, explaining that it was part of an ongoing investigation, which was in line with commission’s mandate and the rule of law. “We need to state for the records that the EFCC did not raid Ambode’s house. It is instructive that his administration, like other former governors, is under investigation since they no longer constitutionally enjoy immunity against prosecution. “As a tradition, we do not carry out an investigation on the pages of the newspapers or through the media. Our operations are always covert until at a time when we file charges in court. Therefore, the attempt to cast the commission in a bad light is unacceptable as the EFCC will never engage in an illegal act. We remain committed to the war against corruption.” When the officials of the EFCC arrived at the Epe residence of the former governor, they were resisted by irate youth who initially prevented them from gaining entry into the building. It, however, took the intervention of three young lawyers who demanded a search warrant from the EFCC official, who were allegedly sent by Rotimi Oyedepo, a lawyer to the commission. According to the three young lawyers, namely: Fatai Adebanjo, Esq., Busari Olanrewaju, Esq. and Samson Okuneye, Esq., “At early hours of today, we were duly briefed that some officers of the EFCC invaded the apartment of the former Governor of Lagos State, His Excellency Akinwunmi Ambode with the intention to search the premises. “We got to the scene and met with the officials of the EFCC to inquire whether they have a search warrant to search the premises of the ex-governor. “Having confirmed the search warrant, the EFCC officials told us that nobody will follow them in as they will only go in alone. We resisted as young lawyers and stated expressly that the principle of search is that the owner of the premises or his representatives must be present to observe the search. “They succumbed to our superior argument and allowed us and the people who had the key to the ex-governor’s house into the apartment with them. Before they entered, we searched all the officials of the EFCC who intended to go in to effect the search. “There was a blue bag which they were holding with them, we requested to see the content of the bag before they could take it in. They got angry and said we could not see the content. Having said that, we strongly resisted them to take it in since they could not allow us to see it, which they later agreed. We later got to know that the bag contained foreign currencies which they brought to plant in the house of the ex-governor to incriminate him. “It is important to inform the public that before the entered the house, we all submitted our phones to them as they requested that the only person required to go in with phone is one of them who will record the whole process. “All documents, including the State Executive Exco Meetings Vol 1-16 in the personal study of the ex-governor and his luggage room, which they intended to take along with them for further investigation, were resisted by us as we told them that failure to take records of all the documents from A-Z, they could not go out with anything and they agreed with us. “Flowing from the aforesaid, they searched the nooks and crannies of the ex-governor’s house and they couldn’t find any incriminating documents or materials. We authoritatively assert that they did not find anything in the house and they didn’t leave the house with anything. “We followed them as they entered from one place to the other. When our presence was intimidating them, they said we should sit down while they will do the search. We insisted that we must follow them to observe every of their activities in the premises. “To our greatest consternation, the officials of EFCC led by Rotimi Oyedepo, Esq, held on to our phones and told us to follow them to their office in Ikoyi to get our phones. All efforts to get back our phones were abortive as the EFCC officials led by Rotimi Oyedepo, Esq rushed into their white Hiace Bus with our phones and instructed that since we resisted their efforts to take ‘the said blue bag’ into the main premises of the ex-governor, they would hold on to the phone. Thus, almost six phones were forcefully taken away, iPhones inclusive. “It is our happiness, as Young Lawyers in Epe, to be part of the process to legally and successfully resist the EFCC from incriminating the ex-governor with the blue bag they brought with them from an unknown destination, and we also compelled them to conduct the search within the ambit of the law. Hence, the success. “We are sincerely elated that our presence really helped a long way to legally and successfully expose the intention of the EFCC to incriminate the ex-governor. To this end, we are ready to challenge the search as they have gone beyond standard and the search warrant in this regard successfully whisking our phones away.” Ambode, in his reaction to the commission’s visit to his two houses, said the EFCC, till date had not opened any direct communication with him on any issue, adding that he was ready and willing to respond if or when they do so. Speaking through a statement issued by his media aide, Habib Aruna, the former governor urged his supporters and the general public to remain calm and law-abiding as there was no cause for alarm. The statement reads: “This morning, operatives of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission visited the Epe Country home and Parkview Ikoyi residence of Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, former governor of Lagos State, with warrants to conduct a search. These searches were carried out extensively and at the end of the exercise, the operatives left without any incident. “The former governor reiterates that the EFCC has till date not had any direct communication with him on any subject matter whatsoever and if or when it occurs he is ready and willing to respond. “The former governor wishes to assure his supporters and the generality of Lagosians to continue to remain calm and law-abiding as there is no cause for alarm.” He also reiterated his belief in the rule of law and due process and remains grateful for the opportunity to have served Lagos State diligently and conscientiously. Some political observers were of the opinion that some forces in Lagos State, especially in the All Progressives Congress (APC), are hell bent on bringing Ambode down. Reacting to the issue, a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Ebenezer Babatope, condemned the raid by officials of the EFCC on the residence of former governor. The former Minister of Transport in a chat with our correspondent, said he is in total sympathy with the embattled former governor, adding that having been denied a second term and ministerial position, Ambode has been sufficiently punished and should be allowed to move on with his life. “Honestly, I don’t understand this criminal rope on the freedom of the individual in our democracy. What has Ambode done to them?  Having denied him governorship and ministerial positions, why can’t they allow him move on with his life? “What has he done that they are witch-hunting him? I am in total sympathy with Ambode, even though I don’t know him from Adam. I think they have punished him sufficiently and they should allow him to go and enjoy the remaining part of his life,” he said. A source who doesn’t want his name in print told Sunday Independent that “they have decided to deal with Ambode and they won’t rest until they achieve their aims. Because he didn’t do their wish, they have continued to persecute him. Part of the things he did before they stopped his government was building terminals and bus depots all over the state, an initiative that would have completely taken out completely those garages that have been there for decades. It’s those garages that are producing touts. There is no need for National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW).” The sources pointed out that Ambode had decided to remain quiet on the treatment given to him. “I know the time he will talk will come. Ambode has made his own determination not to talk for now. Ambode did not fight because of Buhari. He didn’t know that Buhari would be aloof and will not get himself involved. Also, he had too much respect for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. They sold Ambode a dummy, that the ticket will be given to him, but they just wanted to shake him and they were sending people to tell him, ‘don’t worry, you are too popular to be stopped. “The truth is that Ambode never had any issue with Tinubu; it was people that came in between them. Nobody has power in Lagos outside Bourdillon. If Ambode had given the impression that he was ready to fight, they would sit him down. It is about power and resources; power does not belong to these people,” the source added. Also reacting, a public affairs analyst, Olukayode Salako said, “Nobody will ever convince me that Ambode did not do well in Lagos. He did well, but got it wrong in the area of political character. “Character was his own problem. And in democracy, you don’t run your government as if you have the right to do it alone and the way you like, especially when it comes to the issue of dealing with people of your political constituency. Nobody ever did it the way he ran it and ever gets away with it in democracy. “Ambode’s attitude in government was what killed his political prospects in Nigeria or else, he would have also been one of the lucky ministers sworn in few days ago. He did well for Lagos, but it was his attitude in government which brought him down. That attitude was bad, crude and peculiar. This should be a lesson to all of us. I have always said it, education, destiny, beauty, mental brilliance, luck and the grace of God can always take you up there, but it does not take character any moment to bring you down, if you do not know how to behave in it. “Left to President Muhammadu Buhari, he would have been brought in again to serve as a minister in his government, but politics won’t ever allow a man with such a peculiarly rude, arrogant and self-centered social attitude to continue to soar with it. What Ambode is going through today, is not the making of anybody, but his own political character, when he was lucky to govern Lagos State as its governor. “It is the same people, who brought him out from the blues to that place of greatness, who are standing in his way today. In democracy, politics is the king, not the electioneering or the governance. This should also be a big lesson to the new helmsman, Governor Babajide SanwoOlu,” Salako said. Also speaking to Sunday Independent, National President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Gbenga Soloki, described Ambode’s current situation as unfortunate. “It is really unfortunate that this is happening to him. It’s unfortunate in the sense that he gave his best to the state, he was stopped from a second term and he agreed. Though some characters are insinuating political persecution, but I would not want to agree with such position. I have this very strong confidence that it is not. “When you look at the country, most of the immediate past governors are being investigated or probed by the EFCC, so his is not in isolation. Be that as it may, Mr. Ambode has explained to the world that he has no skeleton in his cupboard and that he is ready to answer questions if asked. So, my advice is to the EFCC to go about their duties legally. It is irresponsible and uncalled for to just barge into his house when invitation has not been extended to him as he claimed in his response. “Finally, I will advise that if it is political, it will consume virtually all the actors if it is allowed to degenerate. Caution should be it now. However, Mr. Ambode should also be prepared to answer questions when called upon by the anti-graft agencies,” Soloki added.