BENIN – The Okpameri Political Forum in Akoko Edo Local Government of Edo at the weekend accused Hon. Kabiru Adjoto, the former Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, of causing division among members of All Progressives Congress (APC) and fuelling political crisis in the local government in order to attain the leadership of the party in the local government. The forum, under the APC in a press briefing held at Ibillo near Akoko Edo, said Adjoto’s actions was frustrating the political/economic development of the Okpameri nation. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The group also listed some of the actions of the former Speaker has taken to include “the kangaroo impeachment of an Okpameri son, who is the Vice Chairman of the Akoko-Edo LGA – Hon. Philip Eguarojie; the removal of their son who is the APC party chairman of the LGA, Hon. Dare Ashefor, and his involvement in using the name of the governor to forcefully dissolve the NURTW and other market unions in Okpameri markets and replacing them with his own people illegally.” Mr. Ojo Maliki, while speaking on behalf of the forum said, the actions of the former Speaker was uncharitable, barbaric, untoward and funny but smacks of his insatiable appetite for power. “We as a people have decided that it is time we spoke out to the good people of Edo State and Nigeria on what we are going through in the hands of Hon. Kabiru Adjoto. “It will interest you to know that Okpameri Nation, which produces the bulk of the votes for APC, in every election, is the least represented groups in the government of Edo State. “As we speak to you today, what is Hon. Kabiru Adjoto paying the good people of Okpameri with? He is consciously and deliberately paying us with sacking of our sons and daughters, redeployments of those of our people who are teachers in the state government’s establishments from one location to the other using the governor’s name to back up these undeserving acts. “Hon. Kabiru Adjoto has not only perfected himself in the act of witch-hunting the Okpameri people, he has over the years displayed his hatred in seeing us live in peace and harmony. “He creates bad blood, disunity and sow seeds of discord among the Okpameri people, all in an attempt to keep his political relevance alive,” he said. Maliki said Adjoto had no right to decide who becomes who in the government of Edo State. “We wish to use this medium to make it categorically clear that Hon. Kabiru Adjoto is not an Okpamerian, neither is he a leader of the Okpameri people. “He has no right whatsoever to decide who becomes what and not in the government of Edo State or anywhere. “It is on this note we wish to let the governor and the leadership of APC at the state and every other authority concerned to as a matter of urgency call Hon. Kabiru Adjoto to order for the sake of peace and harmony in Okpameri Land. “Or else, if anything bad happens in Okpameri land, Hon. Kabiru Adjoto shall be held responsible for it. “It is also worthy of note that the slot of the commissionership that is due for the Okpameri Nation is under serious contention from Hon. Kabiru Adjoto, who is insisting that he must produce who would occupy the position. “We want to also urge thegovernor to be pragmatic and listen to the voice of reason on this issue,” he said.