Lagos – In less than a week Nigeria’s senior men’s basketball team, D’Tigers will begin their quest to not only qualify for the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, but to also become the best African team at the global stage. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Achieving the above objective will hand over the 2020 Olympics ticket for the team, whose best performance was a second round outing, losing to Germany 77-78 at the 2006 edition of the World championship in Tokyo. In the team’s maiden appearance at the World Championship in 1998, it lost all their group games and crashed out. Nigeria lost 68-80 to Spain before losing to Argentina 51-68 and 64-70 to Australia. There were no hard feelings as all agreed that, that was a learning curve for the team and the country’s basketball federation. Though, Nigeria failed to qualify for the 2002 edition in the USA, it, however, made up by qualifying for the 2006 edition in Tokyo, Japan. In Tokyo, six teams were grouped together and Nigeria was grouped alongside Serbia and Montenegro, Argentina, Venezuela, France and Lebanon. It was at this championship that Nigeria announced its presence at the global basketball stage, stunning the defending champion, Serbia and Montenegro in their opening game 82-75. Though the country lost their next three games to Venezuela 77-84, France 53-64, Argentina 64-98, it, however, defeated Lebanon in their last group game 95-72 to record their second world championship win and placed fourth in the group. Proving that its second round qualification was no fluke, it took Germany with referee assistance to beat Nigeria 78-77. With the game less than 20 seconds, Nigeria called a time-out, and devised a game plan that gave the ball to Imeh Udoka, the team’s first point guard choice. It was at the point of laying-up the ball that he was fouled by a German player, who hit his hand, but the referee failed to make the call and so Nigeria crashed out. Nigeria failed to qualify for the 2010 and 2014 editions, but has qualified for the 2019 edition, which has its nomenclature change to the World Cup. With the qualification process also having taken a new format, Nigeria was drawn alongside Rwanda, Mali and Uganda. Nigeria won all the group games and qualifies for the next phase where she played Senegal, Cote d’ Ivoire and Central African Republic.  Nigeria topped the group winning all its games and qualifies for the World Cup despite playing the fourth window in Senegal where she lost two games to Senegal and Cote d’ Ivoire. In its bid to make a great impact at the World Cup, Nigeria opened its World Cup preparation in Erie Community College, Buffalo, United States in July with 44 players called up. Before the team was pruned down to 15 players, D’Tigers played three friendly games against World Cup bound teams, Dominican Republic and Canada, winning two and lost one. It beat Dominican Republic 89-87 in its first friendly before losing to Canada 87-96 in their first of two friendlies, stunning Canada in their last friendly game 90-81 in Winnipeg. Can D’Tigers truly reach at least the quarterfinals? Making such assertion will hard since the coaches are yet to name the squad for the World Cup. This will be made public on Tuesday after playing Iran, Poland and Montenegro in the Peak International tournament in China. “These three games in the Peak Tournament will allow us to make adjustments before our first World Cup game against Russia,” says Team manager, Musa Adamu, before they left the country on Tuesday. “Poland plays like Russia, Montenegro plays like Argentina and Iran plays like South Korea. These games will afford us the opportunity of knowing how to play our group games. Iran beat Russia in a friendly. So it is good that we are playing these teams. “These games will also afford us the opportunity of making necessary corrections in the team,” he added. Though, Adamu, refused to give insight into the possible 12-man roster, he agrees that D’Tigers chance of a second round placing was beating Russia in their opening game on Saturday. But it is certain that all the NBA players will make the team and the Skipper Ike Diogu, because of his experience. The NBA players are Al Farouaq Aminu, who plays for Portland Trail Blazers, Okogie Joshua Aloiye (Minnesota Timberwolves), Ike Nwamu (`Sioux Falls Skyforce), Chimezie Metu (Sam Antonio Spurs) and Ekpe Udoh (Uttah Jazz). Diogu, Ike Ireogbu, Ayodeji Akindele, Ben Uzor and Mike Eric all have NBA experience and are now playing in Europe. The team’s assistant coach, American Glynn Cypriem, believes that D’Tigers are good for a second round outing realising that only the first two teams in the group will reach the Round of 16. “This is a high basketball intelligent quotient (IQ) team, experienced, a great group of young players who knows how to play the game,” Cypriem said. “The players also exhibit great leadership quality. We just need to be better defensively, score easy basket        and defend well. We need to play through our post players because our strength is in our post players. “For us to get out of the group, we have to be good defensively. Our NBA players are very good but have a mixture of European players who have also played in the NBA. We need to have good chemistry, good cohesion between our NBA players and non NBA players.” Even FIBA is tipping Nigeria as the team to beat after Argentina. “Are we about to see an African team in the medal hunt? Nigeria’s last 15 names in the training camp feature guys like Ike Diogu, Al-Farouq Aminu, Josh Okogie, Stan Okoye, Jordan Nwora, Ekpe Udoh, Michael Eric, Chimezie Metu… With Russia losing their superstar Shved, Nigeria seem like a team that could test Argentina for the first spot in Group B, and then feel confident enough about facing Poland/China/Venezuela/Cote d’Ivoire in the Second Round. Medal hunt not that far away, right? Right,” FIBA stated on its website.