ABUJA – The people of Bayelsa state will on the 16th of November determine who emerges as their governor to replace Governor Seriake Dickson, the outgoing Chief Executive Officer of the state. But before then, all the parties positioning themselves to win the election must first produce their candidate that will fly the parties’ flag. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In the case of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), 21 aspirants have indicated interest ahead of the party’s primary scheduled for September 3. Among those cleared by the Bayelsa state screening committee headed by the Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde are, Secretary to the state government, Kamela Okara, former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Timi Alaibe, the Bayelsa state deputy governor, John Jonah, Senator Douye Diri and a member of the House of Representatives. Hon. Fred Agbedi among others. All the aspirants cleared for the primary elections have been handed their screening certificates that would enable them to stand for the primary election. According to some political analysts, who took their time to scrutinise the aspirants and their capacity to lead a state, the best candidate should be a person with experience. They opined that for the state to continue the developmental stride initiated by governor Dickson, the would be governor should possess an in-depth quality, flexible coordinated character and a fast thinking mind that adapt to any given situation and also a mind that can turn things around within a short period of time. The analysts said that the Secretary to the State Government, Okara, fit into the description and has the characteristic of turning Bayelsa around for the good people of the state. A look at what he had done in the past shows that since 2017, he has served as Secretary to the Government of Bayelsa State (SSG). Having been appointed midway through the Governor’s second term, he set out an agenda tagged “FINISHING STRONG” to ensure the successful completion of all the projects proposed by the government led by Dickson. Prior to being SSG, Kemela first served as Bayelsa State’s Commissioner for Trade, Industry and Investment from April 2014 to February 2016. And was re-appointed to the same portfolio by the Governor upon the Governor’s re-election in February 2016. As Commissioner for Trade, Industry and Investment, Kemela set out a vision “to make Bayelsa State the model of an African economic success” with a focus on industrialization of the economy of Bayelsa State. Therefore, as part of the drive to attract investment and industrialize the economy of Bayelsa State, Kemela led a team, which conceptualised and developed Bayelsa State’s Industrialization Policy, (in collaboration with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO); He designed the Master Plan for the Bayelsa State Eco-Industrial Park and negotiated and agreed long term industrial leases for a pharmaceutical plant and a cable manufacturing facility. The SSG also designed the Master Plan for Bayelsa State’s Power Generation Hub; coordinated the N2 billion Central Bank of Nigeria MSME funding for Bayelsa State, which provided single digit interest rate financing for over 3,000 businesses in the MSME sector in Bayelsa State. He developed the Strategic Plan for viable Inward Investment into Bayelsa State, with the theme “Bayelsa the destination for gas based businesses”; and provided conducive trading infrastructure through the rehabilitation of access roads to the largest market in the Yenagoa metropolis. The rehabilitation of market stalls and security in market and the rehabilitation of the main abattoir in Yenagoa. In addition, Kemela organized the inaugural edition of the Bayelsa State Investment and Economic Forum in July, 2014 and the 2nd edition of the Bayelsa State Investment and Economic Forum in July, 2015, with a view to promoting the investment potential of Bayelsa State, brokering investment deals, and ultimately, attracting investors into Bayelsa State. His experience, according to political watchers stands him out among the other 20 aspirants vying for the ticket. And the people empowered by the electoral law are the delegates that will on the 3rd of September filed out to vote for their choice of candidate.