Osogbo – Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State has hinted that he would soon present the list of members of his cabinet to the state House of Assembly.
He said this at an interactive session with journalists at his Iragbiji home town, noting that members of the All Progressive Congress (APC) would form bulk of the nominees.
This is coming even as he charged journalists to always verify their stories and shun sensational reporting in their daily activities.
He called on them to uphold the ethics of their profession by being objective, balanced and fair in their reportage of events.
Oyetola, who described the media as a critical element to good governance, implored journalists to always strive to justify the confidence members of the public reposed in them, through the quality of their stories and reports.
The governor, who also seized the occasion to reel out some of his administration’s achievements in the last eight months, said his government has given every sector of the economy adequate attention. He also commended journalists in the state for being supportive of the administration through fair and balanced reporting.
“Your role in the development of our state has been very critical. In our own little way, we have been trying our best in line with our campaign promises to improve on the lives of our people.
“I must acknowledge your role at giving the best coverage to our good works across sectors, most importantly the kind of media coverage that we received during the litigation. Though we had some issues with the press in the past, I thank God that we have started on a good note.
“I must commend you for reporting us fairly. We have been working assiduously to improve on the welfare of our people. Our administration has maintained standard in all sectors of the economy particularly in the areas of health, infrastructure, education and mining sectors.
“We are also striving hard to revive the tourism sector in such a way that its potentials will be properly tapped for the benefit of the state and our people.”