ABUJA – Over 60 political parties and their presidential candidates in the 2019 election, Lawyers United for Democracy and ethnic youth leaders, have raised the alarm over alleged fresh plot to discredit the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the 2019 general elections.
The groups said that the plot was orchestrated by a heavily paid “network of blackmailers” to smear INEC and discredit the nation’s fast improving electoral process.
Speaking on behalf of the groups at a joint press conference in Abuja, Yusuf Dantalle, the National Convener, alleged that the said anti-democratic forces and their pay masters have perfected plot to defame, destroy and discredit INEC and the 2019 election in their renewed bid to gain cheap and v political relevance.
The groups, which also include the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) specifically, accused a former minister from one of the South East states and other losers in the last election of leading the fresh offensive against the commission.
The forum said, “The ultimate objective of this campaign we have discovered is to sway the minds of the distinguished justices of the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court when the matter eventually comes to the Court to rule against the declarations of results by INEC.”
Others in the group are 60 presidential candidates in the 2019 election, the Arewa Youth Consultative Movement, Ohanaeze Youth Movement, O’odua Youth Assembly and others.
The group in a communiqué read at the end of a marathon session in Abuja on Wednesday, however, reaffirmed the vote of confidence earlier passed on the commission by similar groups, just as it warned those behind the renewed campaign of calumny to desist or face the wrath of Nigerians.
The forum in the communiqué read by Danttela also told journalists how those he described as network of blackmailers had infiltrated the media in their desperate bid to destroy, ridicule and smear the Prof. Mahmud Yakubu-led commission.
The party chieftains said, “Credible intelligence has revealed that this network of blackmailers are being coordinated by a former Minister, a member of the Strategy Team in the Presidential Election Campaign Committee of one of the major political party and a governorship hopeful in Anambra. To him we say you need not defame INEC for you to pick the governorship ticket of your party.
“We were approached to join in the campaign of calumny and we were offered over a million dollars which we turned down but these men of dark politics did not rest but found a willing tool in the hand of this agent and his allies to continue dishing out falsehood against the electoral commission and its chairman.
“We say to this man, leave the electoral commission alone and stop creating problem where there is none.”