A new war of words has escalated between Washington and Beijing after
the Chinese media shared the news of a meeting between a Hong
Kong-based US diplomat and leaders of the city’s anti-government
protesters. A report in the Hong Kong newspaper, Ta Kung Pao, said Julie Eadeh of
the US consulate’s political section in Hong Kong, had recently met
with members of the political party Demosist. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The newspaper published a photograph of the diplomat that showed her
talking with student leaders in the lobby of a luxury hotel—under the
headline “Foreign Forces Intervene.” In the latest exchange, US State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus
said the report was “dangerous.” “Official Chinese media reports on our diplomat in Hong Kong have gone
from irresponsible to dangerous. This must stop,” Ortagus said in a
Twitter post. She also accused China of “thuggish” behavior for disclosing the photograph. China has long accused the Western governments, particularly the US,
of meddling in Hong Kong’s affairs. The city has been rocked by months of agitation against a proposed
bill to allow people to be extradited and stand trial in mainland
China. While the proposed bill has been suspended, protests have continued,
opening a new front in an escalating face-off between the United
States and China. China has described the unrest in the city as “the work of the US.” US comments ‘blatant slander against China’ The Office of the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
China in Hong Kong described Ortagus’ remarks as “blatant slander
against China” that had “again exposed US gangster logic.” Ortagus, however, said that “Chinese authorities know full well, our
accredited consular personnel are just doing their jobs, just like
diplomats from every other country.” “Foreign diplomats in the United States, including Chinese ones, enjoy
open access to all elements of American politics, civil society,
academia, and business,” she claimed. On Thursday, Beijing summoned senior officials from the US consulate
general in Hong Kong and demanded that US diplomats based in Hong Kong
“stop interfering” in the city’s affairs. https://twitter.com/chenweihua/status/1159364746329632768?s=20 In a statement, the Chinese foreign ministry urged the US diplomatic
office in Hong Kong to “immediately make a clean break with various
anti-China rioters” and “stop interfering in Hong Kong’s affairs
immediately.” Ortagus hit back, saying at the time, “That is not how a responsible
nation would behave.” Weeks of street clashes between police and protesters—some of them
waving flags of the United States and the United Kingdom — are taking
a growing toll on the city’s economy, as local shoppers and tourists
avoid parts of one of the world’s most famous shopping destinations. Hong Kong has been governed under a “one-country, two-system” model
since the former British colony was given back to China in 1997. Many people in the city have expressed frustration over the violence
that has disrupted their normal life and routine in the city. Washington, however, adamantly backs the unrest in the city as
tensions between the US administration and Beijing have surged over an
expanding trade war and military rivalry in the western Pacific, among
many other disputes between the two world powers.