No fewer than 22 people have died in the Southern Indian state of
Kerala after torrential monsoon rains caused landslides and flooding
that cut off some areas, authorities on Friday said. Seasonal monsoon rains from June to September cause deaths and mass
displacement across South Asia annually but they also deliver more
than 70 per cent of India’s rainfall and are crucial for farm output
and economic growth. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In Kerala, the disaster forced the evacuation of more than 22,000
people and the closure of Cochin International Airport, the busiest
airport in the tourist state. Located along the banks of the Periyar river, the airport will be shut
until at least 1500 IST (0930 GMT) on Sunday, although the Indian Navy
has opened an airfield at a naval base for use by commercial flights,
officials said. Kerala was hit by devastating floods last August that killed more than
200 people and affected more than five million. Those floods, dubbed the worst to hit the state in nearly a century,
caused billions of dollars of damage to fields, homes and other
infrastructure. A few dozen people are feared trapped after a major landslide in
Puthumala village in the hilly district of Wayanad. Rescuers have recovered seven dead bodies and the state government is
planning to transport rescue equipment to the area, said Kerala Chief
Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan. “All arrangements have been put in place to deal with the disaster,”
Vijayan said. The Western Indian states of states of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka
have also been hit this week by heavy rains and flooding. Officials said at least 38 people have been killed in the states this
week due to the rains and more than 200,000 have been evacuated. Hundreds of villages and a few towns in the affected areas of
Maharashtra do not have electricity and drinking water, a state
government official said on Friday, and authorities are trying to
restore electricity in some areas. Fuel was also scarce because some districts had been cut off from the
rest of the state, the official said. Schools and colleges in many parts of Western and Southern India have
been shut since Monday and are unlikely to open this week, authorities
have said. Milk and vegetable supplies to India’s financial hub, Mumbai, dropped
significantly on Friday because many of the affected districts in
Maharashtra are major suppliers. The weather department has forecast heavy rainfall in Kerala, and
Maharashtra and Karnataka in the next two days. Kerala has been releasing water from some of its dams to avoid dam
waters rising to dangerous levels like 2018, authorities said.