LAGOS – The general elections may have come and gone but the aftermath of the polls still linger on, as many are still dragging it out at the tribunal with the hope that the table may turn. Apart from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, many of those who contested the presidential election, seem to have gone back home to mind their various businesses. But the former presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), Oby Ezekwesili, has remained relentless in playing the role of a critic of the present administration. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network On several occasions, the former Minister of Education, has had the opportunity to appear on television stations to express her concern on the state of the nation. Also, at various times, she has had reasons to take to her verified Twitter handle @obyezeks, to criticise the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari on several issues of national interest and also to condemn some of the government’s policies. In a recent tweet, precisely Wednesday, August 14, 2019, the former Minister described President Muhammadu Buhari as a “completely out-of-touch leader.” She made the remark while reacting to Buhari’s directive to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to stop providing foreign exchange for importation of food into the country. While maintaining that the President’s directive was a “blunder”, she said, “A completely out-of-touch ‘leader’. He is cocooned away in the grandeur of Aso Rock where they serve him delicatessen and praise-sing to him: Ranka dede Sir, your Agriculture Policy is working wonderfully. All farmers in Nigeria are now Billionaires & exporting to the US.” Also, in a recent tweet while reacting to a picture of President Buhari picking his teeth, which went viral on social media, Ezekwesili tweet read: “That a Presidency @AsoRock and their allies found this unflattering ‘Fiddling-Nero-type-picture’ of the @NGRPresident worthy of public view really does take their celebration of deadly Incompetence to a stratospheric realm. But then, it really is Governance of tooth-picking.” Last week Sunday, the former Vice President, World Bank for Africa, was a guest on ‘Sunday Politics’ a political programme on Channels Television, where she said that Nigeria is edging closer to collapse and that the leaders must act to prevent that from happening. She noted that the signs captured in the definition of state collapse are now present in the country. While citing some of the signs, she mentioned insecurity, the poor state of the country’s economy, and political instability, among others. “When these four things, security, the economy, social cohesion and political stability are in the negative, then you are fast-heading towards what is known as state collapse. “Initially, I kept saying that we were a fragile country. Now, we are fast-heading towards the threshold where you have a state collapse and we can’t stand watching while that happens,” she warned. The former minister, however, called those in government to as a matter of urgency, accept that the country is certainly not in a good place. While adding that, “Everything seems to have fallen apart”, Ezekwesili, maintained that, “We practically have no institutions that are standing in their credibility at this time. “A first step towards reversing the situation in the country is for those in government to accept the signs that the country is certainly not in a good place at all. “That ownership of your situation is an important and critical step towards solving a problem. If the government pretends that all is well with Nigeria, then it shows how absolutely isolated they are from the issues and challenges of the people that they lead.” “I expect the President and the leadership at the National Assembly to come together to convene a state of the union conversation. “That conversation would have to be a very honest one about what we do with Nigeria because Nigeria is not in a good place at all,” she added. However, in a swift reaction, the Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu rejected Ezekwesili’s claim, insisting that, “Nothing Is Collapsing, The country is strong and moving on.” Shehu who called in during the programme, said, “If the country is collapsing, it is collapsing somebody’s dream, and such a person should wake up” and rescue the dream.” According to him, the progress of the country is further evident in the fact that democratic elections are held and winners are declared. He alleged that those who lost elections were behind much of the criticism against the government. “Having lost the elections, they are devising new ways so that they can grab power. So, let’s see how they can contest and get power,” he said. The president’s aide stated that the current security challenges and other challenges in the country were not new challenges. According to him, “Armed robberies are not new, and political opponents had been killed in the past even before Buhari became President.” Another issue that has been a source of concern to the co-convener of Bring Back Our Girls movement, is the detention of Omoyele Sowore, convener of the #RevolutionNow protest. Ezekwesili, in her usual way of tweeting, has blasted President Muhammadu and his administration for what she describes as “their celebration of deadly incompetence.” Expressing her anger in a series of tweets on Monday she said, “Nigeria and Nigerians shall surely survive a warped political culture that emboldens and rewards incompetence. @YeleSowore is unconstitutionally and unlawfully detained for calling out the deadly incompetence. Not even the Judiciary is spared this spread of deadly incompetence. “Here’s the thing. This level of incompetence is too costly and unsustainable. Let @AsoRock and its crew continue to dwell in their parallel universe, the real world is where our citizens live. @YeleSowore has raised issues that are never going away until addressed.” From all indications, it is clear that the former presidential candidate is determined to continue to point out every wrongdoing of the Buhari’s administration but it is however, not clear or certain if the government is ready to listen to her.