BOLU-OLU ESHO Powered by RubiQube Ad Network AKURE – There are insinuations in Ondo State that Ajayi Boroffice, the Senate Deputy Leader and Senator, representing Ondo North Senatorial District, may contest against the incumbent governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, for the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship ticket next year. This is as controversies have been trailing the outcome of discussions at a reconciliation meeting with warring factions within the party by its National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and other leaders from the Southwest. Chief Segun Osoba told journalists during the visit to Akure, the state capital, that they were there to ensure peace among the party’s chieftains, including the state governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. Shortly after the meeting, the governor’s media team made statements that the party leaders had ordered all other factions to support Akeredolu’s second term ambition, a claim which some said were a ruse. Steve Joseph, Boroffice’s Media Adviser, revealed the relationship between his principal and the governor was cordial and that both are working for the progress of the state, though each could be pursuing this in different ways. Joseph said: “So, regarding his relationship with the governor of the state, it is cordial. He’s working with the governor and supporting him in all necessary ways for the progress of the state. If there’s any other way his support is required by the governor, he would not hesitate to render it so that he can be successful as our party standard bearer and leader in the state. Senator Ajayi Borofice is working with the governor in this direction.” The empowerment programmes he has embarked on as personal and constituency projects are so laudable in the Northern senatorial district so much that people from other districts are calling on him to replicate same in theirs and he is living to expectation. Borofice and Akeredolu had been in cold war since the last governorship election in the state in 2016. But, Borofice’s media adviser explained that his boss was focused on his legislative assignment. Joseph said: “The rumour mill is so active now days, but the truth is Senator Ajayi Borofice is focused on his legislative activities, most especially now that he is Deputy Senate Leader. He needs to redouble his effort. He is so occupied that his primary assignment is so paramount now. “Nonetheless, I won’t deny the fact that there have been a lot of pressure on him to contest for the governorship position of the state. But, each time people approach him for this, he just laughs it off. As party members, there will always be such agitations and advice for him to come forward, but he’s very focused on the assignment he has at hand. “The governorship election is 2020; it’s still a long way to go. His main concern now is the welfare of his people. The legislative assignment given to him by his people is what’s paramount to him now. The governorship issue is not what he is thinking about now.” Ironically, Senator Borofice and the governor are from the same senatorial district. Chieftains of the party who believed in the leadership of the senator justified the intention of the senator to contest the ticket with the governor as part of the beauty of democracy. They stated the senator has a right to contest if he really wanted to. They alluded to the 2015 governorship primaries election of the party in which Borofice contested against the same governor. They described as inconsequential the fact that both of them are from the same senatorial district “But, that he cannot contest is out of it. He can contest. That’s part of the beauty of democracy. We always have a period of four years to come out before the people who elected us. If the governor is doing well why not. And if the people say it is Senator Ajayi Borofice they want, and the pressure is so much on him, so be it. “But he’s not looking at that direction now. If he wants to contest, why not? He has the constitutional right to contest against Governor Akeredolu if he desires so.” Weighing the chances of Borofice in the contest calls for concern. But, his performance in the last general elections gave him a strong mark because he was the only APC candidate that won the National Assembly elections, while others who were supposedly enjoying full support of the state governor, failed woefully. Borofice’s image maker didn’t see his boss’ move as the proverbial camel going through the eye of a needle, attempting to wrest the governorship ticket from the sitting governor who is expected to have the sympathy of the delegates regarded as the beneficiaries of his administration. He said: “If you look at the politics of Ondo State, as I said earlier, Senator Ajayi Boroffice is very popular among party members in the state and that is the more reason there have been series of pressure on him to contest. Even people from outside our party, traditional leaders and other opinion leaders and non-political groups are beckoning on him to come and contest the governorship election. “Even if they are going for delegate system primary, you can’t be too sure the governor has all the delegates. He doesn’t have it. He doesn’t have the number. “Today if Senator Ajayi Borofice decides to contest, part of the people putting pressure on him are even members of the governor’s inner circle who wants a breath of fresh air in policy direction, especially, as it affects our party members in the state. And a lot of traditional rulers, religious bodies, the youths in the party, just mention it are putting pressure on him to contest. “Mainly, over 80 percent of the party members who have been alienated by the administration and party exco led by Ade Adetimehin in the scheme of things is in his support. If you’re not in Aketi Team, they won’t carry you along. This set of people who forms more than 80 percent of our party members in the state are the one mounting pressure on Senator Ajayi Borofice, but he keeps telling them that he’s now preoccupied with the legislative assignment given to him by his people in the northern senatorial district of the state, even now that he has been given additional responsibility as the deputy Senate leader. “It’s a game of number, if he decides to contest today, direct primary or delegate, he will win overwhelmingly. People will vote for Senator Ajayi Borofice because today in Ondo State, he is the chosen one. Everybody loves him. He embraces all members of the party irrespective of whose political circle you belong. Everybody wants him to come in and contest. One thing I believe is that it’s God who gives power. If He decides to give it to someone else, nobody can stop Him.” The governorship election is still about 14 months away and observers are considering the early declaration of ambition as distraction to the sitting governor. But, some believe the governor could not be distracted if he was determined to work for the people. Borofice’s spokesman dismissed the claim, saying “A concentrating mind can never be distracted. If the governor is focused on delivering the dividends of democracy to the people of Ondo State, this shouldn’t serve as a distraction to him. His primary assignment is to deliver these dividends of democracy to the people of Ondo State. He shouldn’t be bothered or concerned about what comes up in 2020 now. “He never expected himself to be governor. He once contested and didn’t make it. He came back the second time and he made it. I want to believe that the power-that-be that made him governor then, if they decide not to make him governor this time around, there’s nothing he can do. So, he shouldn’t be seen distracted, he should concentrate on how to deliver dividends of democracy to the people. “If he gets concerned on politics, I think it’s distraction on itself. Power is so transient, he can’t be sure he will get the second term. But whatever legacy he can leave behind, that’s what he should be working on now. The mandate given to him is four years, and if God decides to make it eight years, so be it. If God decides otherwise, he can’t stop it. God is like a moving train, you can’t stop Him.” The incumbent governor may actually need to do more work to convince the party members that he cares for them as he has been severally alleged to have been discriminatory in the appointments he made so far.