Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on why the organisation issued an ultimatum to Fulani Vigilante to vacate the South- West region. He also speaks on the allegation that Afenifere is playing politics with the issue of Fulani herdsmen. Excerpts: You issued an ultimatum to Fulani vigilante and killer herdsmen to vacate the South-West last week but some Nigerians have said rather than resort to this, why not send a delegation to President Muhammaadu Buhari and table your demands like the other Afenifere led by Senator Ayo Fasanmi and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu did? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network So, the visit by the Tinubu group to President Buhari, what has been the dividend? What benefit has it brought to Yorubaland? President Buhari is not a stranger to us in Afenifere. In 2007, he was Afenifere’s candidate when he promised that he is going to restructure Nigeria. In 2011, I was his spokesman. I lived under the same roof with him. So, he is not a stranger to us. In the last four and half years, our disagreement with President Buhari is not about his party, religion or tribe because I have seen some silly arguments. Some have said Afenifere are talking about Fulani herdsmen because the President is a Fulani man. I said what bunkum? In the 2019 presidential election, Afenifere , PANDEF, Ohanaeze and others adopted Atiku Abubakar as our presidential candidate. Is Atiku a Yoruba or Niger Delta man? Is he not a Fulani man as President Buhari? So, this has nothing to do about the Fulanis. It is about criminality and banditry in our region which we felt the President should use his good office to put under check. At a point, Afenifere had to call on the President that there is a conflict of interests between his role as President of Nigeria and his being a Patron of Miyetti Allah. We also told him that this has hamstrung his security forces from investigating every crime against Miyetti Allah. How can you as President be the patron of a group and the Police will now parade them as bandits with AK-47 who have raped and killed innocent civilians? We believe that the matter of Nigeria today under President Buhari has reached a head and it requires fundamental approach and solutions which goes beyond paying courtesy visit to Aso Villa and smiling for the camera. No! It has gone beyond that. Nigeria is going under and like Obasanjo warned in his letter, we are driving towards Rwanda. So, what need is a radical surgery and not paying courtesy visits. This matter has gone beyond that. As regards the marauding herdsmen and Fulani vigilante, we stand by our demands that they should vacate our region. They have become a menace and it will get to a point where we will no longer be in a position to restrain our people from confronting and combating them if they continue their activities. Yorubas don’t disturb other people. When some Fulani boys came to Akure to kidnap Chief Olu Falae, matcheted him , kept him in the bush and collected ransom, what could have happened if some Yoruba boys went to the North and kidnap Adamu Ciroma and said they want ransom? The Northerners would have killed all the Yorubas in the North. So, if all we are saying is vacate our land, that is a mild request and they should comply in their best interest. Junaid Mohammed one of the prominent Northern politicians said most of your statements are inciting to war but you and other Afenifere leaders will be the first to flee if war breaks out. How will you react to that? Alhaji Junaid Mohammed is a very educated man. I know him very well and we have sat together for discussions. He is a very brilliant mind but he is talking like an ignorant person. Yorubas will run for war? The last civil war they created in Biafra, who are the people who won the war? Benjamin Adekunle popularly called Black Scorpion, Olusegun Obasanjo, Alani Akinrinade and Alabi Isama. All the soldiers that Murtala Mohammed took to war, was it not in the river that he perished them? So, what is Junaid talking about? When his ancestors were bringing wars to Yorubaland, what happened in Osogbo? Yorubas are not ruffians, hooligans, marauders or terrorists. Yorubas will not fight as a first resort . Yorubas fight when there is no other option left. We fight as a last resort. Then when we decide to fight, woe betide whoever stands on the way. Even when internal saboteurs forced Yorubas to act, it is very decisive. They should go and study ‘Wetie’, Ondo 1983 and June 12. During the June 12 struggle, a first class monarch in Yorubaland escaped being burnt alive in Lagos here. That is Yorubas for you when they are pushed to the wall. But they will try every other option. They will try national conference, national dialogue, national summit, even if General Abdulsalami summons them to Minna, they are ready to go. They will do every other thing. It is only when there is no other choice to make than to fight, that is when they fight. But when they are ready to fight, no army can suppress them ` Can you say Buhari is giving special attention to Miyetti Allah ? He is giving more than special preference to them. Miyetti Allah has been treated as ‘above the law’ group who are not subject to the laws of the land. For a group whose members have been accused of rape, killings and all kinds of crimes against humanity, tell me one court where any member of Miyetti Allah has been convicted of a crime. There was a report towards the end of last year that about 30,000 Nigerians have been killed by herdsmen in the last four years in Nigeria. They have done all these things and they are bold in it because the government is soft on them. The law is not being enforced against them. I even read in the papers today that they want to embark on nationwide tour? With who? With all the women they have raped or the people they have killed? You must have seen the video of the woman who came to Nigeria with her 9 year-old daughter. She was raped for days in the bush and she said she will never visit Nigeria again. Will Miyetti Allah go and meet her in America to reconcile with her? We do not have any problem with the President. He is our President but the way Miyetti Allah issue has been handled by him has left much to be desired. It has eroded confidence of Nigerians in his government and the capacity to run an inclusive government in the country. It is not surprising that it is a former Head of State that is calling a peace summit today when we have a government in place. This government has conducted itself in a way that it has open itself to suspicions from different groups in Nigeria and it has lined up behind Miyetti Allah to the extent of saying it has obtained AM licence to establish Fulani Radio, it is offering them N100b compensation, doing Ruga for them, you want to take people’s ancestral lands and give to them. Femi Adesina, the media adviser to the President even told Nigerians that ‘Your land or your life!’. Garba Shehu was insulting us that Miyetti Allah whose members are carrying AK-47 and killing people are on the same pedestal with Afenifere, Ohanaeze, PANDEF and the rest. That was the major reason why we boycotted the peace summit by General Abdulsalami when we realised he lumped us together as socio-culltural groups with Miyetti Allah. There is this belief that Afenifere is playing politics with the issue of herdsmen. While the mainstream Afenifere is supporting PDP and vocal on the issue, the other which is loyal to Buhari is silent on it. What is your reaction to that? Well, if people say we are talking because we are against Buhari’s government, so Prof. Wole Soyinka, one of the people who brought Buhari to power is also against Buhari’s government? Ooni of Ife is also against Buhari’s government? So, are they saying the Alaafin of Oyo is also playing politics with Buhari’s government? We are happy to be on the same page as Afenifere with the Nobel Laureate, Soyinka, with Obasanjo, with the Alaafin of Oyo and other distinguished sons of Yoruba nation and other Nigerians of like minds who have stood against the mindless killings and genocide that is going on in Nigeria. For the other group, if for personal interest, they have decided to aid evil, we don’t have any problem with that. It’s their choice and they have the right to do so. They can call themselves whatever they want to call themselves. Even if they like, they can call themselves Miyetti Allah Patron of Nigeria, we have no issues with it. The only issue we have with them is when they now go about parading themselves as Afenifere. Yorubas are no fools. They know those who are speaking and fighting for their interests and they know those who are playing politics with their lives because of what they want to get from the powers that be. But the most convenient thing to do is to keep silent in the face of evil. All Yoruba land today has been encircled, there are kidnappings here and there, have we heard any word of condemnation from them? So, if it we that are fighting for the good of our people and they now accuse us of playing politics, we are happy because we are playing good politics in the best interest of our people and God Almighty sees our hearts. Tinubu came to power on the basis of restructuring. Why do you think he is not really passionate about it like the Fasoranti –led Afenifere is doing now ? Yes, Tinubu came to power on a restructuring train. But you see if you stand at Ikorodu and you see a bus going to Lagos Island, that bus will not say only Lagos Island passengers should enter. It will take Mile 12, Ojota, Onipanu, Fadeyi passengers and everybody will be disembarking when they get to their bus stops. So, Tinubu’s destination in 1999 was not restructuring but there was a restructuring vehicle on the ground that could give him a take-off immediately because without the bus, he could have been trekking. Immediately he entered the bus, the game changed. So, I do not think that in his heart, he believes in restructuring. People have forgotten that Tinubu’s politics did not start with Alliance for Democracy (AD) in 1999, it started in 1992. They were the people who came to Lagos to defeat Jakande for Yar’Adua. They were the people who started the game of putting money inside bread during primaries through his Primrose group. He came to disrupt the progressive tradition that South-West is known for. So, restructuring to him is just a means to an end. Tinubu is also rumoured to be nursing presidential ambition in 2023, Will Afenifere support his bid? In Afenifere, we don’t promise anybody support in advance. We look at the objective conditions first before arriving at our decision . What if he tells you he will restructure Nigeria if he becomes President in 2023, will you still believe him based on what you have seen now? It will be difficult. On the occasions that we have adopted candidates, in 2015 when we adopted Goodluck Jonathan, there was a reason for it. We did that because of the 2014 national conference. Some of us were opposed to Jonathan. We even organised OccupyNigeria in Ojota that almost brought down his government. But the moment he organised that conference, we supported him. In 2019, we waited at the last minute to look at Atiku’s programme and Buhari’s programme. At the end, we settled for Atiku. So, if Tinubu is contesting, we look at all what is available and will make a rational decision in the best interest of our people. So, we will not commit ourselves now in advance. When that time comes, we will take our decision. There is this insinuation that another Northerner may succeed President Buhari in 2023. What is your take on that? Given what has happened in the last four years and the signals we are seeing in the next level now, what is happening in Nigeria now has never happened before. We have a President from core North, Senate President from core North, Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) from core North. Minus the Ministers now which the constitution mandates that must be picked from all the states , look at all the appointments that has been made under this next level. We have seen that it is the next level of last level we are in for. But how that will play out for the unity of Nigeria is one thing. No doubt, tough times are ahead for Nigerians.