ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday bemoaned the level of insecurity and corruption in the country, saying under-investment in education may have been responsible for the phenomenon. The President told a delegation from Adamawa State led by the governor, Umaru Fintiri, that states were falling short of their responsibilities in complementing the Federal Government in bridging the gaps in these areas. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Buhari, who projected a rapid population growth among the teaming youths, said any meaningful development plans by government at all spheres must take into account emerging challenges of the future. “I am pleased to hear your remarks, specifically focused on issues around education and health. These areas remain priorities for this government, especially as we strive to achieve social inclusion and collective prosperity for all Nigerians. “Many of the issues confronting our nation today, especially in the areas of insecurity and corruption, are directly or indirectly linked to the decades of under-investment in education and healthcare. “At the federal level, we are doing our best to address these issues. But the Federal Government cannot do it alone. We need the state and local governments to do their parts. This is not about politics. It is the reality. “Today, majority of Nigerians are below 20 years old. And it is projected that our population growth rate will remain among the fastest in the world. This means any plans we have today must take into account the needs of tomorrow”. Fintiri said he threw political sentiments away to approach the Federal Government for intervention, particularly in the areas of agriculture, infrastructure and human capital development among youths. On failed roads in the state belonging to the Federal Government, he said the President has awarded contracts where necessary. “We still believe that some of the roads that are giving us serious concern and challenge should be addressed by the Federal Government while the state concentrates on the states’ roads and we have given a serious attention to it. “The Speaker is here with me, he will soon pass supplementary budget for us to start constructing some of these new roads and the abandoned roads by the last administration because our concern, like I have said earlier, is Adamawa and these roads are in Adamawa. “So my administration will not leave any road unattended to because they were started by the last administration. I will complete all the abandoned road projects in the state and start new ones and also complete them before my four years’ term will expire,” he told State House Correspondents after he met Buhari.