Oil resumed its decline as market trading began following the US’ latest tariffs on China, which darkened outlook for the commodity near-term. Brent was trading at $61.12 per barrel at 1.38pm UAE time as markets weighed the prospect of another protracted trade war between the US and China. Tensions in the Middle East, which were on the rise on Sunday following the seizure of another vessel by Iran, seemed to have little bearing on the movement of prices. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark tracking North American crude, plunged to its worst performance in a single day in four and a half years on Thursday after the White House announced 10 per cent tariffs on $300 billion (Dh1.1 trillion) worth of imports from China. Brent, the benchmark for light, sweet crude meanwhile lost 7 per cent of its value and plunged to $60.5 before recovering to $61.89 the following day. President Donald Trump’s decision to levy an additional 10 per cent tax on Chinese goods comes on top of earlier tariffs of 25 per cent imposed on imports from the country. The move, which is likely to draw a retaliation from Beijing, caused the binmen to slump past Rmb7 per US dollar for the first time in 11 years. A standstill in trade talks between Washington and Beijing led to a rout in commodities, with Brent performing in a tight band between $60 and $67 per barrel since March. Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East following attacks and seizures of tankers since May along the Strait of Hormuz, through which a third of the world’s oil transits, barely moved the needle on prices. Prices climbed up to $67.01 following the US’ plans to retaliate for the downing of one of its drones by Iran, but eased after Washington called off the strikes. The latest round of tariffs by the US has stoked fears of a continued lull in the oil markets. “Oil demand has disappointed … in 2019 due to weaker economic activities, unfavourable weather and trade tensions,” Goldman Sachs noted in a report. On Sunday, Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard announced the seizure of another tanker in the Arabian Gulf for abetting fuel smuggling in the region. The Iranian state news agency ISNA, which reported the seizure, did not disclose details on the identity of the vessel. On Monday the country’s foreign minister Mohammed Javad Zarif told reporters that Iran would press charges against the British-flagged Stena Impero seized by the IRGC last month, accusing the UK of collaborating with the US on what it called “economic terrorism”.