A day care center in the US state of Pennsylvania where children could
stay overnight as their parents worked was ravaged Sunday by a fire
that killed five and sent the owner to the hospital, authorities said,
according to Presstv.com reports. The victims in the lakeside city of Erie ranged in ages from 8 months
to 7 years, Chief Guy Santone of the Erie Fire Department said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network At least four of the victims were staying overnight at the residential
house that had been turned into a day care center, Erie Chief Fire
Inspector John Widomski told the Erie Times-News. The fire, reported at about 1:15 a.m. Sunday, was funneling out of
every first-floor window when firefighters arrived, Widomski said. Valerie Lockett-Slupski, standing across the street from the
fire-damaged house, told the newspaper she was the grandmother of four
of the children, and that they were staying at the day care center
because their parents were working overnight. She said the family had two boys and two girls and had used the center
for almost a year. “So we are all at a loss, trying to figure out how this happened,”
Lockett-Slupski said. The cause of the fire remained under investigation Sunday afternoon,
Widomski told the newspaper. The Erie Regional Chamber and Growth Partnership lists the Harris
Family Daycare as “a 24 hour, 7 days a week childcare service
including holidays.” The state Department of Human Services Office of Child Development and
Early Learning listed the day care as in compliance with requirements
following a Dec. 28, 2018, inspection. But a Jan. 3, 2019, inspection note on that listing highlighted “ashes
and cigarette or cigar butts” in “a child care space, play space or
food preparation area.” The day care center’s response to the note reads, “I will make sure it
will be cleaned up and remain that way,” and the department listed the
issue as corrected. Another department note from the same date reads “protective
receptacle covers shall be placed in electrical outlets accessible to
children 5 years of age or younger,” to which the day care’s response
was, “I turned the outlets so they were closed. I will make sure that
they are turned closed when not in use.” That issue was also listed as being corrected. Widomski told the newspaper that the fire appeared to have started in
the living room area on the first floor. The department’s two fire
inspectors and three Erie police detectives trained in fire
investigations are working to determine the cause of the blaze. The owner of the center was flown to UPMC Mercy for treatment, Santone said. Erie police detectives said the owner was in stable condition, the
newspaper reported. Santone said a neighbor was also injured.