Dr. Jay Osi-Samuels, founding National Chairman of Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on the 43 Ministers recently confirmed by the Senate, solution to insecurity and other issues. Excerpts: Are you impressed with the ministerial list sent to the Senate by President Muhammadu Buhari? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I am very unimpressed. The list looks more like a Presidential Campaign Council for 2023. Some Nigerians have argued that the President only compensated some politicians who lost out in the last election rather than appointing technocrats. What is your take on that? In my own opinion, it is a window into the mind of the president for the 2023 elections. Apart from compensating politicians, what he has done is a masterstroke with this list. He has potentially created or empowered individual power blocks especially in the south, ensuring that power is not concentrated in the hands of any one individual. This will become more evident by the time the portfolios are announced. What this portends is that absolute power to decide who becomes president in 2023 will now rest with him rather than be at the mercy of anyone. Do you think the President should have accommodated some bright minds in other political parties instead of just APC members alone? If the interest was about nation building and good governance, that is what any rational thinking person expected. But, like a national newspaper recently captioned it on one of their cover, Buhari picks politics over policy with ministerial list. And I completely agree with that. Do you support the idea of ‘bow and go’ privileges given to some of the nominees by the Senate? That is the greatest disservice this 9th Senate has done to the masses so far. And I am not surprised. The senate is living up to its billing as a rubber stamp senate. In the first instance, from the moment the senate sets one week for the screening, I already had my misgivings because that is hardly enough time to do a proper screening. As we speak, only a handful of the nominees have declared their assets as statutorily required. I expected this to have been done before the screening began. And I also expected that the senate should have demanded for portfolios to be attached to the names and nominees should have been initially properly vetted by the respective committees responsible for oversight over their assigned portfolios like is done in other climes especially the USA that we are copying. But we like to pick and choose which part suits our over bloated egos. What is currently going on as screening is at best a charade and mockery of democracy. Do you think the Federal Government has been forthright in addressing the issue of insecurity and especially suspected herdsmen? Not only has the Federal government not been forthright, it has actually been aiding and abetting and as well protecting the suspected Fulani herdsmen and thereby indirectly responsible for the insecurity in the land. I cannot fathom why it is so difficult for the government to address the herdsmen menace if one looks at the way the government responded to groups like IPOB or even the IMN. We have seen cases where Miyetti Allah and similar pro-herdsmen groups have done or made very provocative pronouncements that one will expect the government to act but instead we see the government playing deaf and dumb. This only goes to show that the government is in support of the herdsmen. Do you think state governors should come up with their security arrangements in addressing these challenges? It’s clearly evident that the Federal government is very reluctant in tackling the issues or at best dragging its feet in responding to the issues. So, I will not fault any state governor coming up with their own security arrangements. This has brought to the fore the issue of restructuring. There is an urgent need for us to review what should be in the Exclusive, Concurrent and Residual Lists. As long as we continue to shy away from having that discussion or taking action on previous discussions like implementing some of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference, especially the part that talks about security, we will continue to go around in circles. Do you think the Service Chiefs should be replaced? They are long overdue for replacement. Some Nigerians are asking President Muhammadu Buhari to implement some recommendations of the 2014 National Conference, especially the part that addressed security. Are you in support of that? The solution to the insecurity in the land is very simple. All we need is a President that is truly the Commander In-Chief and would exercise is power with justice, fairness and equity and the political will to address the root cause of the issues without fair or favor. A president that will truly be father of the nation in the real sense without no religious, ethnic or tribal considerations. These qualities are what is presently lacking and no amount of national conferences or security summits would suffice if all the above are lacking. Will your party be participating in the Kogi and Bayelsa elections? I am no longer involved in the day to day running of the party but I can tell you that the Alliance for New Nigeria will not be participating in either elections or any upcoming elections for that matter because the impostors that are currently running the party only dances to the tune of their masters and I don’t think they are interested in those elections.