LAGOS – Two suspects, who specialized in drugging taxi drivers and thereafter robbed them have confessed how they operated. The suspects who confessed to be operating at the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja, were arrested by operatives of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Special Intelligence Response Team, IRT. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It was gathered that the suspects Sanusi Balla and Nurudeen Ibrahim, were nabbed after they allegedly drugged and killed a soldier, Sergeant Richard Akaeze of the Nigeria Army, and make away with his Peugeot 406 saloon car Police sources disclosed that the suspects usually lure their victims to drinking joints and drugg them through food or drinks and made away with their vehicles. Crime Tracker gathered that Sergeant Akaeze, one of their victims was given overdose of undisclosed drug which resulted in his death. The suspects were said to have buried the remains of the soldier in yet to be disclosed site. “His mobile phones and his car which he occasionally used as cab were taken away by the suspects,” oursourcesdisclosed. The sources disclosed that the IGP was alerted about Akaeze’s disappearance, few days after he failed to return home by his colleagues and operatives. Based on the directive of IGP, the head of IRT, Abba Kyari, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) commenced investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding his disappearance. It was gathered that Akaeze’s stolen mobile phone was tracked and was recovered from one of the suspects, Balla. Balla is said to own a car stand in Kaura Local GovernmentAreaof ZamfaraStateand was equally a staff of the Local Government. Balla was said to have confessed that his friend, Ibrahim, who residedin Abuja gave him the mobile phone when he brought a Peugeot406forhimtobuy. “He said, he did not buy the car because he had no money at that time.” Balla, was said to have further told the police that aside his car selling business and local government Clark job, he had taken part in several car thefts with Ibrahim at the FCT where they drugged their victims before robbing them of their vehicles. He however denied taking part t in the operation that led to the death of Akaeze. Police sources disclosed that Balla assisted the police in arresting Ibrahim in Abuja. Sanusi Balla, 37, who is said to be married with eight children allegedly told the police that: “ I work at the Finance Department of my Local Government as a clerk in that department. I have a friend NurudeenIbrahimwhomImetinmy secondary school. He called me and said he has a car for sale. It was a Golf 3 saloon car. I bought it for N220,000 Three months later, he called again and asked me to buy a Honda Civic car for N230,000. Five months after he called again and sold a Peugeot 206 for me. But last year he called and told me to join him in stealing the cars since I was just enjoying the sales. I joined him and when we got to Abuja, we bought a drug known as Tributan . When we enter a cab we engaged the cab in a conversation, then we will make him our friend and offer him a chance to drink with us in a bar. While in the bar drinking, we will ask him to get us something we left behind in his car and when he leaves, we will drug his drink or his food and he sleeps off, we will take him in his car and dump in the outskirt of the town and l make away with his vehicle