There are palpable fear among operators of the airline sector that the Federal Government may have signaled the death kneel for indigenous carriers   at a very high speed. This is coming on the heels of the policy introduced by the Federal Government in the nation’s aviation industry, especially the airline sub-sector. In this report, OYENIRAN APATA, OLUSEGUN KOIKI, and CHRIS EBONG write examines the body language of the government that may lead to financial instability in the sector. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Nigerian airlines are struggling to remain in the air. The nation’s carriers are fast losing seats, passengers and revenues to foreign carriers even in the domestic market, which they formerly dominated. For those that ventured to spread their wings outside the shores of the country, they returned with sorry tales. The kind gestures extended to foreign carriers operating into Nigeria by the Nigerian Government, are not reciprocated to the nation’s carriers in foreign countries they fly into. The likes of Med-View, Bellview, Virgin Nigeria and a few others that operated international routes suffered abrupt disruption, just as Air Peace, which on July 5, 2019 made a foray into United Arab Emirates (UAE), is yet to regain its foothold from the sordid story that is yet to abate. Rather than encourage indigenous participation, the Nigerian government has continued to open its airspace to foreign carriers all in the name of Commercial Agreement, Open Sky Policy and Bilateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs) arrangements with foreigners. As at the last count, the number of available seats on 17 foreign carriers weekly was put at 55,220, while 25 foreign carriers operate 279 frequencies to the nation’s international airports weekly. Among the airlines with high number of available seats weekly are Emirates, Ethiopian and KLM Airlines with a combined seats of 17, 357. As 55,220 Seat Muzzles Local Airlines A report obtained by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT indicated that the 55,220 weekly available seats are reserved for foreign airlines from Europe, America, Middle East and a few from Africa. The figure represents about 90 per cent of total available seats, while their Nigerian counterparts jostle for the remaining 10 per cent. The report indicated that Emirates, Ethiopian Airlines and KLM have a combined 17,357 passengers weekly with available seats of 3,631 and 62 weekly frequencies. The Middle East carrier, Emirates Airlines with B777-300ER aircraft to Lagos and Abuja, has 21 frequencies; two daily flights to Lagos and one daily flight to Abuja, apart from the recently daily flight from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), which it claimed was for annual hajj operations to Saudi Arabia. The airline has 9,471 weekly available seats out of Nigeria with 451 available seats on each aircraft on the two Nigerian routes. The leading East African carrier, Ethiopian Airlines had the second highest number of available seats out of Nigeria with 7,886 from four airports in the country. According to the report, Ethiopian Airlines operate from Lagos, Abuja, Enugu and Kano with Boeing B777-300ER aircraft, B777-300ER, B737 and B787, respectively. It indicated that Ethiopian Airlines has 451 available seats each on Lagos and Abuja, 189 seats on Enugu and 335 seats on Kano airports, weekly. Ethiopian Airlines operates 20 frequencies into Nigeria weekly; seven each to Lagos and Abuja, and three each to Enugu and Kano weekly. Besides, the report showed that KLM with 5,796 weekly passengers out of Nigeria through three points; Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja deploys Airbus A330-300, A330-300 and A330-200 with 292, 292 and 268 available seats, respectively. KLM, according to the document, operates 21 weekly frequencies into Nigeria from the three airports. Also, British Airways, which flies into two points in Nigeria; Lagos and Abuja has a total of 4,837 available seats weekly with its B747-400 and B777, deployed to the two airports, respectively. The B747-400 aircraft has an available seat of 374, while B777 is with 317 seats. Another British carrier, Virgin Atlantic Airways, with daily flight to Lagos uses A330-300 aircraft has a total weekly passenger movement of 2,044. Air France weekly available seat was 3,116 into two entry points in Nigeria; Lagos and Abuja and 11 frequencies weekly. The airline also deploys A330-300 aircraft to Lagos with 292 available seats and A330-200 aircraft with 268 available seats. The German carrier, Lufthansa with 13 weekly frequencies into Nigeria from Lagos and Abuja has 3, 796 weekly seat. The airline deploys A330-300 to Lagos with available seats of 292, while its A330-200 deployed to Abuja has 268 available seats on the route. In addition, Royal Air Maroc, which operates to flies seven frequencies to Lagos, operates B737 aircraft to the city with available 189 seats. Weekly, the airline has a weekly capacity to airlifts 1,323 passengers with its B737 aircraft deployed to Lagos routes. Qatar Airways with sole operation to Lagos Airport, uses B787 with 335 available seats, and seven frequencies weekly with available passengers of 2,345 weekly. Another Middle East carrier, Turkish Airlines has 4,355 weekly capacity from two points in Nigeria; Lagos and Abuja with its A330 aircraft. The airline operates 13 weekly frequencies from Nigeria; seven from Lagos and another six from Abuja. Another African carrier, Egypt Air, which operates from its base in Cairo, operates four weekly frequencies to Lagos with its A330 aircraft and 335 available seats. On a weekly basis, the airline is expected to airlift 1,340 passengers out of Lagos. The American carrier, Delta Air Lines, on its Lagos route, operates A330 with available seats of 335, seven frequencies weekly and capacity for 2,345 passengers out of Nigeria on a weekly basis. Kenya Airways, uses B738 aircraft on its seven weekly frequencies to Lagos and available seats of 162 persons and airlifts 1,134 passengers weekly. Besides, Rwandair, with 10 weekly frequencies to Lagos and Abuja, deploys B738 aircraft on the two routes, which has capacity for 324 seats – 162 each. From the two cities, Rwandair, airlifts 972 passengers from its six weekly flights from Lagos and another 648 passenger capacity from four weekly frequencies from Abuja airport. Etihad Airways, which flies into Nigeria from its base in Abu Dhabi, operates seven weekly frequencies to Lagos Airport alone with its A332 aircraft, which has capacity of 335 passengers weekly. The aircraft has a weekly passenger capacity of 2,345. Besides, South African Airways, which operates seven weekly frequencies to Lagos from Johannesburg, uses A330-300 aircraft on the route with 292 available seats daily and 2,044 weekly seats sold. Saudi Airline also deploys B777 to Kano from Jeddah. The airline operates five weekly frequencies to Kano with available seats of 451 and airlifts 2,255 passengers weekly. At the moment, only Air Peace operates intercontinental flights to Sharjah-Dubai out of all the indigenous airlines in Nigeria, while the airline, Overland Airways and Aero Contractors, operate to West Coast routes. Apparently displeased at the lopsidedness of the domination, players in the sector said that the continuous control of the nation’s airspace by foreign carriers has had excruciating effect on stakeholders’ finances in the industry. The analysts claimed that at least, Nigeria loses $3bn in capital flights to foreign carriers, and urged the government to rescind some of its agreements and policies with governments across the world. They also identified and attributed lack of protection for the domestic carriers by the government as contributing factor to the high unemployment rate in the industry. Recall that about two years ago, Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) had decried that no fewer than 500 pilots were unemployed in the industry and attributed this to lack of type-rating on their part. A source close to one of the airlines, over the weekend, confided in our correspondent that it takes another N5m for a pilot to be type-rated on any aircraft brand. Capt. Nogie Meggison, the Chairman, AON, in an interview with our correspondent in Lagos, decried that Nigeria was losing about $3bn capital flight annually to foreign carriers. Besides, Meggison kicked against the extra frequencies issued Emirates, barely two weeks after Air Peace commenced the route, describing it as an “unfair arrangement.” But, the airline maintained that the extra frequencies were just only for the ongoing annual hajj operations to Saudi Arabia. The AON leader declared that the agreement the government reached with the UAE carrier was detrimental to the stability of indigenous carriers, observing that the sole Nigerian airline on the route, Air Peace only commenced operations to Sharjah and Dubai less than a month ago. Meggison emphasised that a Nigerian carrier, Air Peace began flights to UAE operated with 100 per cent Nigerian pilots, cabin crew, engineers and dispatchers, insisting that it was very unfair for Emirates to be allowed such increase barely two weeks after the launch of the Nigerian airline to the route. He declared that the approval places indigenous carriers at a massive disadvantage, while the entire Nigerian economy would suffer, adding that it would also lead to job loss for professionals and massive capital flight out of the country. He added: “You will recall that at the launch of Air Peace flights to UAE, AON appealed that government must stand tall to play the role of aero-politics to support Air Peace, otherwise it will end up the same way as others such as Bellview, Arik Air and Med-View that went before it as they were unable to play in the wild and aggressive field of international aero-politics. “Emirates as of today, operates two daily flights out of Lagos and two daily flights out of Abuja. Etihad, from the same country, also operates daily flights out of Lagos as well. This translates to five flights daily and a total of 150 flights per month from UAE; as against a Nigerian Carrier that only Do three flights weekly (12 flights monthly into UAE). He said: “This is a colossal plundering of the Nigerian economy through capital flight and a huge loss of Nigerian jobs.” Meggison, recalled that three major carriers in the United States; United, American and Delta, cried out against the same open skies and anti-competitive behaviour of the three Gulf carriers; Emirates, Turkish and Qatar Airways some years back. Meggison claimed that the US airlines had accused the carrier of being funded by its government to the tune of over $50bn and undercutting US carriers by offering below market fares on flights that went to other destinations beyond the Middle East, at the expense of American jobs and the American economy. He explained that in 2017, the economic policy of the Donald Trump administration to protect the American economy, jobs and the airlines subsequently forced the Emirati airlines to reduce their flights by about 30 per cent. “The above scenario is a classic example of domestic airlines crying out against unfair competition and having their government standing behind them with full support to effect change and ensure that domestic airlines with private funds get a fair deal, against foreign competition from state-owned airlines. “It is unfair to unleash a band of ravenous and voracious wolves against a harmless and privately funded puppy that is still trying to find its feet and doing all it can to survive, create economic impact and jobs for our youths. It is the role of government, therefore, to protect Nigerian carriers, preserve the Nigerian economy and the jobs of our unemployed youths. “We would, therefore, like to use this medium to call on the government to review all existing Bilateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs) to readdress the unfair trade advantage given to foreign airlines against Nigerian airlines,” he said. Other Stakeholders’ Reactions Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), the former Commandant of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, told our correspondent that most of the foreign carriers have turned Nigeria into their domestic operations. He decried that virtually all the foreign airlines coming into Nigeria operate into at least two points in Nigeria, stressing that Ethiopian Airlines alone flies into five points in Nigeria and numerous others. Ojikutu decried that while Nigeria was busy opening up its airports to various foreign airlines, their counterparts elsewhere are restricting Nigerian carriers from flying into airports of their choice. “Now, you have five international airports, which foreign carriers ply. They have more or less taken over your domestic markets. If you have an Ethiopian Airlines that is flying into five of your airports, what has it done? “In those days when it landed your Enugu passengers in Lagos Airport, you now take them to Enugu, if it dropped your Kano, Kaduna and other cities passengers in Abuja, your airline will go and pick them and drop them in their various cities. Now, what has it done? It has taken over your domestic markets. Those are the consequences or the danger in giving multiple landings to foreign airlines when you don’t have reciprocity.” Also, Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, the Director of Research, Zenith Travels, attributed the sordid situation to inconsistencies in government’s policies. He bemoaned that in spite of the kick against the multiple entries policies by majority of players in the sector, most State Governments are enticing foreign carriers into their states. He expressed that with such policy, the government is indirectly killing the domestic carriers and urged the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika to reverse the “unfriendly” policy. “When you look at a country whereby you are not united in policy, industry and the growth of the sector, then, you begin to enter some of these little crises at the peril of the domestic carriers. “Here we are saying that we don’t want multiple entries for foreign carriers, yet, some governors want every foreign carrier to operate into their states. With this, there is no way the domestic airlines will grow. We are killing our own carriers with our attitude.” Ohunayo also called on the umbrella body of indigenous carriers in the country; Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) to lobby the government and ensure that the policy is reversed in their favour. “Multiple entries are not something that is good for our industry. What are you giving our domestic airlines in return? You see, Med-View Airline cannot enter into Dubai. They are giving it another city, which is far from Dubai and the same emirates is re-applying to recommence Abuja route when our own carrier can’t go to Dubai. This is unfair. We need to negotiate. “Also, Air Peace is being frustrated on the West Coast, which is not right. Once a Nigerian carrier leaves the country, it should be designated as a flag carrier even if it is a privately-owned airline. It should get whatever right you were giving the former Nigeria Airways.” “It is not for the airlines to retaliate, but the government of Nigeria should fight back. “I will not belong to the school that says we must fix up everything immediately, but we must commence a gradual process, which must start, we must begin to renegotiate. Any of the agreement that expires now, you don’t just give it back again. You need to look at the opportunities that are there for your own country in that country. How long are we going to wait at the expense of the airlines and the industry as a whole? It is the airlines that make the industry and not the agencies. So, we must work towards growing the airlines”. In his own view, Dr. Harold Demuren, former Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), said that the decision to allow foreign carriers multiple entries to Nigeria was a political decision, which he said overrides economic decisions. He explained that as the Director-General of NCAA, he was to implement the policies of the government, but could give his advice when necessary. He recalled that the former national carrier, Nigeria Airways was blamed for flying to unprofitable routes by various stakeholders, but said that such routes are now being flown to by various carriers in the country. He said: “To be honest with you, we all blamed the Nigeria government then when it forced Nigeria Airways to fly to some un-profitable routes without passengers because of the then politics, but today, the routes are well patronized by air travellers. “We might say the decision is not good economics for us, but they are political decisions, which are good for the country.” He, however, explained that the only way the indigenous carriers could succeed in the competitive sector was for them to interline with foreign carriers just as Air Nigeria is doing with Delta Air Lines from America. Concerned stakeholders in the aviation industry have tasked the new Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, to consider a review of Bilateral Air Service Agreement with other countries. According to Gbenga Olowo, the President, Aviation Round Table return of Sirika should signal a positive direction for the aviation industry in Nigeria. However, in defense of the status quo, Emirates Airlines said that foreign carriers operating flights into Nigeria are offering the nation’s travelling public greater choice and also supporting the growth of tourism and trade in the country. The airline also debunked the claim that it was receiving government subsidies, which enabled it to perpetuate “unfair competition.” These were contained in a statement sent to our correspondent in Lagos by the media consultant to the airline on behalf of the UAE carrier. The statement insisted that operations of international carriers were crucial to the tourism and trade sectors of the country, stressing that since it commenced flight operations into Lagos in 2004, it had remained consistent and committed to the country’s market. The statement declared that its second flight to Abuja was only for the ongoing annual hajj operations to Saudi Arabia, which started on July 27 and would run through August 22, 2019. The statement said: “Emirates would like to clarify that we have not increased scheduled flight services to Abuja or Lagos. We had only operated extra flights to Abuja and Lagos for a very limited period, for the sole purpose of serving Nigerian pilgrims traveling to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for Hajj. “International carriers operating in Nigeria offer a greater choice for consumers, and are also crucial to supporting Nigerian tourism and trade. Emirates first started operations to Lagos in 2004, and we have since remained committed to Nigeria. “During this time, we have helped facilitate trade between Nigeria and other international markets, and provided travellers coming into, or travelling from, Nigeria the option of enjoying the Emirates experience.” On the claim that the airline receives government subsidies, which led to unfair competition, Emirates declared that the allegation was unfounded. It said its management had repeatedly debunked the claim, stressing that it had regularly audited its financial reports for the past 20 years and available on its website. The airline pointed out that its operations had always been run on a commercial basis and attributed its successes to its consistency to its customers, which it offered the “best possible services, while closely watching our costs so that we can return a profit to our shareholder.”