LAGOS – As more reactions continue to trail the appointment of Mr. Sunday Dare as Sports Minister, stakeholders have also set agenda for him. Spokesman of the Access Bank Lagos Marathon, Olukayode Thomas, also a former Sports Editor of the Guardian, while setting agenda for Dare said that the only impact he could make was to right the wrongs already done in our sports circle. “There is nothing like a true or false Sports Minister. Being in sport all your life does not mean you will be a good Sports Minister if you don’t have genuine intentions to right the wrongs in sports. “Since independence we have had medical professionals as Health Ministers, what is the state of healthcare in Nigeria? Ditto professionals in Power, Housing, Petroleum, Environment, Transport and others. Your knowledge of an industry is irrelevant if you don’t have genuine intentions to make a change and leave a positive legacy,” he said. Veteran Sports journalist, Raji Mohammed, said he would never compromise. “With some form of understanding, and from the days of the ‘Dispatches from the Underground’, he had a thorough grasp of how sports work. “Our new Sports Minister is tough, tested and will never be compromised. The man who took his pen and audaciously faced the bullets,” said Mohammed. Another veteran sports journalist, Harry Iwuala said Nigerians should be able to gain from the new Sports Minister’s knowledge. “If we don’t gain anything in sports this term, Dare’s urbane, articulate and media skills will be a soothing departure from the garish Beret that we endured over the past three years,” he said. Agboola Shittu-Adewunmi, coach of Nigeria national handball team, urged him to give equal attention to all sports. “The new minister will write his name in gold if only he can give equal support to all sports, have a systemic audit system to checkmate high level corruption in every sport federation. “He should endeavour to employ national team coaches for every sports, as it will give proper direction to the national team. “The National Institute of Sports, the major sports school in Nigeria should be professionalised with seasoned and experienced and up-to-date coaches to train coaches. “Athletes remuneration and welfare should be gazetted, giving no room for any underhand dealings against the athletes,” Shittu-Adewunmi advised the minister of sports. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) has congratulated him. Kida expressed optimism that the newly appointed minister will hit the ground running at such a critical time that sports was needed to contribute to the Gross Domestic Product of Nigeria. “We are excited about this timely appointment just days before the men senior basketball team start their FIBA World Cup in campaign in China. We believe that his good luck charm will work for the team in China as they hope to shock the world. “In my personal capacity as Musa Kida and as President of the Nigeria Basketball Federation, we wish him a successful tenure while in office serving our fatherland.”