Barrister Alaowei Ebikonbowei Cleric, a human rights activist and public affairs analyst, is the National President, Centre For Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (CHURAC). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the ability of President Muhammadu Buhari’s new ministers to perform, among other issues. Excerpt: Do you see President Muhammadu Buhari’s new ministers being able to drive the country’s economic development? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I want to be indifferent to what people hold on the ministers. I am reserving my judgment on their capabilities because I don’t know much about them. I hope that Buhari knows them well and believes in their potentials to drive his policies home since he vowed that he can only work with people he knows. Even his first term ministers whom he appointed again have issues to contend with. Nigerians have mixed reactions about them. I don’t know whether Buhari chose his ministers just to compensate those who worked for him. If that was the case, then I do not see them performing wonders. They would rather be a liability to the government as most of the appointments are seen as compensations for a job well done. If his choice of ministers were based on intellectual capacity, then we can expect performance. I think many of the ministers are intellectuals with proven technocrats to deliver his Next Level agenda. The question we shall be asking is whether the ministers will be given free hand to operate? Will those overbearing cabals at the corridor of power allow some of these lily-livered ministers, who are perhaps their lackeys, to operate in their ministries without interference? Before we pass any judgment on their performance, I advise that we should wait till they have been given portfolios. What is your take on the way the Senate cleared all the 43 nominees? Well, the way the Senate cleared all of them by telling them to “Bow and Leave” would not have been so for all them if I were the one to clear them. It was a surprise to me how most of those ministers were cleared. The “Bow and Go” syndrome currently being practised in the Senate was their greatest undoing. I just hope that what we witnessed was not a signal that Nigerians have been foist with a rubber stamp National Assembly to the executive, which will be subject to the whims and caprices of the Presidency. Honestly, I felt disappointed the way the Senate confirmed the ministers with such undignified haste. Most of the ministers, in my opinion, ought not to be cleared. To be specific, the former Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, should not have been cleared. His explanation on how the government under his watch flouted court orders with impunity could be seen as disdainful, which should have disqualified him. Would you say the ministerial slots given to South South/Niger Delta by President Buhari could assuage the feelings of neglect and marginalisation in the region? Our problems in the Niger Delta cannot be tied to ministerial slots. Niger Delta people are still largely being marginalised in all fronts under the Buhari’s government. The ministers he appointed from the Niger Delta states, just like other states of the federation, are our constitutional rights. There is nothing spectacular about the ministerial appointments. Buhari still judge people on the ratio of votes. What he told the Olu of Warri recently in Abuja shows that his consideration for giving appointments and distribution of government dividends are still on the basis of voting ratios. As a region, which gave him lesser votes during the last elections, I do not expect Buhari giving us better appointments aside the ministerial positions, which are due to constitutional requirements. Before the recent court bail granted to the long detained El-Zakyzaky, the Shi’ites leader, the Federal Government declared the sect as a terrorist group. Do you see government’s action being capable of calming the Shi’ites who had been protesting the incarceration of their leader and his wife? His continued detention after subsisting court rulings ordering for his release, was a threat to constitutional democracy. It is, however, reassuring that at last he was given bail recently to enable the sect leader receive treatment abroad. If he was allowed to die in detention, it would have been bad as the Shi’ites would have been uncontrollable. I doubt if the security agencies could have withstood them. However, the Shi’ites’ violent protests are becoming worrisome. If the proscription followed due process of the law as provided by the Act, I am in support of it. It does not violate anybody’s right to religious practice. The proscription was made to engender public safety. Of course, the world witnessed their bloody street protests in Abuja recently. Even a Deputy Commissioner of Police was gruesomely murdered in the process. As a government, which primary responsibility is to protect lives and properties, it cannot sit and fold its arms. The state has to take drastic action to contain the Shi’ites’ excesses. On the side of the government, while I am commending it for taking drastic steps to arrest the situation, I advise that its action must be in line with the dictate of the nation’s laws. It must not take an unlawful step to address lawful situation. As far as the government is acting within the confines of statutory provisions, I am sure the step taken will address the menace. Nobody is stronger than government. Let the Shi’ites jettison their unlawful actions. Killing and maiming innocent Nigerians as well as the destruction of property will not force the government to yield to their demands. Let them use democratic means to pursue their case. How best do you think the current security challenges in the country could best be handled? The general insecurity rocking the country at moment is being allowed to fester by the lack-lustre attitude of the present government. If the government has been proactive in addressing the nation’s security situation headlong, the nation would not have been where it is today. Buhari is handling the menace with kid gloves, perhaps because the perpetrators are from his Fulani ethnic nation. If you ask me how the government can address the situation, I would say the President should overhaul the security architecture in the country. The Service Chiefs and other paraphernalia of the security sector are becoming redundant. They have probably run out of ideas to tackle the growing menace. We need fresh minds that will bring in new ideas to confront the issue. In doing this, Mr. President should not be influenced by religious and ethnic chauvinism. Let those who are qualified be given the jobs and the appointments should have geographic and ethnic spread. Do you foresee the possibility of South East and South South producing the president in 2023, as both PDP and APC are likely to pick their candidates from other zones?
I think this should be a story for another day. I don’t see South East or South South producing the president of this country anytime soon. For the South East to be specific, I don’t see it as being realistic. The journey to the Presidency is still very far from being started. They need divine intervention for that to come to pass. It is a tall dream for one to conclude that any of these two regions will produce the next president in 2023. While I will love to see that happen, I advise that people should not be daydreaming. To me, it is still a wishful thinking. Of course, you know that either the APC or the PDP will not feature their presidential candidates from these zones in 2023. Let us not deceive ourselves. That is a fact. The next president of the country still hovers around the northern and western parts of the country.