The Federal Government recently signed a power deal with Siemens, a German-based firm that would ensure incremental power generation and boost industrialisation in Nigeria. In this report, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR, examine the prospects and challenges the deal would have in the nation’s electricity value chain. N Powered by RubiQube Ad Network igeria’s power sector is still on life-support six years after its transfer from government’s ownership to private investors. The private investors attribute their woes to weak technical capacity of the sector which they underestimated while they bought the assets of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). Usman Mohammed, the Managing Director of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), said: “most power assets were sold to investors that lacked the capacity for long term investments, adding that this had created serious liquidity strain in the power market” . To confirm the failure of the private power companies, the Ministry of Power stated recently that the Discos have accumulated so much debt and have become insolvent. Regrettably, total power generation dropped to 3,264.4 megawatts as of 6 am on Monday, August 12 from 3,580.5MW on Sunday. It stood at 2,842.1MW as of 6 am last Thursday. Five and a half years after privatization, the 11 Discos have been described as ‘technically insolvent.’ The ministry, in its new ‘Power Sector Policy Directives and Timelines,’ said there was an urgent need to recapitalise the Discos. It described the inability of the Discos to improve customer service and meet operational costs as a direct consequence of their inability to raise capital. Penultimate Monday, the Federal Government to enlisted the services of German firm, Siemens, to increase power output to at least 11,000 megawatts by 2023. President Muhammadu Buhari and Siemens’ global head, Joe Kaeser, sealed the contract with a Memorandum of Understanding at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Stakeholders in the power sector are of the opinion that the government may have begun aggressive moves to change the face of the nation’s power sector with the agreement it reached with Siemens, a global power and technology company reputed for good service delivery. Lamentations of Mr. President Buhari said only an average of 4,000 megawatts reliably reaches consumers at present. He lamented that despite the abundance of natural gas, hydro and solar resources for power generation, the country was still on the journey to achieving reliable, affordable, and quality electricity supply necessary for economic growth, industrialisation and poverty alleviation. He punctured previous attempts by successive governments to boost power infrastructure which, he said, yielded no tangible results. “There have been many attempts at solving the electricity problem in our country. Previous governments have explored state-funded solutions through the ill-prepared National Independent Power Projects. “They also explored the installation of large emergency power projects. There was also the partial privatisation of the power generation and distribution sectors. “These various interventions towards solving the electricity problem have yielded an imbalance between the amount of power generated and the amount available for consumers. “Despite over 13,000 megawatts of power generation capacity, only an average of 4,000 megawatts reliably reaches consumers. “Now, we have an excellent opportunity to address this challenge. This government’s priority was to stabilise the power generation and gas supply sector through the Payment Assurance Facility, which led to a peak power supply of 5,222 megawatts. Nonetheless, the constraints remained at the transmission and distribution systems. Why The Deal “This is why I directed my team to ask Siemens and our Nigerian stakeholders to first focus on fixing the transmission and distribution infrastructure – especially around economic centres where jobs are created. “Whilst it was evident that more needed to be done to upgrade the sub-transmission and distribution system, our government was initially reluctant to intervene as the distribution sector is already privatised. “I am therefore very pleased with the positive feedback from private sector owners of the distribution companies, who have all endorsed government’s intervention to engage Siemens on this end-to-end plan to modernise the electricity grid. “Our goal is simply to deliver electricity to Nigerian businesses and homes. My challenge to Siemens, our partner investors in the distribution companies, the Transmission Company of Nigeria, and the electricity regulator is to work hard to achieve 7,000 megawatts of reliable power supply by 2021 and 11,000 megawatts by 2023 – in phases 1 and 2, respectively.” Siemens Explains Roles Responding, Kaeser said the roadmap would enable the country deliver the country’s capacity of power in the first phase of 7,000 megawatts, second phase up to 11,000 megawatts, and third phase up to 25,000 megawatts. He explained that the project would significantly enhance the country’s power supply and get it on the next industrial phase. “We believe we will all benefit together significantly, the people of Nigeria and, of course, Siemens as a company. “I’m very honoured that we were able to sign this road map today in the presence of Mr. President and our partners. I will personally make sure that this will be the big success of Nigeria, Siemens and our partners in the country.” On the cost implication of the project and timeframe for completing it, Kaeser said: “We have really talked about solutions and how it can bring power to the people literally, from generation to transmission and effective distribution. “Yes, we have been talking money at this time because this is about a long term partnership and is a roadmap which we are going to work all the way till 2025. “The first phase is supposed to be done by 2021, second phase till end of 2022, and the final phase by 2025.” Stakeholders in the power sector are worried that details of the deal which cuts across the entire power sector value chain remain scanty, and therefore, urged the Federal Government to adopt renewable energy to accelerate development in the sector. Mr Adekunle Makinde, a former Chairman of Nigerian Institution of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (NIEEE), recalled that there was the consensus of stakeholders at the 2018 Nigeria Energy Forum in Lagos. Makinde quoted Mr Suleiman Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer of Camel Energy, as expressing regret over the exodus of companies to Ghana due to poor power supply in Nigeria. “It is disappointing that an economy of over 190 million generates less than 10,000mw and distributes even less. “Continuous tinkering with structure of power supply and distribution and close to 20 billion dollars expended since 1999 has only brought darkness, frustration, misery and resignation to Nigerians. “Nigeria imports over 70 per cent of its petroleum products requirement, while electricity supply is inadequate at just about 3,000mw now. “Over 20,000mw of power is generated daily from fossil fired plants to meet up with electricity demand,’’ he said. Yusuf urged the Federal Government to embrace renewable energy to fill the gap created by this deficit. Some of the stakeholders argued that there is yet to be a detailed plan of how the programme will be financed, the role of the private operators who control the Distribution Companies (DisCos) and the GenCos, except for TCN which is a full government utility. Dr Joy Ogaji,the Executive Secretary of Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), expressed concern that the Generation Companies (GenCos) were not robustly catered for in the MOU, although she admitted that the details remain sketchy. She said: “There are so many questions, especially as it relates to the commercial impact and also the viability of the GenCos in getting this level of capacity to government without their issue being looked at. “From 2013 to 2017, they have consistently been taking 3,000MW even when I make 7,000MW available. So now, how do I procure more gas to make that 7,000MW available when I don’t have effective gas contract because of the payment volatility. “Even the network is an issue. They proposed to work on TCN and distribution networks but the issues are many. We are reviewing it and we will possibly publish our concerns when we are done,” Dr. Ogaji stated. Track records of Siemens’ project delivery Our reporter gathered that Siemens Nigeria got contracts for the installation of the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) three times, for the national grid under the defunct PHCN and present Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). However, TCN has repeatedly said the SCADA project failed due to a myriad of issues. The SCADA and Energy Management System (EMS) were meant to automate the transmission grid so the System Operator (SO) of TCN can monitor all operations on the national electricity grid. With SCADA and EMS, it could generate data, track offenders, and monitor all the core networks of generation, transmission and distribution. Experts say that could avert the many system collapses that have continually put the entire Nigerian nation in blackout for several hours daily. An insider at Siemens, who was privy to the SCADA contracts, confirmed the incomplete execution of the projects due to management issues at TCN, lack of capacity of TCN staff and none availability of the fibre optics and other core infrastructure for the communication backbone. Also, new substations including the NIPPs were built and not integrated and the systems were not automated. “A lot of things contributed then, but basically communication is one key. And there is human element because TCN was grossly understaffed in terms of capable hands for SCADA. Sources maintained that if the Federal Government was to intervene in the power sector, considering that projects are financed by tariffs paid by Nigerians, there was need for the competitive procurement of those who would execute such projects. . Cautions The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Company (NERC) should not hesitate to sanction erring power distribution companies (DisCos), now that the Federal Government and Siemens Incorporation have held talks on how scale up power generstion in Nigeria, by 11,000 megawatts (Mw) of electricity, the Change Partners International Founder, Mr Akachukwu Okafor, has said. Okafor said many of the eleven energy distribution companies have committed grievous offences in the past and went scot free, adding that any attempts to spare those firms again would affect the image of the industry. He said: “Siemens is a world class firm, with competence in generation and technologies. The company has the capacity to deal with issues we have with the grid in Nigeria. The contracts with Siemiens would strengthen the grid infrastructure, transmission lines and distribution networks in Nigeria. This is the reason why the power distribution firms must be penalised in order to enable them do the right thing.’ Prospects According to him, the contract between Nigerian Government and Siemens would help in boosting the operation of the power sectors well. The Federal Government, Okafor said, must try and meet its obligations in order to ensure the success of the deal, adding that the German Government has also put in place measures in order to ensure that the contract is delivered at the right time. He commended Federal Government for partnering with Siemens, stressing that the initiative is the best since President Buhari assumed office five years ago. He said; “The synergy between the Federal Government and Siemens to improve electricity in Nigeria is a good one. It is commendable as it is the best since Mr President assumed office about five years ago”, he said. In order to address the challenges of electricity power supply in the country, stakeholders in the sector have made a case for the political and technical empowerment of the industry regulator, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), to be able to effectively carry out its functions. It would be recalled that this position formed the kernel of the presentations at a Symposium on the “Challenges and Way Forward to Adequate Electricity Supply for Socio-Economic Development in Nigeria” organised by the Department of Electrical & Electronics Engineering, University of Ilorin. The symposium, held in collaboration with the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC), the Power & Energy Society Nigeria Chapter (IEEE) and the Kwara State Ministry of Energy., drew participants from the generation, transmission and distribution arms of the Nigerian electricity industry, telecommunications industry as well as the academia. In his presentation, Engr. Oyelayo Philips of the Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited, Kainji Hydro Power Station, Kainji, who spoke on “Addressing the Inadequate Power Generation”, identified the challenges of power generation in Nigeria to include inadequate and delayed maintenance of facilities, insufficient funding of power stations, obsolete equipment, tools, safety facilities and operational vehicles, inadequate and obsolete communication equipment as well as the lack of exploration to tap all sources of energy from other available resources. He also blamed what he called the “lack of the right political will” for the current power challenges, saying, “If you look at the composition of NERC, they are more of economists, lawyers and few engineers …they don’t have that bite to caution the power producers.” Engr. Philips pointed out that the authority of NERC should be strengthened to regulate the operation of the power industry, adding that there should be a holistic and speedy review of the Power Sector Act 2005. He further called for more investment in the sector, saying that this would have positive multiplier effects on the lives of the people as the way forward. The Director-General of Bureau for Public Enterprises (BPE), Alex Okoh, in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, described the recent partnership between the Federal Government and Siemens to improve electricity in Nigeria as credible, adding that what had been done so far was the technical evaluation from both the transmission and distribution to know what the gaps were, to essentially understand what the gaps were in terms of the technical infrastructure to improve the transmission and distribution capacity. He also explained that the next phase was to do the detailed commercials and see costing of what the Siemens intervention would entail before they would agree on the financial frameworks to domicile the financial commitment within the books of the DisCos. “If you look at the amount of losses that is being experienced in the entire power sector, they are huge. We are talking about double-digit losses, between 30 percent and, in some DisCos, almost 70 percent ATC and C losses. “So, that is a strong signal that the way the market is currently structured is not sustainable, and if we don’t improve the critical infrastructure in terms of the winning capacity of TCN and also the distribution capacity of the DisCos, then this kind of situation would persist for a long time. “That is why we welcome this intervention and we believe that within the timelines that have been directed by Mr. President, we will be able to significantly improve power supply in the country Dr Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, the Managing Director of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO), has said the power deal signed by the federal government and German-based Siemens would revolutionize the power sector in Nigeria. He commended the Federal Government for such a courageous move to resuscitate the power sector. He said there are huge potentials for development in Nigeria that will take only the power sector to unveil adding that if the deal is successful, millions of jobs will be created automatically with the manufacturing sector coming back to life. “The power sector has been neglected for too long with several attempts made by previous administrations that failed but monies were spent, yet no power to commensurate what was spent. On Monday, President Muhammadu Buhari got it right with the choice of Siemens. The German-based company is known for quality and professionalism and that’s why they were able to change the face of power in Egypt. ‘`With 7000MW by 2021 and 11000MW by 2023, we may not solve all the problems in the sector but it will bring about a positive change that will do the magic in the manufacturing sector, rural development and industrialisation. With such power capacity, a lot of agro-industries will spring up, I can tell you and everything will experience a change. ” I am very confident that the deal is good for business because the cost of doing business will be reduced to the barest minimum. Nigerians don’t ask for too much but just give them power and you will see the miracle that we can create with improved power supply,’’ he said. He implored President Buhari to ensure strict monitoring of the deal to avoid hijacking, adding that a lot of power deals have been signed in the past but were either hijacked or swallowed up by corruption. Gwamna also tasked other arms of government to assist in seeing to the success of the project should there be need for legislative approval in terms of funding in that regard. Engineer, Chris Okonkwo, President of Senior Staff Electricity and Allied Companies (SSEAC), in an exclusive interview with our correspondent, said the Federal Government is ready to harness the experiences of the past by the contract it signed with Siemens AG Germany. He, however, said: “In fairness, some practical steps have been taken and the results may soon show in the sector to the benefit of Nigerians. From the little details available, we believe it (Siemens deal) ll add value if not bugged down by partisan interests and bottle necks. It is a good move worthy of support,” he added