Twitter and Facebook have accused the Chinese government of backing a social media campaign to discredit Hong Kong’s pro-democracy movement and sow political discord in the city. The American tech giants announced Monday they had suspended nearly 1,000 active accounts linked to the campaign, while Twitter said it had shut down about 200,000 more before they could inflict any damage. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “These accounts were deliberately and specifically attempting to sow political discord in Hong Kong, including undermining the legitimacy and political positions of the protest movement on the ground,” Twitter said, referring to the active accounts it shut down.  Facebook said some of the posts from accounts it banned compared the protesters in Hong Kong with Islamic State group militants, branded them “cockroaches” and alleged they planned to kill people using slingshots. Hong Kong, a semi-autonomous southern Chinese city and one of the world’s most important financial hubs, is in the grip of an unprecedented political crisis that has seen millions of people take to the streets demanding greater freedoms. China’s communist rulers have warned they may be prepared to deploy force to quell the nearly three months of unrest, and likened violent protesters to “terrorists.” However they have publicly largely left the city’s leaders and police force to try and resolve the crisis. Behind the scenes online though, the Chinese government is seeking to sway public opinion about Hong Kong, according to Twitter and Facebook. Meanwhile, Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said Tuesday she’s immediately setting up a “communication platform” to narrow differences in the city after months of anti-government protests. Lam also said the city’s police watchdog would carry out a fact-finding study of the protests and related incidents as it looks into 174 complaints about police behavior. The movement held a massive but peaceful rally on Sunday after earlier protests had been marked by violence. The government has conditioned dialogue on the leaderless protest movement remaining peaceful. Lam didn’t say the communication platform will be used to specifically contact protesters. It will be used for “open and direct” dialogue with people from all walks of life, she told reporters, while giving few specifics on how it would work. “Our goal is to work hard to resolve differences and conflicts, to understand each other through communication and to walk out of this social deadlock together,” Lam said. Lam’s comments fell short of the protesters’ five demands, which include her resignation and an independent inquiry into what they say was police brutality. The protesters complain that police have contributed to the violence by responding to their aggressive tactics with tear gas and rubber bullets. Lam dismissed the protesters’ demand for an independent inquiry, saying the city’s police watchdog was capable of looking into police misconduct. The watchdog has been criticized for having limited monitoring powers. In another development,the movement in the island-state has reached a moment of reckoning after protesters occupying Hong Kong’s airport last week held two mainland Chinese men captive, beating them because they believed the men were infiltrating their movement. In the aftermath, pro-democracy lawmakers and fellow demonstrators — who have stood by the hard-liners even as they took more extreme steps — questioned whether the operation had gone too far. It was the first crack in what has been astonishing unity across a wide range of protesters that has kept the movement going. It gave pause to the front-liners, who eased off the violence this past weekend, though they still believe their more disruptive tactics are necessary to get the government to answer the broader movement’s demands. The demands grew from opposing legislation that would have allowed Hong Kong residents to be extradited for trials in mainland China’s murky judicial system to pressing for democratic elections, Lam’s resignation and an investigation into allegations of police brutality at the demonstrations. The protesters on the front lines are the ones who throw bricks at police and put traffic cones over active tear gas canisters to contain the fumes. They have broken into and trashed the legislature’s chambers, blocked a major tunnel under Hong Kong’s harbor, besieged and pelted police headquarters with eggs and halted rush-hour subways by blocking the train doors from closing. To Lam, these are “violent rioters” bent on destroying the city’s economy. To China’s ruling Communist Party, their actions are “the first signs of terrorism.” To these most die-hard protesters, there’s no turning back. “The situation has evolved into a war in Hong Kong society,” said Tin, a 23-year-old frontline demonstrator. “It’s the protesters versus the police.”