The Caretaker Chairman of Ushongo Local Government Area of Benue State, Hon. Bensen Agugu, in this exclusive interview with JOSEPH UNDU, said Gov. Ortom is not interfering with LG administration, adding that the governor has done well in the area of security. Excerpts: Can you share your vision and achievements so far? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Well, all the 23 local government caretaker chairmen in Benue state share a common vision with His Excellency, Governor Samuel Ortom. Our main priority is first and foremost, to protect lives and property. We are not elected executive, so, we operate mostly on the mandates and instructions given to us by the governor. Of course we are doing our best to develop our local government in line with the governor’s blueprint. I always said that, once development starts at the local government, it would help to reduce pressure on the state and the federal government. Our responsibility includes grading of roads, provision of potable water, schools, light and others. We are working hard to contribute our quota to the development of our local government. Within two months of my appointment in office, I have graded about three roads. The first one is Pepper and Tomatoes market at Lessel Township, we are building an office for the executive, we have started grading at Mbaaka council ward, another one at the Chairman’s lodge and we are also building a bridge at Mbayegh council ward, Benue First Lady’s maternal home. We are already processing 250 benches for eleven council wards particularly for those schools that primary school pupils are still sitting on the bare floor. We have done many things, but these are the major ones so far. Based on your experience so far, what are the major challenges impeding effective local government administration? In every situation, there are challenges. Be it church, family, mosque, just everywhere. Even as president, governor, husband, just name it; there are challenges. But once you are a leader, you must learn to manage every situation. It could be land disputes, economic crisis, labour crisis, civil unrest, just name it, but you must learn to manage everything. For instance, some time you may want to do a project, but because your director general and secretary are not from your council ward, they may not want to assist you. And because they are not from there, they really don’t care about those projects. Even as the chairman of the local government, you don’t need to do things forcefully, you have to let those people know that they need to help you out to achieve this goal, not for yourself but for the government. It is our duty to assist the governor in developing the local government. That is the main reason he appointed us. He found us worthy of these positions and we are committed to bring peace and development to our local government. Looking at the fragile state of security in Nigeria today, how would you describe the security situation in Ushongo local government? There is no doubt that Ushongo is the most peaceful local government across Benue State. But notwithstanding, sometimes where you may be experiencing peace, if you are not careful, it may end up being the place where you may face major crisis even more than those who are facing it right now. We are talking about Gboko today, of course I am very proud of my colleague there; he’s doing so much. You see, crime migrates and it travels just like migrants in search of greener pastures. For instance, if there is crisis in Vandeikya which is sharing boundary with Ushongo and Ushongo sits down and says we don’t really care, after all, they don’t do it here; they just pass and go to Vandeikya. And then you ignore it, by the time it’s done with Vandeikya, the next target is the closest place, which is Ushongo. If thieves keep coming to my house and my neighbours do nothing about it, very soon, they will go to the next house. I got a situation report, which was so strange to me, because it doesn’t happen, but why it happened is because the menace is spreading more and more. In our last security meeting with the governor, he advised us not to sleep and we both agreed to work cordially across the 23 local governments to curtail this security challenge anywhere it rears its ugly head. I wouldn’t want to divulge our security strategy, but just to assure our people that, all hands are on deck to stamp out this menace. It’s not bad in Ushongo but it seems the criminals want to move here. We will not allow it, this isolated case will not be allowed to escalate. There are some council wards like Mbagwaza that have no police presence, no electricity and other social amenities, what are you doing about this? You see, the police force is a federal government agency. It is just like there are some roads that pass through Ushongo but I do not have power to work on those roads. Because what is for the federal government is for federal government, what is for the state government is for state government and what is for local government is for local government. Every tier of government has its jurisdiction. It is our responsibility at the local government level to create a place for the police. We can provide an office space for them and it’s left for the police authority to bring in their personnel at their own discretion. And that is why I thank God for vigilante group. The police alone may not be able to cover up all these areas, but with help of vigilante, they will be able to protect lives and property of the citizenry. They are still there in Mbagwaza, probably, there may not be a police station there, but we still have security personnel in Mbagwaza. How would you assess the government of Samuel Ortom and what’s take on the issue of local government autonomy? I respect governor Ortom very much particularly for one thing, his transparency. We had situations in the past where people take very crucial decisions without consulting anyone. They were operating like a one-man gang, but Gov. Ortom is different. He carries everybody along in every major decision he takes. He consults relevant stakeholders including party leadership at all levels in the state. He has been open and whatever challenge he has is always put at the table for sound reasoning. Above all, Gov. Ortom has the fear of God in him. Another area he has done very well is in the area of security. It is just unfortunate that, most of the security challenges we have are within. Someone can not just come and rub you in your house without knowing you. It is usually out of information provided by internal collaborators. Our governor has made it so clear that there’s no more godfatherism in the state. That whatever any position one occuppies in the society, if he or she engages in any crime or habours hoodlums, the person would not be spared. And thirdly, since we came into office, he has really been supportive. He asked us to operate freely without the interference of any political godfather or he himself. I can tell you that within two months in office, I have been able to achieve five major projects. That means he is doing well on the issue of local government autonomy. There is no interference from officials of the state government. On three occasions, the governor asked us if we have had any issue with that, and we said no. There has been no issue so far. If there is any, we will tell him. The only concern is that, it is very slow, it involves a lot of processes, documentations and all that. For someone like me, I like things being done fast and quickly. But we have to follow due process for the sake of transparency and accountability even though it slows down development. On the whole, I am deeply impressed with Governor Ortom’s transparent nature. How do you indent to utilise the huge agricultural potentials of the local government? As local government chairmen, there is limit to our expenditure, and sometimes because of that limitation, it is difficult to achieve very big project. Last week, I had a meeting with some people to explore the possibility of having at least a orange juice factory. And we have been thinking of South Africa or China at the same time. We are looking at our total budget and if it’s something we can achieve within the time I am the chairman and it’s within our budget, we will do it. Because of lack of factories, farmers are not getting enough value for their labour. Traders who are coming to by these raw materials at very cheap rate are the ones making so much money from this. Again, the issue of security still comes up here. You have to understand that development comes along with security. You may want to partner with the private investors, but if the security situation is deplorable, no one will risk his investment. If at every time, the Fulani herdsmen are coming down here to attack our farmers, investors would not want to come here. So we must first tackle security challenges to create an enabling environment for investment. Thank God, His Excellency is doing his best in this regard. And surely, the issue of insecurity will soon be a thing of the past. Agugu