Members of the Odua Peoples Congress (OPC) attached to Oju-Oro zone 1 Giwa under bridge Aboru of Agbado Oko-Odo Area of Lagos State have arrested no fewer than 10 suspected criminals within the area in six months and handed over to the police. Also, men of the OPC has been giving adequate support to security agencies in protecting the pipelines belonging to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) located at Aborun area of the state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The co-ordinator of the Odua Peoples Congress Oju-Oro zone 1, Abayomi Olamilekan (AKA) Olanukani ‘L’ Oshodi while speaking to our correspondent in an exclusive interview in his office said, the success made by the organization in crime fighting could be attributed to the co-operation of the residents and officers of the Nigerian police force. It is on record that the operatives of the Odua Peoples Congress (OPC) in the area under the leadership of Ambassador Oludare Adesope Oodwa had been doing the task voluntarily without being paid either by government, organization or residents of the area. Also speaking, an elder and resident of the area Mr. Tajudeen Raji, said the Opc men have done a good job in ensuring adequate security in the area. I want the federal, state and corporate organization to support them financially to boost their morale. According to him the OPC men are the backbone of security in Aboru and its environs. Another resident Mr. Olisa Megafu who also spoke to our correspondent said the effort of the Opc men in the area had brought calm to the environment as the activities of criminals has been nip to the bud “keep calm no trouble” he said “once we call them, they respond positively” “Crime rate has drop in this area since they came onboard. Supporting his position another resident Mr Oyeleye Adebayo said government should support the OPC men with equipments for self defence and also help in fencing the area. He described the presence of the operatives as very cordial in the area. The secretary of the OPC, Oju- Oro zone 1, Adekola Saheed said the organization will continue to ensure adequate security in the area and call for support from government and well meaning Nigerians as well as corporate organization. He commend the Nigerian police force for their co-operation and understanding in tackling insecurity in Lagos State.