Steven Gerrard has issued a desperate plea to Rangers fans after UEFA hammered the club over sectarian singing. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The governing body have ordered a section of Ibrox be closed for next Thursday’s Europa League play off second leg against Legia Warsaw, as they found a section of supporters guilty of “racist behaviour” – including bigoted chanting – during an earlier clash against St Joseph’s back in July. Record Sport broke the news today that the club expected tough sanctions and at least 3000 seats will be closed off. Rangers reacted by sending a strongly worded message to guilty fans, with chairman Dave King insisting they are not welcome at Ibrox. And now Gerrard, who had called for a raucous atmosphere for the crucial return against the Poles, has made his own personal appeal. “We’ve been here before and I hope it’s the last time we have to deal with questions on fan behaviour,” the Rangers boss said. “We want our fans to go to the games, enjoy it and get behind the team. “That’s what being a fan is all about. “We’ve got one of the best fan bases in the world. They follow us in large numbers home and away and they have got a reputation for being the best supporters in the world. “So when you hear stuff like this it damages the fans’ reputation of having the best fans in the world. “All I can do is echo what’s been said in the statement and plead with fans to behave in the right manner when they come to support the team.” The punishment comes just weeks after Rangers launched their “Everyone, Anyone” campaign, aimed at promoting diversity and inclusivity at Ibrox. But they have now been left to deal with sanctions that will ensure thousands of supporters miss out on one of the biggest European nights in the club’s recent history. The club are one positive result away from the group stage, but will have to negotiate the tie without a chunk of their fans in attendance. Rangers have also been ordered to display a banner reading #EqualGame and carrying the UEFA logo. A club statement earlier on Friday said: “It read: “Rangers has been ordered by UEFA to close a section of Ibrox Stadium for the return leg of the club’s Europa League play-off tie against Legia Warsaw on Thursday, August 29. The chants were heard during the qualifier against St Joseph’s (Image: Getty Images)
“UEFA has ruled that a group of Rangers supporters were guilty of racist behaviour – which includes sectarian singing – during the match against St Joseph’s at Ibrox on July 18. “Our supporters have been asked repeatedly by the club to refrain from indulging in this, and other forms of unacceptable behaviour. Sadly, the warnings have fallen on deaf ears and the actions of this minority will cause the club and the majority of good and decent Rangers supporters to pay a heavy penalty. “UEFA has ruled that a section, or sections containing no fewer than 3000 seats must be shut off during the club’s next European match, which is the home match against Legia Warsaw. The area, or areas to be closed will be announced in due course and the club will do its best to restrict the impact to offending supporters. READ MORE
Transfer news LIVE as Celtic and Rangers plus Aberdeen, Hearts and Hibs make signings “Unfortunately a significant number of supporters, innocent of any wrong doing, will be unable to attend next week’s match. This is deeply regrettable to all at the club and we hope that the guilty parties, who attracted the attention of UEFA might reflect on the damage their unacceptable behaviour is causing Rangers and their fellow supporters. “If any individual supporter is unable to behave in a civilised manner then please stay away from Ibrox and our club. You are harming Rangers and that is something a genuine supporter would never wish to do.”