Bauchi – The Miyyati Allah Fulani Socio Cultural Association, Bauchi State chapter, has appealed to the state government to establish additional earth dams and expanded grazing reserve areas in the state. The state chairman of the association, Alhaji Muhammadu Hussaini, made the appeal at the weekend when he interacted with reporters in Bauchi. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said that additional earth dams and expansion of grazing reserve areas would curtail the clashes between farmers and cattle herdsmen and reduce movement of Fulanis from one place to another in search of water and grazing reserve. The chairman maintained that all the cattle routes were taken over by modern roads and houses built by government and individuals with no new ones replaced, pointing out that the situation has put the herdsmen in a difficult position. “The state government should also provide the cattle herdsmen with subsidised cotton seeds for their cows. It is very important presently as a sack of the cotton seed is being sold between N3, 500 to N4, 000. “So if the government subsidises it, the Fulanis will buy it between N1, 500 to N2, 000 and this will make them stay in one place and educate their children. “There is also the challenge of shortage of nomadic teachers in Fulani nomadic schools which is one their major problems. I advise the government to employ more teachers and monitor them regularly to ensure that they are perform their duties as teachers schools to prevent a situation where teachers attend the schools once in a week as it has a now the case in many nomadic schools,” he said. He commended the Bauchi State Government for pledging to implement the newly introduce Ruga programme by the Federal Government and assured it of their support towards the success of the programme. The chairman advised government to emulate Jigawa State Government that demarcated 50 meters of cattle route from the main road and assisted Fulanis to reduce their challenges as promised by the Governor during his electioneering campaign.