JANET AUDU Powered by RubiQube Ad Network JALINGO – At the maiden convocation of the Taraba State University Jalingo in March 2018, General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma (rtd) stirred the hornet’s nest when he alleged that the army were colluding with criminals against the law abiding citizen of Nigeria. His words ” everyone one of us most rise up, the armed forces are not neutral. They collude with armed bandits to kill Nigerians. If you are depending on the armed forces to stop the killings, you will all die one by one, this ethnic cleansing must stop in Taraba State and all the states in the country otherwise Somalia will be a child’s play. I asked every one of you to be alert and defend your country, defend your territory and your state because you have no place to go’’ The allegation of the General caused great disaffection between him and the military high command which culminated in the setting up of a high-powered committee headed by the retired Major General John Nimyel to investigate the allegation raised by the elder statesman. Meanwhile, the entire Nigerian public made their contributions and aired divergent views on the matter while majority of the contributors applauded Danjuma for speaking their minds, others especially die hard politicians attributed the statement as whipping up political sentiment against the ruling APC. An APC stalwart in Taraba who spoke with our correspondent expressed disappointment at the statement. ‘’ I am highly disappointed at what General T.Y Danjuma said at the convocation calling on Nigerians to defend themselves meaning, we have no competent security apparatus in the country. How can a man of his standing who rose to that exalted rank and position make such an instigating statement? Another APC stalwart, Alh. Haruna Saminu Maihanchi described the statement as sweeping, saying T.Y Danjuma was expressing his frustration. He added that Nigerian soldiers were among the best in the world, having served as peace keepers in many war-torn nationS. But speaking on the matter, a public analyst Barr. Danjuma Anyize said the Nigerian army was one of the best in the world but Nigerian army today is fully politicised , he maintained that services was superb when they stood their ground to ensure that the country remain united and safe during the civil war, they laid down their lives, the did well in places like Liberia, Congo republic and Sierra-Leone but the story has changed saying that what Nigerian army of yesteryears did not do, Nigerian army of today are fully exhibiting them publicly. For example he said” it was a taboo for a military man to collect money at the check point but what do we see today? they are playing the role of police, posting them to our checkpoints has exposed them to material things which has dented their image and something urgent has to be done to redeem their image, they engaged in all kind of evil that Nigerians don’t have confidence in them anymore, discipline in the Army has gone down, they don’t live up to their expectations, with the role they played in the recent killing of 3 police officers and a civilian along Ibi Wukari road, arrest and the re-arrest of the kidnapping kingpin Hamisu Bala Wadume and so many cases similar to this, has already vindicated general TY Danjuma who disclosed that the Arm forces collude with criminals to aid their activities. Alh. Saminu Gambo Madugu said the recent events in public domain has not only lent credence to TY Danjuma’s statement but have vindicated him. Lest you do not know, ‘’ recently, an alleged kidnapper by name Hamisu Bala alias Wadume told the world that some personnel of the Nigerian Army and the police were in his pay roll, Wadume confessed that he was working closely with these security personnel in his nefarious business of kidnapping and 419 and this has been supported by the activities of the security agent soldier and police which lead to the arrest, release and re-arrest of Wadume. The alleged kidnapper who was arrested by the team of indicatives from the office of Inspector general of police was put under hand cuffs and chained at the orders of Captain Balarabe Tijani after 3 police men and a civilian had been shot death and the hand cuffs and the chain legs of the alleged criminal had been cut on the order of the army commander. “From the aforementioned is there not a clear case of the security agencies colluding with criminals to kill Nigerians? And has the general not been vindicated with his theory of Army colluding with criminal to kill Nigerians? It could be recalled that on 10th April 2018, the military announced the constitution an investigation panel headed by the Retired Major General John Nimyel to look into the allegation level against the military and as if the committee was acting a script, gave the military a clean bill of health, it declared that the military was indeed neutral in all cases of security in the country and was indeed laying down its life to defend the territorial integrity of the country. The committee had commended the military for working hard to dislodge the Boko-Haram insurgent. However, it is clear not from the period of the submission of the committee that there have been incessant reports of security agents killing and maiming of innocent Nigerians as well as cases of kidnapping, banditry and robbery throughout the country unabated. The colluding theory of General TY Danjuma give credence to the adage that what the elder sees while sitting, the young cannot see while on the tree top.