ADO-EKITI – The Nigeria Export Promotion Council(NEPC),says Ekiti state is well positioned to dominate global yam and banana market . The council’s trade officer, Mr Rotimi Babadipe, hinted this during a business summit tagged: ‘Harnessing Agribusiness and Export opportunities in Ekiti for Wealth Creation” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The program was organised by E-11and held at Ikogosi Resort Centre in Ekiti West local government area of the state. “Ekiti has one the best brands of yam and banana in the world,but we are trying to encourage export of the products by teaching traders on best preservation and packaging techniques that can attract value at the world market. We are not limiting this to yam and banana alone, we are teaching farmers about best fermentation techniques that can produce quality seeds to stop the degrading of cocoa product at the world market . He advised Ekiti government to encourage mass production and proper packaging of some of its non- oil products for export to enhance foreign revenue earnings that can boost the economy of the state. He said statistics revealed that Ilawe Ekiti axis of the state trades over three million bunches of banana yearly ditto Yam production in Ilasa Ekiti axis , which it said have the capacities to dominate the world market with proper packaging and earn the state huge foreign revenue . He said the council has started encouraging proper packaging of banana and yam products in Ekiti to export status while also encouraging the state to tap into benefits inherent in cashew, cocoa, and palm oil production that can attract huge foreign investments. An official of the Bank of Industry(BOI), Mr. Raymond Tochukwu, said the financial institution is ready to give loans to interested people to help the growth of small and medium scale enterprises in the state. The chairman of E-11, Mr. Kola Akosike, explained that the summit was intended to create awareness and reawaken business interests in export opportunities in Ekiti. “We brought a Canada based Ekiti man, Mr Femi Boyede to give lecture on how to change and reorientate our youths to engage in farming, because of the huge benefits and for them to know that farming is the answer to this unemployment and the declining economic fortunes of our country”.