The African Union (AU) and the International Committee of the All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) unveiled the nominees’ list (regional category) for its sixth edition at a World Media Conference on Wednesday, August 14, 2019, at the Abora Hall, of Eko Hotels And Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria With an array of music industry professionals, artiste and music journalist in attendance to witness the unveiling of 2019 nominees’ list for regional and continental category emerged from the 8,157 songs/videos received as entries from its online portal which closed earlier on August 2, 2019. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The unveiling event was broadcast on African Independent Television (AIT), RayPower Fm and Kennis Music FM, as the remaining 25 continental categories would be released on Friday, August 23, after auditing by the international auditors of AFRIMA. The regional category for Best Female Artistes and Best Male Artistes of the five regions (Western, Southern, Eastern, Northern, and Central Africa) have been thoroughly selected from the entries to reveal artiste who would be competing at the 2019 awards ceremony. This year’s list would showcase a wide range of creativity and talents, both from new and known artiste across the regions. Artiste like Shatta Wale, Kizz Daniel, Salif Keita, Burna Boy would be competing for the Best Male category in Western Africa, while Teniola, Simi, Aya Nakamura, Mzvee, Yemi Alade among others would be competing for the Best Female category in Western Africa. Dominating Central Africa include Cameroonian artiste Blanche Baily, Charlotte Dipanda, Daphne alongside their male counterpart Locko, Magasco and SalatielFor Eastern Africa; we have great contenders, including Sheebah from Uganda; Vanessa Mdee from Tanzania; Nikita Kering from Kenya with Tanzanian Diamond platinum, Rayvanny, Mboso, and Kenyan Khaligraph Jones and Nyashinski. Moroccan Yann’Sine, Ahmed Soultan, Amiinux, and Algerian Soolking with Cairokee from Egypt, Salma Rachid from Morocco would be battling it out in the Northern region for Best Male and Female category. A huge representation for South African artiste as they hold sway over the Southern African region for both Male and Female categories. These artistes include AKA, Nasty C, Cassper Nyovest, Sjava, Black Coffee, Kelly Khumalo, Zonke, Nadia Nakai among others. Amara Brown, Tamy Moyo, Jah Prayzah, and Winky D also lock down few spots for Zimbabwe in the Southern regional category. The Continental category comprising of different genres of music will be released Friday, August 23 following an auditing process from the international auditors of AFRIMA. Drawing from their pool of experience and professionalism, the 13-man jury, guided by the AFRIMA acronym FACEIT which stands for Fairness, Authenticity, Creativity, excellence, Integrity, and Transparency underwent a week-long process of thoroughly screening, categorizing, assessing, and grading from the thousands of entries in order to arrive at the best reflection of rich and creative talents embedded in African music, reviewed songs were produced between the period of August 1, 2018, to August 2, 2019.