CALABAR – A 24 year-old computer science graduate of Madonna University, Reyumeh Bassey Ejue from Cross River State says he has been receiving threatening telephone calls and was physically attacked by some unknown men over his fictional write-up on the Chibok Girls saga that was published in a magazine – by name, ‘Red Fez publication’. Ejue, who recounted his ordeal to some journalists in Calabar said he was attacked in Ogoja Local government in Cross River State by four unknown men that manhandled him. “I was beaten to a point of death. They only left on the roadside and ran away when some passer-by came for my rescue.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network His words, “On May 5, 2019, while on my way to visit a friend who resides in one of the streets in Igoli Street, Ogoja LGA of Cross River State, unknown to me that I had just walked into a bobby trap set by enemies.” Ejue disclosed that months after the publication, he began to receive telephone calls with hidden numbers ordering him to step down the literary piece from the various social media platforms which he had shared the story link. “The first caller accused me of insulting their Holy Prophet through the literary piece which was credited to me by the magazine. I tried to explain to the fellow that I did the writings with no intention to bring any one’s reputation to ridicule but strictly to inform. A fiction which portrayed the ordeal of the Chibok Girls’ while in the hands of their abductors,” he maintained. According to the young man, when he was finally attacked in Ogoja, it was unbelievable to him. “When I managed to get home on the day of the attack, my parents got me to receive medical attention as a result of the beatings I received from the unknown men. We later traveled to Calabar where my parents took me to Navy Hospital Calabar for further medical attention and I am grateful to be alive.” He said he reported the incident to the Police in Ogoja and his desire is to have his assailants fished out for punishment. Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO in Cross River State Irene Ugbo while in a telephone interview advised the young man to make a formal complaint and stated that the Police will stop at nothing to ensure that those who foment trouble are fished out and brought to justice.