Ghislaine Maxwell once taught one of Jeffrey Epstein’s accusers “the proper way” to perform oral sex just how he liked, a new lawsuit claimed. The British socialite allegedly gave the victim, Priscilla Doe, a “step-by-step” tutorial during a meeting at the convicted pedophile’s island, Little St. James, in 2006, according to Priscilla’s lawsuit filed Tuesday in Manhattan federal court. Maxwell, Epstein’s gal pal and alleged madam, used her own hands “to demonstrate how to pleasure Jeffrey Epstein manually so that plaintiff would know exactly how to make Jeffrey Epstein happy,” the complaint said. Maxwell provided other graphic advice on “stimulation” and “pressure” — and eventually made sure that Priscilla and other young women were “constantly on call to sexually service” Epstein, according to the filing. On the same trip, Priscilla — who was a 20-year-old dancer when she was “recruited” as one of Epstein’s personal masseuses in 2006 — was forced into having sex with another woman, identified as “Associate 2,” during which she was choked by Epstein, the suit said. The new court papers provide more details of the serial pervert’s disturbing behavior, including how he’d “be on the verge of ejaculating and would stop in order to make a phone call, at times saying that nearing sexual climax evoked certain important thoughts in Jeffrey Epstein’s mind.” “Jeffrey Epstein would then take or initiate up to four business calls during any particular sexual massage,” Priscilla alleged. He would also brag to her about being “close friends with other powerful influential people” including Bill Clinton, Donald Trump, Prince Andrew and the Sultan of Dubai, the lawsuit said. Priscilla claimed she was forced to give some of Epstein’s “powerful friends” massages — during which she was sexually abused — but did not identify any by name. On one occasion, she said, she was forced to serve hors d’oeuvres at Epstein’s private party with Woody Allen in order to keep her in line. “This server’s role was forced upon plaintiff in order to demean her, frighten her, and impress upon her the need for her to conceal the commercial sex trafficking enterprise he was running,” the complaint said. Priscilla was one of three alleged victims to file suit against Epstein’s estate and a slew of others on Tuesday. Neither lawyers for his estate nor lawyers for Maxwell immediately returned messages.