Warri – The Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, has re-emphasised the need for oil companies operating in the Niger Delta to relocate their headquarters to their areas of operation, adding that those who left in the wake of the crisis in the region about a decade ago should also come back with the return of peace and in the interest of the rapid development of the area. Omo-Agege made the call while fielding question from newsmen on the occasion of his visit to his country home, Orogun, Ughelli North Council Area, Delta State, recently. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It would be recalled that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had made a similar call about three years ago when he visited the Niger Delta. Omo-Agege, who had condemned an alleged contemplated move for the headquarters of the Nigerian Gas Company Ltd, to Abuja, noted that the relocation of the headquarters of multinational oil companies to the Niger Delta would speed up the development of the area just as it would create job opportunities to the youths and engender the atmosphere of peace in the region. He said: “I’m sure the message has been sent that they cannot move; they must remain. And for those who have left, they must give a serious thought to relocating back to the Niger Delta. “What I’m saying now is not really news. Even the Vice President, not too long ago, I believe, enjoined all those companies that left the Niger Delta, to relocate back.  So, what I’m saying now is just following suit.” In a related development, Omo-Agege said that the just-concluded screening of the 43 ministerial nominees sent to the Senate by President Muhammadu Buhari was basically to ensure that they met the minimum requirements to become cabinet members. Omo-Agege stated this while fielding questions from newsmen in Orogun, Delta State, recently. The federal lawmaker, who stated that the 43 nominees sent by the president had already passed through the crucible of security screening before their names were sent to the Senate, noted that, in line with the provisions of the 4th alteration of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the screening was to ensure that the nominees satisfy the minimum requirements in age, educational qualification and free of security issues within the last ten years.