Bayern Munich target Timo Werner has officially extended his contract with RB Leipzig until 2023. The announcement was made by Leipzig just an hour prior to kickoff against their opening home match of the season against Eintracht Frankfurt. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Prior to the extension, Werner’s contract with Leipzig was set to expire in the summer of 2020, meaning that he could have left on a free transfer at that time had he not signed an extension with Leipzig. Negotiations for his contract renewal went on for what seemed like forever, as Julian Nagelsmann and Leipzig’s front office were very keen on getting him to sign an extension to commit his future to the club. Per kicker, Werner been guaranteed a significant salary increase and Bayern would now have to pay a considerable exit clause fee to bring him to Munich prior to 2023. Details on the exact exit clause fee were not revealed, but kicker estimate that it’s somewhere around the 30 million euros mark. Speaking on the extension, Werner said it was important for him to stay in Leipzig to take the next steps in his career: I am glad that I signed with RB Leipzig and therefore extended my contract, which of course has been going on for a very long time, but I really wanted to be completely sure that I could take the next steps at this club. And for the right decisions, you just need a little longer, and now I can concentrate on playing with our team as successfully as possible. Leipzig’s managing director Oliver Mintzlaff and sporting director Markus Krösche were two of the key players in getting Werner and his agent, Karlheinz Förster, to agree to a contract extension. The negotiations between all parties may have taken most of the summer, but nonetheless, Leipzig have ensured that they’ll now keep hold of one of their best players for a little bit longer. Mintzlaff described his delight at the negotiations finally being complete: We are glad that the negotiations with Timo Werner have now led to a positive end and he has decided to extend the contract with us. We have had a lot of intense discussions over a long period of time and have been very attentive to and valued by Timo, and we are glad that we now have clarity and are pleased that Timo remains an important part of our team. For Bayern, they’ll now have to reassess whether or not they still want to pursue Werner and if they’ll be willing to pay the release clause prior to 2023. They had the upper hand before the contract extension because Werner would have been able to leave on a free transfer next summer, but Leipzig did not want that to happen, especially for a player of such high value. Whether or not Bayern acquires Leroy Sane from Manchester City in the winter transfer window might play a part in their decision making and planning for Werner as well. Despite Bayern’s interest being clear, kicker reports that the only concrete offer for Werner over the summer came from Atletico Madrid, who were willing to pay upwards of 40 million euros, but Werner did not want to leave Germany.