LAGOS – The African Games (AG), formally known as the All-Africa Games (AAG), is the African version of the Olympic Games. These continental multi-sport championships are held every four years, and are organised by the African Union (AU) in conjunction with the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA) and the Association of African Sports Confederations (AASC). The first edition of the Games was held in 1965 in Brazzaville, Congo. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) granted official recognition as a continental multi-sport event, along with the Asian Games and Pan American Games. Since 1999, the Games have also included athletes with disability. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Supreme Council for Sport in Africa (SCSA) was the initial organizers for the Games. But on July 26, 2013, the Extraordinary Assembly of the SCSA held in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire on the sidelines of the 5th Session of the African Union (AU) Conference of Sports Ministers that started on July 22, 2013 recommended the dissolution of the SCSA and the transfer all functions, assets and liabilities of SCSA to the African Union Commission. Thus, the organization of the African Games is now managed by three parts, the African Union (the owners of the Games), the ANOCA (occupying the technical aspects) and the AASC (developing marketing policy, sponsorship and research resources). After running previous 11 editions as the AAG, the Games have been renamed the African Games. The decision for the name change was arrived at, during the Executive Council meeting of the African Union held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in January 2012. All the 53 members affiliated to the ANOCA are eligible to take part. In history, the 53 National Olympic Committees (NOCs) have sent competitors to the Games. Morocco was banned from the Games from the 1987 to the 2015 because of a political dispute over Western Sahara. Morocco claims the territory as its “Southern Provinces” and controls 80% of it while the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, which claims to be a sovereign state, controls the remaining 20% as the “Free Zone”. In 2018, after the Moroccan government signed its treaty of return to the AU, the country also pledged to return to the AG, thus, Rabat, Morocco will host the 12th edition of the AG from Monday, August 19 to Saturday, August 31 and this will be the first time that the AG will be hosted by Morocco. Team Nigeria, which has participated in all the 11 editions of the Games, will compete in in 22 events. At the 11th edition in 2015 in Congo Brazzaville, Nigeria featured in 21 events, winning 47 gold, 55 silver and 68 bronze medals to place second behind Egypt. Team Nigeria, which is second in All-time games medal with 424 gold, 406 silver and 408 bronze, will compete in athletics, football, table tennis, tennis, wrestling, weightlifting, badminton, judo, beach volleyball, boxing, canoe-kayak, chess, cycling, gymnastics, golf, handball, karate, rowing, shooting, swimming, basketball, handball and taekwondo. However, the question is how prepared is the country for the Games? There are fears Team Nigeria might not measure up to standard following the haphazard preparations. Former National Sports Commission (NSC) Director-General, Tunde Elegbeleye, despite the haphazard preparations, has charged the team to dominate the Games, and not just participate for fun. “When you talk of the AG, we shouldn’t be talking of attending the Games but we should be talking of going to win and giving a good account of ourselves and let people know that Team Nigeria is the king of Africa in Sports,” Elegbeleye said. “Thinking of the large contingent of athletes, I don’t see anything bad in having a large contingent but they must be youngsters and not old athletes so that even when we don’t win, we would have given exposure to these athletes.” However, the Ministry of Sports and Youth Development has affirmed that the 308 athletes, comprising of 153 male and 155 female athletes were ready to win laurels at the Games. Apart from the 308 athletes, there are also 58 coaches, 58 Team Officials and 138 dignitaries to bring the grand total of the country’s delegation to 562. The Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr. Olusade Adesola, said that the athletes were enjoying the necessary support from government for podium performances. He explained that since July 5, the athletes have been into close camping phase in Abuja, Gombe, Kaduna, Port-Harcourt, Yenagoa and Lagos and would end on August 15 when the delegation will depart for Rabat. “The Federations have conducted series of close and open trials to assess the athletes’ level of preparation. Team Nigeria will present a contingent of 462 athletes, coaches, medical and administrative support staff to the Games. “The daily reports from the camps show a steady improvement in the performances of the athletes across the 22 sports,” he disclosed. Adesola, while charging the athletes to see their selection as privilege, said that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved funds for payment of their allowances. In addition, he said funds have been set aside for return tickets for foreign athletes as well as winning bonuses. “There has been concern raised in some quarters, particularly the foreign based athletes on payments of allowances. “I want to assure that President Buhari has approved funds for payment of allowances of athletes and officials while at the Games village, off-shore training grants to desirable athletes, return tickets for foreign athletes and winning bonuses,” he revealed. He also said in keeping with the subsisting regulation established in 2015 that “No Brazzaville, No Rio” meaning “No representation at the African Games, No participation in the Olympics,” only those athletes who will feature and excel in Rabat that would be considered for Tokyo 2020 Olympics. “We are also in touch with those in the Diaspora, some of who are involved in different championships. Hon. Daniel Igali, president of the Nigeria Wrestling Federation (NWF), has rated the country’s grapplers very high ahead of this year’s Africa Games in Morocco, with a verdict that both male and female representatives will do the nation proud in Morocco. Although the former Olympic Games gold medalist in the colours of Canada agreed that the Nigerian female wrestlers, led by Odunayo Adekuoroye and Blessing Oburududu stand better chances of picking medals at Maroc 2019, he insisted the men should not be ruled out. “Odunayo is doing well. She is currently top-three in the world, while Blessing is in the top-eight and they stand very good chance of winning not just medals at the Games, but gold medals. “I also believe that the six men that will be representing Team Nigeria will also do well in Morocco. They will all make us proud over there”, he said. The lawmaker from Bayelsa State added that all the wrestlers will hold their own very well and come in flying colours for the country. National tennis coach, Rotimi Akinloye in a chat with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT said his players are battle ready for the games and also promised that they would return home with good medals from the games. “The players are sweating it out in camp at the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos and from their preparations and determination, they will not disappoint at the games. “I want to promise that we will come back with good medals judging from what am seeing in the players determination and preparations”, said Akinloye.