The President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick, said he was optimistic of Nigeria’s bid sailing through having met the required standards. “We know what is required of us as a country to host the tournament, and we have fulfilled all of them. Lagos is good to go in terms of the requirement. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “All the facilities are FIFA standards not minding that the conditions for hosting have been relaxed for now, so we have met all the requirements expected of us. “The only grey areas we have will be sorted out before the tournament starts proper, because it is like a facility that has not been put to optimum use before. “Other things will measure up such as paintings and putting necessary touches to the facilities, we are not new to hosting world tournaments,’’ he said. NAN reports that the FIFA inspection team had earlier visited the newly reconstructed Onikan Stadium, a match venue, Campos Square Mini Stadium, Eagle Club and St. Nicholas Hospital. The contingent also visited the Teslim Balogun Stadium, another proposed match venue, National Stadium Legacy Pitch for training and the University of Lagos Sports Centre, also for training. On the FIFA inspection team are Christopher Exley, Sara Jane Booth, Kliment Taseski, Rhiannon Ceirwen Martin and Heyral Kaj Jurgen. Among the team for the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) are the President, Amaju Pinnick, 1st Vice-President, Seyi Akinwunmi, and NFF Executive Committee member and Chairman of the Nigeria Women Football League, Aisha Falode. The team was hosted by the top officials of the Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) led by the Executive Chairman, Kweku Tandoh and the Director-General Oluwatoyin Gafar. The Lagos State Government’s investments in sports infrastructure may have paid off as the Coordinator of the Bid for Nigeria’s hosting of the 2020 FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup, Mainasara Illo, has said that the state might likely get two slots for the competition. Illo made the revelation at the Teslim Balogun Stadium on the sidelines of the four-day inspection of facilities and equipment by a FIFA inspection team. Illo said that since Lagos had the capacity to host two venues for the championships, such would be considered, adding that he was impressed with the facilities so far inspected. “FIFA has about seven to eight conditionality which must be met before granting the request which includes availability of venues, capacity to fill the stadium and management of the stadium. “Others are the readiness of the state to host the competition, how the centres appreciate women football and other facilities such as hospitals and training pitches. “Lagos is likely to have two centres, one on the island and another on the mainland, all the facilities inspected are up to the required standard,’’ he said. Illo said that other centres in consideration are also up to the required standards, adding that the bid to include Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna had been stepped down.