Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Child of God, do you know that you were created for the glory of God? Do you know that you are a channel of glory? Do you even know that through this message your glory will manifest? Indeed, one of the reasons why God created human beings is for his glorification. Human beings are channel of God’s glory. Glory itself is the manifestation of God’s goodness and presence. The goodness in you and in the world as a whole is a reflection of God’s glory. Your happiness and even your righteousness is a manifestation of God’s glory. In today’s first reading from the book of Prophet Isaiah 66:18-21, the Lord God declares, “I am coming to gather all nations and tongues; and they shall come to see my glory, and I will set a sign among them… and they shall declare my glory among the nations.” Child of God, from today you will see the glory of God. As you behold God’s glory you will proclaim His glory among the nations. Through you, people will experience the glory of God. Your Light Must Bring Glory to God: Light is the first and most precious thing God created. In the book of Genesis 1:3 the Lord God declares “Let there be light; and there was light.” Nothing is as glorious as light. Without light we cannot see the beautiful things in the world. In fact, without light there will be no development. The New Testament presents our Lord Jesus Christ as the Light of the world. Jesus himself introduced his followers as the light of the world. Child of God, you are a light to your generation! In the gospel of Matthew 5:14-16 Jesus declares, “You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. 15 Nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lamp stand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. 16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven.” Child of God, you are not a product of darkness. You are a channel of light. You are born to shine. From today, your light must shine! As you continue to shine, through you God’s name will be glorified. And people around you will be connected to divine light through you. Your Situation will bring Glory to God: No condition is permanent. No matter the situation children of God find themselves, their life is meant to bring glory to God. A typical example is the story of the Man that was born blind in the gospel of John 9:1-3 “As Jesus passed by, He saw a man who was blind from birth. 2 And His disciples asked Him, saying, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?” 3 Jesus answered, “Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God should be revealed in him.” If the life of a blind man could bring glory to God, there is no situation that will not bring glory to God. Child of God, no matter what you are passing through, no matter where you find yourself right now, be rest assured that your situation will bring glory to God. Those who were looking down on you will soon look up to you. Your Fruitfulness will bring Glory to God: After creation, “God blessed them and said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply; fill the earth and subdue it; have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth.”(Genesis 1:28) In the New Testament our Lord Jesus Christ also declares, “By this My Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit; so you will be My disciples.” (John 15:8). Child of God, you must be fruitful. There is no reason whatsoever why you must not be fruitful. Your fruitfulness will surely bring glory to God. Your confession will bring Glory to God: In his letter to the Philippians 2:10-11 St. Paul declares, “at the name of Jesus every knee should bow… and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.” (Philippians 2:10-11) The Kingship and the Lordship of our Lord Jesus Christ is the highest confession anyone can make. Child of God, as you confess that Jesus is Lord, through you, God’s name will be glorified. Your Righteousness will bring Glory to God: A righteous man is a glorious man. In his Second letter to the Corinthians 3:9-10 St. Paul declares, “For if the ministry of condemnation had glory, the ministry of righteousness exceeds much more in glory.” For St. Paul, nothing is as glorious as the ministry of righteousness. Child of God, as you live a righteous life God’s name will be glorified through you. Your Unity will Bring Glory to God: Unity is the most glorious value in every family. A united family is a glorious family. No wonder the Psalmist declares, “Behold, how good and how pleasant it is For brethren to dwell together in unity!” (Psalm 133:1). Our Lord Jesus Christ prayed for His followers, saying, “The glory which You have given Me I have given to them, that they may be one, just as We are one” (John 17:22). Child of God, the yoke of division in your family is broken! As you are united, God’s name will be glorified. Your Transformation will Bring Glory to God: St. Paul declares, “But we all, with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord.” 2 Corinthians 3:18. Child of God from today, your transformation will bring glory to God. Your Calling will Bring Glory to God: Vocation is a glorious experience, especially when it comes directly from God. According to St. Paul, “It was for this He called you through our gospel, that you may gain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.” (2 Thessalonians 2:14). Child of God, as you respond to your calling God’s name will be glorified in Jesus name – Amen! Your Suffering will bring Glory to God: Suffering is not just a transforming experience it is also a glorious experience. St. Paul wrote, “For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us.” (Romans 8:18). Child of God, you will not suffer in vain. Your suffering will surely bring glory to God! Your Resurrection will Bring Glory to God: St. Paul declares, “There is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star differs from another star in glory. 42 So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. 43 It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. 1 Corinthians 15:41-43. Child of God, as long as you remain and die in Christ Jesus you shall be resurrected. You will not remain in the grave forever. Your resurrection will surely bring glory to God. Your Entire Action will Bring Glory to God: St. Paul declares in his first letter to the Corinthians 10:31 “So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do it all for the glory of God.” Child of God, you are indeed a channel of glory. As a channel of glory everything about you must surely bring glory to God. Your feeding will bring glory to God. Your job will bring glory to God. Your academics will bring glory to God. Your marital life will bring glory to God. All your actions will surely bring glory to God and it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!