LAGOS – Engr. Ganiyu Johnson, member representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 2 at the House of Representatives has inaugurated a 13 man ward coordinator to oversee activities in the13 wards of the constituency for effective representation and to bring governance closer to the people at Grassroots. During the inauguration on Thursday, the Honourable member reiterated his determination to transform the constituency and ensure that the dividend of democracy was felt at the grassroots for the enhancement of the living standards of the constituents. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Johnson was perceived by many as an innovator, being the first to bring such programme closer to the people. The constituents received the good news with joy, as some of those who spoke to our correspondent said that it was sign of good things to come. The politician, who had not ceased to say that he was elected a representative of everyone in the constituency, irrespective of party affiliations, stated that whether they were All Progressives Congress (APC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), partisan and nonpartisan members of the constituency, he was under obligation to serve. The former commissioner for works and infrastructure in Lagos State maintained that he was voted to represent everybody and bring the dividend of democracy to the constituency which according to him was in tandem with the agenda of his party. Johnson told the newly inaugurated coordinators to bring in their best and ensure that they assist him to service the constituents better, even as he warned that he would not hesitate to drop anyone who fail to perform. The APC chieftain said, “My desire is to improve the lives of every constituent and it has always been my culture to make life better for people which I have been doing even before i contemplated taken up the responsibility of representing my people at the National Assembly. I have a foundation where I cared for indigent students, elderly, women and youth, and with this position I have gotten another platform to render service to humanity. It is for this reason that I have decided to keep the ball rolling by doing this inauguration today.