P/HARCOURT – In view of the security infractions bedeviling normal activities in some parts of Ogoni kingdom, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has vowed deal squarely with those fomenting the area, which has resulted in death of scores of people in recent times. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Wike also declared that the State Security Council will deploy more security personnel to troubled Ogoni communities with a view to restoring peace. Speaking on Saturday when he led the Department of State Services (DSS) Commanders to Kono-Boue and Kereken-Boue Towns in Khana Local Government Area, the governor said that the security agencies have been mobilised to go after the criminal cultists operating in parts of Ogoniland. “We will do everything possible to make sure that those involved in these criminal cult activities don’t go free. You have to cooperate with us to get the killers. “Those who have perpetrated these crimes are known to community members. No armed robber operates in a place without local support. Therefore, support us with credible information. “I feel so sad that these cultists have killed our people and displaced some communities in the area. We have taken measures to restore peace “, he said. Wike said that the State Security Council has adopted new strategies to build the security framework in communities troubled by cultists. “Tell your people to come back. I have come here with the security service Commanders to reassure you that we are doing everything possible to restore peace. “Over the last few days we have deployed security personnel to the troubled areas. Beginning from today, we are going to deploy more security personnel to different Ogoni communities to protect our people,” he said. He also charged parents to monitor their children; just he noted that communities must take measures to discourage youths from becoming cultists. The Governor said that the state government will support displaced communities and families of victims of the cult-related attacks in Ogoniland. He assured the leaders of the area that the Rivers State Government will complete the road abandoned by the Niger Delta Development Commission.