LAGOS – The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad has disclosed that the reinvention of the processes of the judiciary, speedy justice dispensation and riddance of the institution of corruption would his major focus. Justice Tanko made this declaration at the opening ceremony of the 59th edi
tion of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Annual General Conference titled: “Facing the Future” which held in Victoria Island. Reiterating his resolve to make the Nigerian judiciary blossom under his watch, the CJN assured that despite the pessimism about the future, the judiciary looks bright. He said, “Since my appointment as the Chief Justice, my focus has been on reinventing our processes, providing speedy and quality administra
tion of justice, strengthening our structures from the Supreme Court to other courts of records and stamping out corruption from the system” The CJN, who said those three virtues formed the nucleus of his administration, dismissed the notion that judges look at faces or considers the feeling of persons in deciding cases. He said, “By the grace of Almighty God, I will tenaciously hold onto to that even until that very moment of my last breath
on earth. “Let me assure this assembly, we don’t look at anybody ’ s face or feelings before making our decisions. “If there is any deity to be feared, that deity is the Almighty God. We will never be subservient to anybody, no matter how highly placed,” he said. He, however, admitted that the judiciary was not truly independent, especially at the state level, since the executive still in controls its funding
and urged lawyers to join hands with the bench to salvage the nation’s legal system. He encouraged the lawyers to always live up to the ethics of the law profession in the interest of the people and the nation. Declaring the conference open on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, said the Buhari administration had ensured the independence of the judiciary, saying that the government accepts adverse court judgments without questioning to demonstrate FG’s non-stronghold on the judiciary. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network