LAGOS – Fidelity Bank Plc said it has disbursed N9.6 billion to Micro- Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) from the Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) fund being disbursed by participating deposit money banks. Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo, the bank’s Managing Director, disclosed this in Lagos yesterday at Fidelity Bank SMEs Funding Connect-Lagos forum with the theme: “Entrepreneurship Meets Capital”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Okonkwo said that the bank’s access limit to DBN fund was N25 billion, noting that N9.6 billion had been disbursed to small businesses. According to him, “DBN started about two years ago, we have access to N25 billion in DBN, we have already done N9.6 billion,” he stated. Okonkwo said that the bank would remain committed to the growth and development of SMEs by ensuring disbursement of the remaining balance to qualified small businesses. He also said that the bank had disbursed N2.3 billion from the N220 billion Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) SMEs fund to support small businesses. Okonkwo said that the bank would continue to play actively in various intervention funds initiatives introduced by the Federal Government for SMEs. He said that the bank had also disbursed the sum of N6 billion under the Bank of Industry (BoI) SMEs fund. Okonkwo said that the funds were disbursed to SMEs at single digit for small businesses. He identified funding as a major problem affecting small businesses in Nigeria, noting that the bank would concentrate on SMEs to bridge funding gap. Speaking on the funding connect, Okonkwo said that the bank partnered PWC to bring SMEs to founders and funders. “About 2,500 people entered the competition, we were down to about 12, now finalists are about five,’’ Okonkwo said. He explained that winning the prize was not the major issue but knowledge and interaction these SMEs were exposed to. Speaking on the sidelines during the event, Okonkwo said today’s micro, small and medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have continued to contribute their fair share to the development of Nigeria. “MMEs employ over 80 percent of the country’s total 90.5 million labour force, contribute 48 percent to Nigeria’s gross domestic product (GDP) and constitute over 80 percent of registered exporters in Nigeria. “In spite of the huge potential of MSMEs to create employment opportunities for the country’s youth population, they remain largely bedeviled by a number of problems with limited financing options being one of the main drawbacks they face. “Apart from Lagos, the regional SME conferences will also be held in other locations such as port Harcourt and Kano in the course of this year and at a designated time in 2020. We hope to use the platform provided by these events to connect existing businesses with local and international fund providers, thus drawing widespread attention to the plight of MSMEs in Nigeria,” Okonkwo added. Also speaking, Mr. Ernest Ebi, Chairman Fidelity Bank, assured that the board was solidly behind the management on the initiative. Ebi said that the bank was playing a leading role in SMEs and retail banking space. “SMEs are very important to stimulate economic growth and development, no economy can do without SMEs,’’ he said.