LAGOS – Chief Guy Ikokwu, a lawyer and grand patron of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, a socio-cultural organization has warned Nigeria to restructure this year to avoid a breakup as a united country. The lawyer gave the warning in an interview with Daily Independent, saying that now is the time to restructure the country, saying next year might be too late for the country to remain one. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The elder statesman maintained that all the integral part of this country would go their separate ways if nothing was done urgently, adding that should the country remain together where justice, equity and constitutionality reigns supreme it would become one of the biggest countries in Africa and the world. “We have different republics, self-governance for each part of the country. In the end, they would have a confederation. It happened in Russia, India, Yugoslavia, which broke into six or seven parts and these sovereign republics are not even bigger than Lagos,” he said. According to him, insecurity in the country had reached a dangerous point where those in charge of security apparatus should be invited to give an account of their stewardship. He pointed out that it was obvious that the security apparatus in the country is skewed as only a few sections of the country had representation in the security architecture of the country. Besides, he added that the top hierarchies of the military, the police, the Department of State Services (DSS) were from one section of the country while other parts like South-West, South-East, South-South or the Middle Belt had none. Ikokwu regretted that a situation where banditry, kidnapping, and killings are rampant call for those responsible for safety and security to be held accountable, saying that it continues to beat the imaginations of Nigerians how cattle herders could access AK47 that were not in possession of the army. The Ohanaeze leader, who recalled having lived co-existed for ages with cattle breeders who usually move with sticks and would move on the roadside without entering farms belonging to their host with intent to destroy, now go to towns and villages killing people, killing traditional rulers, house wives, and raping women were neither apprehended or prosecuted by security apparatus.