Nigeria D’Tigers are one of the 32 teams that qualified for the 2019 FIBA World Cup that tips off in China today. The journey to qualify for the tournament began two years ago and now is the time for the team to really prove their mettle at the world stage. For D’Tigers, the first country to qualify for the tournament, the task ahead is not winning the tournament, but at least a podium finish and qualifies for the 2020 Olympics basketball event as the best African team. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A 10-2 finish in the African qualifiers gave Nigeria one of the five African tickets, and the country has won nine games on the bounce beating Senegal along the line before losing two games. Head Coach, Alex Nwora, who led D’Tigers to a 2nd place finish at the 2017 AfroBasket, has assembled a team that is capable of holding its own. Having been with the team for a little over two years, D’Tigers enjoy 6-to-1 odds to finish atop the round-robin, where they will play Russia, Argentina and South Korea. Nwora on Tuesday named Captain Ike Diogu, alongside Ike Iroegbu, Benjamin Uzoh, Al Farouk Aminu, Zanna Talib and Stanley Okoye for the World Cup. Also listed are Stockton Kings, Vincent Nnamdi, new kids on the block, Chimezie Metu, Jordan Nwora and Joshua Okogie. 2016/2017 EuroLeague championship winner and EuroLeague Final Four MVP, Ekpe Udoh will also be in line to make his debut for D’Tigers alongside Michael Eric. Justifying his 12-man roster, he said, “It was very hard pruning the team from 15 to 12. If I had my way, we would have registered all the 15 players for the World Cup because all these players have unique qualities that they bring to the team. “These are the best players we have at our disposal right now. We are very aware of expectations back home.” Nwora knows that expectations are high for the team to perform, admitting that this has continued to motivate the team to go a step further than their 2006 second round appearance in Tokyo. For the team to perform creditably well, the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) despite not supported financially by the government gave the team the best preparation ever for a World Cup or the Olympics. D’Tigers did not only play World Cup bound teams, but against teams rated higher than them and also teams that play the same pattern or something near their group opponents. “These three games in the Peak Tournament will allow us to make adjustments before our first World Cup game against Russia,” says Team manager, Musa Adamu, before they left the country on Tuesday. “Poland plays like Russia, Montenegro plays like Argentina and Iran plays like South Korea. These games will afford us the opportunity of knowing how to play our group games. Iran beat Russia in a friendly. So it is good that we are playing these teams. “These games will also afford us the opportunity of making necessary corrections in the team,” he added. Before taking part in the Peak Invitational Tournament, D’Tigers played three friendly games against World Cup bound teams, Dominican Republic and Canada, winning two and lost one. It beat Dominican Republic 89-87 in its first friendly before losing to Canada 87-96 in their first of two friendlies, stunning Canada in their last friendly game 90-81 in Winnipeg. Before the Peak Tournament that they won beaten Poland 87-84 and Montenegro 89-86, Nigeria lost to Iran that beat Russia in a friendly last week in China. Nwora has assembled a team which he believes is the best. “This is our best preparation for any World Cup,” admitted Col Sam Ahmedu (rtd), a member of the board of the NBBF in a telephone interview on during the week. “We did not just play any team, but teams that the team will benefit from,” he added. Agreed this is Nigerian’s best preparation for the World Cup, does this guarantee qualifying for the Second Round? D’Tigers fell shot in their only game against 10th ranked Russia during the London Olympics Qualifying Tournament in Caracas, Venezuela losing 77-85. Nigeria has lost all the four games against Argentina at both at the World Cup and the Olympics, whereas they’ve not played South Korea. D’Tigers are made up of entirely players that are having their first World Cup experience and team captain Diogu says it’s an additional motivation. Diogu said the chance to be at the World Cup means everything to the members of the squad.”It means a lot because none of us has played in the World Cup. The one time we had a chance of qualifying was in 2013 and we lost in the Quarter-Finals of the AfroBasket. This is the first time for us all and we want to make sure we do something special,” he said. “We have got a lot of good young players and we are all excited to represent Nigeria in the right way. We are preparing very well and we expect to have a successful outing at the World Cup. Individually we know how good we are. We have a good collection of NBA talents and high-level Europe-based talents. We just have to play collectively, as a group, and I guess we should be fine against everybody else.” Aminu, who gave an insight into what awaits them in Wuhan told FIBA.basketball, it’s all about building on the team’s recent growth and try to be one of the group’s two teams to advance to the Second Round. “The first three games of the First Round are going to be our first Finals,” Aminu admitted. “I am really excited for the start of the competition and we are going to start against a very good team of Russia. They have some very good players, with guys such as [Timofey] Mozgov and all their players that are part of some of the best European teams. We will have to be ready and focused from the beginning of the competition, and we won’t have any room for mistakes.” Assessing Nigeria’s most familiar opponent in the group, Aminu described Argentina as a very experienced team. “They play with a lot of intensity. We will have to bring our A game against them,” he said. Trying to stay unbeaten against Korea – since the 1998 Worlds – will require extra team effort, especially because, “[Korea] are going to play close from home, so we can expect a lot of fans coming from Korea to cheer and support them,” the Portland Trail Blazers forward insisted, adding: “The group is very open and every team has a chance to make it to the Next Round. It’s going to be a tough battle, but we will be ready.”
Aminu has become one of Nigeria’s flag bearers in recent years. As a key member of Nigeria’s FIBA AfroBasket 2015 squad, the 28-yearold forward sat out the 2016 Rio Olympics, but he hopes to make his World Cup debut in style. “Our first goal is to fight for a spot to the next round. We want to show that we have been improving and that Nigeria’s competitiveness is very good,” he noted. “We aren’t going to China to play and just go home after three games. We want to go to the knockout stage and have a great run. “We have a lot of potential and we can do great things, we want to make our fans proud. It’s a great achievement for us to compete at this level, and we want to make the best out of this great opportunity. The national team has been improving a lot in the last couple of years, and going to competing at the World Cup is another proof of our improvement.” The 2.03m (6ft8in) Small Forward, Jordan Nwora, is conscious that when he hits the courts in China, there will be great pressure on his shoulders because fans will expect him to surpass himself and make his compatriots proud. In the two previous participations at the planetary basketball showpiece in 1998 and 2006,”D’Tigers” have never been able to worm their way past round 16. But with a plethora of talented players starring in Europe and a cast of skilled players impressing in the National Basketball League (NBA) Jordan feels Nigeria can genuinely challenge for medals in China. “I hope that the coaching staff will be able to assemble the best team – one that Nigeria can be proud of. Our goal is to be one of the countries on the medal podium at the end of the tournament.” Amidst such great confidence, Nwora knows that going past Argentina, Russia and South Korea in the group stages of the FIBA Basketball World Cup will come with its share of challenges “All these teams are very good; our group is a very tough group. But I am confident, and I know that the coaching staff will get us ready for the games,” Nwora noted. Point Guard Josh Okogie, the 20th overall pick in the 2018 NBA Draft, will be a great prospect for Nigeria in China. The Minnesota Timberwolves guard who averages 4.6 points and rebounds per game will come with his defensive presence that will make life difficult for Argentina, Korea and Russia, but that doesn’t mean he cannot score in bunches at the other end. In fact, Okogie averaged 16.9 points per game in his two Georgia Tech seasons, and had 7.7 points each night for the Timberwolves in his rookie season in the NBA. This event could help him grow in confidence as Nigeria have their sights set on being the best African team, not only in China, but also in the history of competition. Egypt was fifth in 1950 and that’s the mark Okogie and teammates are chasing.