Barrister Anthony George-Ikoli, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Bayelsa State, is a gubernatorial aspirant in the state. In a recent interview with select journalists, he spoke on his chances of becoming the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) flag bearer in the forthcoming governorship election, scheduled to hold in November. AKINWUNMI KING brings the excerpts: What informed your decision to join the governorship race in Bayelsa State? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I decided to join the gubernatorial race to change the narrative in the state. I was Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Bayelsa State and I think Bayelsa State deserves better. The current government has done fairly well. Bayelsa State requires somebody with my level of exposure and attainment to build upon the achievements of the current government. I have spent quite a bit of time diagnosing the issues. We need better and more access to education. The current administration has actually tackled it very well. There is need to sustain and build on that legacy. There is need to empower the people. We need to build trust. We need to create an economy so that we don’t run to Abuja or depend on the federal government handout. I can make a huge difference. Considering my track record, what I did as the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice between 2007 and 2012, there is evidence that with someone like me in office, the narrative will change dramatically for the better. Looking at the caliber of those who are in the race, what do you think are your chances? I ran a very successful law practice. I went into government and also proved my mettle. The other contestants did not manage any enterprise successfully. I am not intimidated by the curriculum vitae of other contestants. I think I am better. I think I am the best. When given the opportunity, the story would never be the same again. I know what I can do. People know what I have done. The other contestants are afraid of me. They are afraid of my profile. I don’t see anyone that will make me panic or have undue anxiety. We are hoping that the party will give everyone a fair chance to contest. My chances are bright. From my interaction with all the stakeholders, I’m the candidate to beat. I am the next governor of Bayelsa State. What are the lapses of the current administration that you would want block if you by any chance get the ticket and win the election? First, I would want to commend the late Chief Diepreye Alameyeseigha, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan and our current governor, Seriake Dickson for their contributions towards the development of our dear state. History judges everyone. The current governor is on his way out. History will write his epitaph. Governor Seriake Dickson has done very well. He has raised the bar. It is for us to raise the bar even higher. Bayelsa State is unique. It is the heart beat of the Niger Delta region. It is also a homogenous Ijaw State. Anyone who governs Bayelsa is automatically Ijaw leader. Dickson has done well in protecting the Ijaw nationality and projecting the Ijaw interest in the larger Nigerian context. He has reasons to be proud of his achievements in education, security, managing the resources of the state and infrastructure. You were once part of an administration of the state in which you served as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice. What are the things you wish to do differently from the past administrations? Part of my plans for the state is to fashion the state’s economy in such a manner as to become a net exporter. Bayelsa State needs to expand the size of her economy as a matter of urgent importance. Too much of our economy is centered on Government house and the civil service and that needs to change. Bayelsa must be an export-oriented economy, goods, services and manpower. We want to expand the frontiers of education, create more opportunities and better the lot of everyone. If I am given the opportunity, my administration will take advantage of the Bayelsa’s comparative advantage in deep sea resources to revamp our economy. What I also intend doing is to prioritise science and technology and also recruit well-trained teachers in the state. Educational revolution through a total overhaul of formal instruction methodologies with special emphasis on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) and this would mark the beginning of new direction aimed at excellence in manpower training. We must make ready for the next generation of Bayelsans, for the challenges of the future will be a lot more daunting than the inconveniences of the present. We can no longer stay aloof, feeling sorry for ourselves or reminisce about a past that once was. The time for strong determined action is now. Under my watch, Bayelsa will take the lead in all the current educational metrics and set a benchmark for learning in the region. My administration will also work tirelessly to exploit areas where our state has a clear competitive advantage in agriculture and aquaculture. It is my belief that we can earn substantial income from industrial seafood and cash crop processing. We will save for the rainy day through the creation of a wealth fund. My administration will religiously set aside funds into a Bayelsa Sovereign Fund with which we will undertake a Future Saving Fund and Project Guarantee Fund, from where we will issue matching guarantees for the many large-scale infrastructure projects we will undertake under a strategic Public Private Partnership (PPP) programme. We can grow a new economy and expand our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) up to five times its current size. Bayelsa State is blessed when it comes to aquatic splendour but past administrations seem not to have explored this area. Do you have any plan to use this aspect of natural resources to boost the state economy? I believe we can grow a new economy and expand our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) up to five times its current size and this can be achieved by developing 12 of Bayelsa’s most picturesque beaches, we can create autonomous economic zones that can develop the communities at the grassroots into power houses of economic growth. My overall plan for the economy includes the development of 12 autonomous islands around our various seaward communities using PPP funding model. These islands will be structured around the natural advantage and also the strategic advantage they may have. For instance, seafood export hub in Brass where direct access to the Atlantic and the natural bountiful aquatic wildlife can generate billions in revenue for the state. We must take advantage of the natural beauty of our beaches to develop a sustainable tourism industry. Trust me when I tell you that the multiplier effect of jobs and capital on the micro economy will be immeasurable.