For those conversant with football in the ’80s and ’90s, former youth international, Taiwo Olakunle Oloyede readily comes to mind. Playing football was not by accident because, according to him, football runs in the family. His late father was a former team manager of Stationery Stores of Lagos, while his elder brother, Jide Oloyede, also played for the 1985 Flying Eagles set. So for Taiwo, football was inborn. His humble submission underlies his status given that he broke into national limelight 30 years ago when as a cult hero in Stationery Stores of Lagos. Born on April 24, 1963, the former Flying Eagles captain had handled amateur clubs like Buruj Academy; Eko Akete Football Club among others. He also played for a number of clubs in the country such as the defunct International Bank for West Africa (IBWA); Benue Cement Company (BCC) Lions of Gboko; Rangers International of Enugu; Julius Berger of Lagos, before retiring in 2004. He, however, missed the famous ‘Dammam Miracle’ World Youth Championship (WYC) hosted by Saudi Arabia in 1989. No thanks to a last minute injury that ruled him out of the history making U-20 team. Now a qualified coach from the National Institute for Sports (NIS) where he obtained a certificate in Advance coaching and Licensing Certificate C, Oloyede in an interview with our DEPUTY SPORT EDITOR, AYO BADA, said his coaching certificate was the best thing to happen to him as it was a dream comes true. He also bares his mind on other issues affecting football in the country as well as reviewing the performance of the Super Eagles at this year’s Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, his past experience; family background among others. Excerpts: Is Super Eagles third position at the 2019 AFCON in Egypt worth celebrating? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Of course yes. The team is a young side and it serves as a good summer for those retiring and for some that are just coming up. It means some of them started from somewhere with something to show for it. We lost the trophy ourselves due to the carelessness of the goalkeeper. Did the team really prepared for the tournament? Since I have been into football, either through playing or administering, preparations for the 2019 AFCON in Egypt were one of the best in the history of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The coaches were given free hands. No owing of match allowance or bonuses. The players and officials got all the best they needed. Preparation for the tournament was adequate. However, the NFF should not relent. The leadership should continue to do their best for the national teams. What of players demanding for money before a match? Don’t blame the players for asking for their monies. I personally don’t blame them because some of them are their families bread winners and the little they are able to bring from such assignments is what the families would feed on. Rather than blaming the players, they should be encouraged to continue to serve the country. In your opinion, is there any outstanding player in the team at Egypt? Hmm..yes, about three of them. Samuel Chukwueze, Wilfred Ndidi and Etebo Oghenekaro. The trio has proved that they are players of the future in the team. They really lived up to expectations and one must commend them. Others too tried their best but their best was not enough. By and large, the entire team needs to be praised. You said Nigeria would have won the AFCON trophy if not for the carelessness of the goalkeeper. Does this not presuppose that we have problems with the goalkeeping department of the team? We have three goalkeepers at the tournament. The coaches too were there; we have Alloy Agu and Imama Amakapabo (both former goalkeepers), so they know more than those of us outside the team. The team started with Ikechukwu Ezenwa but dumped him for Francis Uzoho enroute to the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia and he fumbled. Then, they turned to Daniel Akpeyi who also messed up. I am particularly disappointed in him because he ought to know and do better than the others as the most senior keeper in the team, but also ended up making silly mistakes. In fact, he (Akpeyi) did not live up to expectations and should go and rest. There are goalkeepers who are better than Uzoho in our local league. The fact is that we don’t have good Nigerian goalkeepers outside the country since Vincent Enyeama retired and we lost Carl Ikeme to Lukemania. Those outside there are not keeping regularly for their clubs but we have good goalkeepers in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) and the Nigeria National League (NNL) such as Theophlius Afelokhai of Enyimba; Suraj Ayeleso of Kano Pillars; Olorunleke Ojo of Akwa United and Dele Ajiboye of Plateau United to mention but few. It is right time the technical crew of the team should look inward for the Super Eagles goalkeepers. Are you in support that Gernot Rohr should be sacked? To me as a coach, I cannot blame Rohr for what happened with the team in Egypt. Since he has been winning, nobody sees his shortcomings or anything bad about him. He may have his technical faults but sacking him is not the solution to the problem of the team. Let him continue and give him some time to adjust. Clemmens Westerhof had five years to perform and so let him (Rohr) also be given time to groom those young players together. Sacking is not the solution for now. If he has won this year’s AFCON trophy, nobody would be talking about sacking him. On the other hand, I am not in support of sending him to a refresher course. Let the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) select some of the Nigerian coaches for the refresher course. Nigerian coaches need the assistance of the NFF and such assistance can come in form of sending them to refresher courses. Many thought the Super Eagles should have defeated the Fennecs Foxes of Algeria in their semifinal match, but that was not to be the case. In your view, what did you think caused the team the defeat? Well, to me the Algerian team played better and deserved to win. The Super Eagles did not play the way they did against the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon and the Bafana Bafana of South Africa. It was only in the second half that they showed sign of a serious team but it was too late. Algeria changed their pattern and tactics. They clipped the Super Eagles wings and our coach did not read the match very well and that is where I blamed him (Rohr) but it was a lesson for the team and the country to learn.So the coaches were at fault in that match and we still lacked players like the late Muda Lawal; Henry Nwosu; Sunday Oliseh; Friday Ekpo. We need to discover players that can play like them. How did you see officiating at Egypt 2019 with no Nigerian referee? To me, I would rather say that am disappointed that no Nigerian referee at the FIFA Women’s World Cup and at the AFCON in Egypt. They (Nigerian referees) should step up and live up to expectations so that they can be at par with their colleagues from other football playing countries. By and large, officiating at the AFCON 2019 was fair enough. If not for Video Assistant Referee (VAR), we would have had a bad scenario in Egypt. With VAR, the mistakes were reduced. Coaches should not attack referees because of an outcome of a match, knowing fully well that coaches and referees are the same in this profession as they work hand-in-hand. If you do not meet them now, you might meet them tomorrow. After AFCON 2019 in Egypt, what is the way forward for the team? Well, 80 percent of the team should be kept together. Early camping will be best for the team in future competitions. The coaches should stop brining bench warmers to camp. Let Rohr do like Westerhof by mixing home-based players with their foreign-based ones. But I think Rohr is afraid to take chances just because he did not have confidence in himself and in the home-based players. The home-based players too should be serious to earn a place in the team. This is where hard work and determination comes in. You are a product of the Nigerian league having played for several clubs in the past. How do you see the league now? Whether we like it or not, the league has improved a little bit. There are some good pitches now in some of the states but on the management level; there is still a lot to be done. There is still room for improvement. Owing of players’ salaries and sign-on fees as well as allowances should stop. They should stop depriving the players their rights if they want the best from them. They should also improve on the remunerations of the players. This will make the players to step up their game and put in their best. It will also reduce the exodus of the players to other countries. You love football so much, what is the secret and why? When I was growing up, the only thing I knew was football. This is because my father played the game and also administered it. We were always going to the stadium. All my siblings also played the game. My father was then Team Manager of Stationery Stores Football Club and in my family we wanted to grow up and play for the team. My father also served in the Ikeja Football Divisional Association (IFDA) as secretary. While other youngsters played football for fun, I started seeing myself as a professional from primary school. I played for Lagos Mainland Primary School, Fadeyi, and CMS Grammar School, Bariga. I enjoyed great popularity at school and everywhere I got to I was hailed as a star. And that made me want to play the game more. However, that time we did not play for money but for prestige. I remember that The Principal Cup (Football competition for secondary schools in Lagos) was a big thing in my time. As members of the school team you have privileges that you enjoy and it is a big thing when you win the competition. So football runs in my veins.I was a Stores supporter and sometimes I cried whenever my team lost to a rival team. Eventually I was signed up by Stores and later captained my childhood team too. I played for Stores for five years and the team was really hot that time with players like Ike Shorunmu, Ganiyu Ajide, Sunday Ilevbare, Wasiu Adetoro and Hakeem Ogunlade. We won many trophies among them, the national league, FA Cup and got to the semifinals of the CAF Champions League losing to Zamalek of Egypt in 1993. How about your immediate family? I have three children; a boy and two girls – but it is the girls that have shown interest in playing football and I am encouraging them. The sky is their limits. Any regret taking into football? No regret whatsoever. In spite of the ups and downs of life, I am comfortable with my life. Some of my mates are late today; some are not up to what I am worth, so I give glory to God Almighty for who I am today, most especially for my fame. Everywhere I go today people hail me, ‘Up Super, Up Stores’. I may not have all the money but I am very comfortable. What are you doing presently? I am into coaching. I recently graduated from the National Institute for Sports (NIS) with a coaching certificate. I also have an academy that I am handling; it is called Vino Gano Football Academy based in Ikorodu. We are grooming young players that can be future stars and sell themselves to the world as well as fit into the national teams. Are there supports from anywhere? Well, the academy is owned by a family friend, Ganiyu Olawale Hassan with the name of his company. The company produces wine. I played together with his brothers – Tairu Hassan and Alao Hassan during our playing days at the International Bank for West Africa (I.B.W.A). Ganiyu himself was a former footballer with late coach Olu Ayila of the defunct Agip FC. Do you still play football? Yes, I do. I play ‘leisure’ football regularly as a member of All Stars International to about five centres. The All Stars International involves ex-stars that have played the game of football to a certain level from the grassroots and have now retired from active football. The likes of Friday Ekpo; Friday Elaho; Jide Oguntuwase; Wasiu Ipaye; Henry Nwosu; Peter Nieketien; Godson Igwe; Duke Udi; to mention but few.I am a member of Isolo centre under the name ‘The Managers’; I am a member of the Ikeja centre under the name ‘The Galaticos’; I am a member of All Stars in Ikorodu; I am a member of the Lagos Island centre under the name ‘Golden Ages’ and I am a member of the Obanikoro centre. We do have competitions from time to time and apart of the competitions, we do train regularly including Saturdays and Sundays. Advice to the young ones I have always been saying it that they should not be too ambitious. Every one of them wants to go to Europe for greener pastures but it should not be so. They should be able to be contended here at home. During our days, Europe was not the issue, but the honour and prestige of playing for one’s country. There are good players here in Nigeria that are doing very well and even better than those that rushed out to play in Europe.