ABUJA – So many secrets and hidden personal issues, buried over time, were exposed during the just concluded presidential election tribunal.
Witnesses, who were invited, exposed so many secrets capable of sending one to jail in a sane clime, but unfortunately, ours is a society where individuals are stronger than the institutions.
The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, who is challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressive Congress (APC) at the tribunal, was said to be an alien, a foreigner and as such, not eligible to contest elections in Nigeria.
But, analysing this development, some analysts were of the opinion that this narrative and allegation was thrown up to deride the image and person of the PDP presidential candidate, as Atiku, who was a former Vice President and a custom officer in Nigeria, rose from the rank and file to hold a major position in the Custom service and was never accused of being a foreigner.
Buhari on the other hand, who was declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as the winner of the 2019 election, was accused of not having the required qualifications to contest the election.
Issue of Buhari’s credentials, which has become controversial, was further brought to the front burner during the tribunal and was called to question.
Those, who spoke at the tribunal as key witnesses, presented by President Buhari, exposed the controversial development behind the credentials. According to political analysts, the witnesses did more harm than good during cross-examination at the tribunal.
One of the witnesses, Major Gen. Paul Tarfa (Rtd), who was admitted into the army with Buhari, had debunked President Buhari’s position that his credentials were taken from him during recruitment.
Tarfa, who was a mate of President Buhari in the Nigerian Army, had told the tribunal that it was not true that their academic credentials were taken from them during recruitment.
He had also told the Tribunal that the claim that he and members of his set were asked to hand over their school certificates to the Nigerian Army while being enlisted in 1962, was false.
Tarfa, who was testifying as Buhari’s first defence witness in the petition filed by Atiku, explained during cross-examination by counsel for INEC, Yunus Usman (SAN), that he was enlisted in the Nigerian Army alongside Buhari and others on April 16, 1962.
He confirmed that the medium of instruction “was English language and English language alone.”
When he was asked by the INEC’s lawyer to confirm if, he and other course mates were asked to hand over their certificates to the Nigerian Army during their enlistment, Tarfa, said, “there was nothing like that.”
Another major damage to the President’s defense was the West African Examination Council (WAEC) Deputy Registrar, Mr. Oshindehinde Adewumi, who told the Court during the tribunal that the Cambridge Assessment International Education certified statement of results presented to the court by President Buhari was not issued by WAEC and that WAEC did not issue any certificate to President Buhari.
Adewumi, who was one of the star witnesses of President Buhari, denied issuing WAEC certificate to the President.
He told the court that he only certified President Buhari’s statement of result and not certificate.
When asked during cross-examination to certify exhibit R21 (Cambridge Assessment International Certified Statement), Adewumi said, “This document is not bearing my name or signature. You cannot expect me to certify a document that is not from WAEC. This document is bearing Cambridge Assessment International Certified Statement. It is not a document from the WAEC.”
He said that he couldn’t confirm Buhari’s Cambridge Assessment International Certified Statement of West African School Certificate issued in 1961.
It would be recalled that when the controversy of certificate in his first term was ragging, President Buhari had said that his credentials were with the military, even though the military had denied holding his certificate, and also recalled that WAEC officials had gone to the Villa to present a certificate to the President, which was widely displayed and the news circulated to the world at that time to disabuse the minds of Nigerians on the issue.
However, all these fell apart at the tribunal during cross-examination.
Other glaring issues that were made known during the tribunal and which were also condemned by local and international observers, were over voting in some states; numbers of votes cast not tallying with result; use of state powers, security agents to intimidate voters on election day; snatching of ballot boxes, and replacing same with thump printed ballot papers; beating of voters at polling units by thugs loyal to a particular party; burning of ballot boxes, papers, stuffing of ballot and host of other electoral malpractices during the elections.
The observers, in their assessment, have called for electoral reforms to change the narrative in future elections in the country.
As if to break the resolve and frustrate Atiku from pursuing his case at the judiciary, Mr. Abdulahi Babalele, son-in-law to Waziri Atiku Abubakar and Finance Director of Atiku’s Group of Companies, has been arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
Also arrested was another Director in Waziri Atiku Abubakar’s company, Mr. Uyi Giwa Osagie.
While the family of Atiku, have described the development as “hostage taking at the highest level”, observers have described it as an aberration and inimical to a society clamoring for growth and development.
It was also observed that the intimidation and harassment was not only to cripple Atiku’s personal investments but also to put pressure on him to negotiate and withdraw his petition.
However, the PDP has sent a strong message to the presidency and the APC to leave Atiku alone and face their self-inflicted resentment from Nigerians by answering for their misrule for which compatriots have now become agitated on all fronts.
PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “it is despicable that the Buhari Presidency and the APC have not yet realised that Nigerians are aware that since their defence fell apart at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, they have become nervous and desperate to invent any means to frame and drag down Atiku Abubakar; a plot that has already failed.
“It is indeed not surprising that the APC, in its desperation, is now playing opposition, which is a role fitting of it, being that, it does not have the mandate of the people; the very reason it cannot command the respect, loyalty and support of the citizens in the midst of its misrule.”
The party boasted that Atiku cannot be intimidated or distracted from pursing the retrieval of his alleged stolen Presidential mandate at the tribunal.
“Instead of fixating on Atiku, the APC should help the Commander-in-Chief, to provide answers for escalated insecurity in our country under his watch; with insurgents, marauders, bandits and kidnappers holding our nation hostage and turning her into a killing field and large funeral palour in the last four years.
“The APC should rather be helping President Buhari to answer Nigerians on how his administration wrecked our once robust economy, entrenched corruption, frittered trillions of naira, turned our nation into world poverty capital and foisted joblessness, acute hunger and starvation; human right abuses and downright impunity, which have spurred resentment to the extent that Nigerians are now desperate to take their destinies in the hands with many resorting to suicide and slavery missions abroad.
“Moreover, the APC should look inwards, do some soul searching and face the miseries it sired instead of seeking for a scapegoat where there is none.”
With all these developments, narratives and disclosures trailing the 2019 election, would the judiciary be bold enough to dispense justice?