Dr. Junaid Mohammed, elder statesman and Second Republic House of Representatives member, in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI speaks on the inauguration of new Ministers by President Muhammadu Buhari, attack on former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu by members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and other issues. Excerpts: President Muhammadu Buhari has inaugurated and assigned portfolios to the 43 Ministers he recently appointed. Can you say these new set of Ministers are round pegs in round holes? I know some of the ministers and I have an idea of the portfolios and the responsibilities as far as the ministry is concerned. For example, it is quite evident to talk about Finance, Aviation, Education or others but since I don’t know many of the ministers, I think it will be presumptuous of me to comment on what they can do as regards the ministries assigned to them. I don’t think that will be fair to me or to them. So, I think one should wait a little before making comment. If you look at the APC in 2015, there was a lot of hoopla about how the ministers will perform but at the end of the day, any honest person will see that there was disappointment as far as the ministerial performances are concerned. Also, towards this last election of 2019, we had a lot of propaganda garbage, people talking about the Next Level. To me, the next level is typical propaganda when you have nothing to offer. They keep shouting Next Level but when you ask them to define what the next level is, everybody keeps his mouth shut. That is what I see in the APC as far as I am concerned. So, if you have not defined what the Next Level is and what are the expectations in the Next Level, whoever you assign to any Ministry or portfolio doesn’t make any sense. It is the performance that matters. And when we haven’t seen the performance on ground, putting some garbage together and calling it Next Level means nothing to us and it shows the contempt in which Nigerians are being held and that I think is very unfortunate. You can’t keep telling us about Next Level every day when you have nothing to offer Nigerians except propaganda. That is very dangerous. What is your reaction to the attack on former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu by some members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Germany? The attack is condemnable. It shows that we are trying to project the lousy politics we play at home at the international stage. He is not my kind of person but he is entitled to certain respects as an individual and a prominent person from his area. But you see, the way the government was handled during the time of former President Goodluck Jonathan and where we are today, I am not surprised at the anger of Nigerians which has moved beyond the borders of this country. I must state categorically that scoundrels like Nnamdi Kanu who are being supported by some of their tribesmen in the diaspora are causing a lot of problems for this country. Unless they are handled with an iron fist, Nigeria will have no peace. I don’t care about the politics of Ekweremadu but if you extend tribal politics to the level that he and some of his leaders of his types have extended it and they are willing to support scoundrels like Nnamdi Kanu or IPOB, then that is the kind of result you get which is very dangerous. Are you in essence saying the attack may be justified given their support for  IPOB? I do not support an attack on any person or his family because of his political belief. I hope those of them who have been fanning the embers of disunity and those who think they can blackmail Nigeria into conceding the Presidency to them will now think twice and see clearly that they have shown their character in their attitudes towards power. That is very disastrous and I don’t think Nigerians should hand over power to these kinds of characters. First, they have shown that they are not reliable and also, they have caused a lot of mayhem in the history of Nigeria, from 1966 till date. They caused tribal coups and very bad handling of their minority in and of course, they are directly responsible for the loss of the Southern Cameroun from Nigeria to the French Cameroun. They have a lot to learn from living with other people and must see that other people from ethnic group different from theirs are entitled to be respected. They must also know that they can’t use blackmail to achieve what they want. That seems to be their own idea that they can use raw power which can be dangerous to our democracy. So, it is a pity that Ekweremadu was manhandled by IPOB but at the same time, they should also know the kind of local champions they are sponsoring with their own money. Like I said in a previous interview, if you check the figures from the election of 2003 until 2015, Buhari has never won his home state of Katsina. You can see that the fact that he came from Katsina was neither here nor there. His own people couldn’t vote for him in three elections. But what happens in Southeast is that you have people who enforce their Igbo hegemony on other people by violence, and if the election doesn’t go their own way they go and produce Kanu and IPOB. I remember former President Jonathan being persuaded by the Yoruba that the Sovereign National Conference was going to be by ethnic groups, I pointed out to them and I remember that Murtala Nyako also pointed it directly to Jonathan that if you do that it won’t work. Like in Taraba, there are 72 ethnic groups and in Adamawa, there are also 82 ethnic groups, while Yoruba has only one ethnic group, and all of them speak one language and one culture. How do you equate their representation at the Sovereign National Conference with that of 82 from Adamawa and 72 from Taraba? You can see people talk rubbish; they don’t know what they are talking about because they don’t know themselves. Will they accept it if you say that all the Hausa should bring the same number of people with the Yoruba because they are each ethnic group, but there are other minor ethnic groups in the North?