Honourable Ganiyu Johnson is the member representing Oshodi/Isolo Federal Constituency II. The former Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure in Lagos State, in an interview with journalists, talked about the major changes he intends bringing to his constituency and other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: At the just concluded Eid-El Kabir, you had what would be called a non-partisan celebration, what informed that decision? Well, the lesson from Eid-El- Kabir is that of love and peace and there cannot be love when you are discriminating against one another. Electioneering is over and by the grace of God I now have the mandate of my constituents. It is true that I contested under the All Progressives Congress (APC) but right now I am representing everybody in Oshodi-Isolo federal constituency II, whether they are in APC, PDP or the other political parties. I have a responsibility to care for everybody irrespective of party affiliation, so that was why I decided to extend the gift to everybody so that all of us would celebrate together. It was actually to show the spirit of inclusiveness so that people would know that we were one. There is no more politics of bitterness or winner takes it all. We must be able to accommodate one another. I am an advocate for progress and development. You know that there cannot be progress and development if there is no peace and if the people are not united. Since the election is over, I believe in inclusive representation. If I am able to bring a road project in my constituency, you cannot say that somebody in another party will not drive on it because he or she did not vote for APC. My mission in the National Assembly is to help attract development to Oshodi-Isolo federal constituency 2. This constituency used to be a PDP stronghold. How were you able to turn the table in your favour? Most of the electorate in this constituency I would say have a good relationship with me, because in the past ten or twelve years, I have been interacting with the people through my Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) programme. I have carried out a lot of empowerment programmes, which have benefitted the widows, the youth and students, I have extended GCE forms to them. I have also organised tutorials for them. I have given them trainings and soft loans to widows for their businesses. During festive periods like Easter, Christmas and Ramadan, they have received gifts from me. Like I said earlier we have a relationship and so when I desired to represent them, they all supported me en-masse and that is why we are talking of victory today. What can you say about the insinuation in some quarters that you could display some ethnic or religious bias as a representative? It is not possible to have anyone insinuate that because I am for everyone as I earlier said. In my family, I have members who are Christians as well as Muslims and we have lived peacefully. I have worked with people from other ethnic groups and we had a very robust relationship and I can confidently tell you that I have a good number of friends who are not from my ethnic group even in this constituency. I have other tribes work with me in my constituency office. If you can remember what I said earlier, that during Christmas and Easter festive periods, I give gifts to my people. I cannot do that if I am biased. I am sure it could be one of those campaign talks. We are done with campaigns and we are back to business, good representation to the people and I can assure you that my people are in good hands. What are the major challenges in your constituency? As a technocrat, I know that the level of development in my constituency is not what it should be. I know what to do to meaningfully develop the constituency. Look at the Mushin Road, which I am presently considering, the road between Pako, NNPC to Lagos State Polytechnic, across the bridge need to be worked on. The Apapa/Oshodi axis has been done into a dual carriage way by the state government, we expect the same thing on the other side of the road. NNPC has a depot in Ejigbo and over 50 trucks pass through that road everyday. We are making a case with the federal government through the NNPC, since they have a depot there it should be their responsibility to upgrade the road and the bridge across. When that is done, there would be a relief because you can hardly pass through that road without a breakdown. The Okota Road that was built during the era of Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) is in need of urgent attention. The canal is supposed to be an asset to us but today it is a dead trap. Once there is heavy rain, everywhere would be flooded. I am pushing for the canal to be dredged. If that is done, we can even introduce water transportation from Ejigbo to Lagos, through Mile 2. We can through personal relationship with the governor facilitate some major roads construction and rehabilitation, including healthcare services. We want to take advantage of the airport close to us. There should be a policy that they should recruit certain percentage of our people. It can be done through FAAN and other agencies because we receive all the noise pollution and should be compensated, even if it is one percent. This is what I want to push as a bill. As the former Commissioner for Works in Lagos State, what do you have to say about the Lagos-Badagry Expressway which seemed to be abandoned until recently when Governor Sanwo-Olu decided to commence work? The road was not abandoned. It was my project when I was special adviser to the commissioner for works. They just maintained a skeletal staff because of fund, so that they could manage the resources available to them. It is a welcome development that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is willing to complete the project. Eric Moore to Mile 2 was phase one. We had two companies working on the project and they had challenge of interface. Julius Berger was handling the road and CCECC the rail line. There was problem of interface, so when we wanted to handle phase 2 from Mile 2 to Okokomaiko, we considered the interface issue. There was a time that Julius Berger had to stop work to enable CCECC put the railway stations. Government had to hand it over to one company when we wanted to embark on the second phase. We also segmented the project to three and segment one is almost 80 percent completed. Segment two had gone 65 percent and the third segment is just taking off because of some issue with the military on the right of way. Today, that project is on cause and with the zeal demonstrated by the Governor, I would tell you that you would see a meaningful progress. Our target is to get to Agbara and the federal government would take it up from there to Seme. Lagos State government decided to do it since the federal government was not ready and it was our people that suffered. It is the same story as Murtala Muhammed International Airport Road, where Lagos State government took over the work because it is in Lagos State, we felt the deplorable condition was giving the state a bad image. The Murtala Muhammed Airport Road is the first thing that foreigners see when they come into the country. It is the first point of call and gives an impression. Why don’t we get to see much constituency projects in spite of billions of naira being voted? Let me tell you the truth. It is not as if the honourable members don’t want to do constituency projects. The issue is that the way the constituency funds are allocated, the big states are disadvantaged. Some states have more than 30 Local Governments Areas (LGAs) while some have less than 20. In allocating funds for constituency projects, all the states are given the same amount of money. Oyo State for example has 33 LGAs while Bayelsa has only seven. If 200 million naira is disbursed for example, Oyo and Bayelsa would be given the same amount of money. You can see that if the money for Oyo State is shared to their constituencies, it could amount to nothing. That is why the most they can do is hold seminars, workshop and do little empowerments, this is the major challenge lawmakers from the big states have as regard constituency projects. This is a constitutional issue and I feel that we can come together and change the narrative.