LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari has taken a hard look at the global economic and social situations and came to a scathing conclusion that over 40 million people, made up of men, women and children, are still living in forced servitude all over the world. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Buhari, in a published opinion in the Washington Post to mark the International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and its Abolition, a United Nations programme held yearly on August 23, called for concerted actions to check the alarming rate people were being pushed into modern day slavery. According to the president, “As we reflect on this day, International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and Its Abolition, it is clear that slavery did not only thrive then. It still thrives today. Across the world, it is estimated there are as many as 40 million men, women and children living in forced servitude. “They are the industrial victims of a business many believe was abolished hundreds of years ago. They are the modern enslaved. Their exploitation appears in many guises, though usually unrecognised as slavery.” Buhair explained that many victims of modern day slavery could not be easily seen, but had been hidden under opaque supply chains, while several others were hidden in plain sight, entrapped by circumstances that rob them of autonomy. Such people, he said labour under dangerous situations, which were not of their choice, but still self-perpetuating conditions. He stated that in Africa, modern forms of slavery included debt bondage, enslavement of war captives, commercial sexual exploitation and forced domestic servitude, even as he stressed that, “Holding people against their will, controlling their movements and forcing them to work for the sole profit of others, wherever they are, is slavery today and always.” Going historically, Buhari recalled that four centuries ago, the first 20 documented African slaves arrived on the shores of Virginia, lamenting that in the years that followed, millions more were shipped in dehumanising conditions across the ocean and enslaved. He maintained that though slavery had existed before, the shipment of millions from the shores of Africa indicated the beginning of a mechanised trade that saw human beings reduced to property on an unprecedented scale. Buhari stressed: “Despite the fact that descendants of African slaves have made valuable contributions across society, they are still dealing with the effects of this poisonous legacy. They still have to navigate its everyday manifestations, such as discrimination, racism or lack of access to resources and opportunities. This must not be overlooked or forgotten.” He stated that the abolitionists of the 19th century succeeded more than any before, adding that by working to extinguish the transatlantic slave trade that had claimed 15 million victims, they laid the groundwork to ensure it did not manufacture millions more. He, however, noted that the work of the abolitionists had not been fully accomplished, even as he urged world leaders to take it up from where they stopped, stressing, “Their work is not done. We must take up their examples as we forge a path forward to eliminate modern day slavery in all its forms.” Buhari maintained that modern day slavery, like in the past, had become entwined in the global economy, also in a largely unseen manner. “For instance, most of us might know in principle that the mining of cobalt crucial to our smartphones might have used forced labour. But, what do we know of those that experienced it? Just as personal testimony and resulting public pressure led to the passing of the Act for the Abolition of the Slave Trade in Britain in 1807, these stories must be told and used to inform policy. “Once heard, they can elevate visceral reactions, driving the public pressure needed to ensure the application of anti-slavery laws. “One distinction from then and now is important: the costs. From records, adjusted for today’s prices, the cost of a human-being-as-property was valued on average at $40,000. Today, it is just $90, sometimes even lower. “We must remember that slavery is not simply a campaign of hatred; it is the pursuit of profit. One way to extinguish it in its current forms, therefore, is to make it economically unfeasible. This means making sure that any anti-slavery laws have bite, come with strong penalties and are enforced. “It is also vital to have a robust tip-off and reporting system. Where this once meant detecting ships, today, the signs are less conspicuous. The public must be shown how to see what is hidden in plain sight, particularly signs of suspicious behaviour. “This might seem broad. But, vagueness should not give rise to reluctance to report anything that could be smuggling or forced servitude. If something doesn’t look right, report it, for you could be securing another human’s freedom.” Buhari pointed out that in Nigeria, the country’s anti-trafficking agency had rolled out the ‘Not for Sale’ campaign to protect against the deceptions of human smugglers, helping those who might be vulnerable to false promises see through the ruse and say no, a prevention programme he described as crucial. He stated that although the appearance of slavery today might have changed, the institution had not, adding that, “There are no radical solutions to conjure, only political will. But, on this, we can learn from the past, the shadows in which modern slavery proliferates today.” The president, however, said that it was not enough to mark the 400th anniversary, but, “We must use it as a platform to eliminate slavery in all its present-day forms. We should reflect in memory to find a better future, one that should ensure freedom for all.”