Abuja – Action Democratic Party (ADP) may be a direct beneficiary of the looming mass action against the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State as aggrieved disqualified aspirants have expressed their desire to defect.
The 12 aggrieved governorship aspirants of the APC are believed to have opened talks with the ADP ahead of the governorship election with the intention to back one of them.
The aspirants had on Monday night addressed a press conference where they threatened to drag the APC to court to challenge their disqualification by the APC screening committee, but it appears they have opted to take the bull by the horns and seek refuge elsewhere.
Engr. Yabagi Sani, National Chairman of the ADP, hinted at a briefing on Tuesday that the aggrieved aspirants in Kogi had approached the leadership of the ADP.
“I can confirm to you that we are discussing, and I can confirm that we in the ADP will ensure a level playing field for all, unlike what they are experiencing in the APC,” Yabagi stated.
He also disclosed that the party was planning a youth summit geared towards sustaining the growth of the youths in the party.
The summit with the theme, ‘Building Bridges among Youth across Continents’, ADP national chairman said, would be addressed by the youngest member of the British Conservative Party with a rising profile, Jaymey Mclvor, as the guest speaker.
Yabagi also revealed that his party had launched a campaign tagged, ‘Not-Too-Young-To-Win’ to increase youth competence and participation in politics.
“Amongst the various topics for discussion, as carefully put together by the planning committee, are Youths Political Orientation, Insecurity as a Bane of Youth Development in Nigeria, Youth Migration and its Impact on our Socio-Economic Development, Bi-Lateral Trade with Youths as Catalysts, and Human Capital Development.
“The theme for this summit was deliberately selected for Peer Review, Networking and Synergy to develop skills required for effective competitiveness in the global economic arena,” he said. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network