ABUJA – Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives, on Wednesday vowed to defy protocols to ensure that he carried out landmark reforms in the House of Representatives.
He gave this indication when the House of Representatives Press Corps received him at its Media Centre in the National Assembly, Abuja.
The Speaker, who said that he was out to ensure that things were done differently under his Speakership to ensure the nation’s development, disclosed that the lawmakers have understood the need to embark on reforms, starting with themselves.
This, he said, was the reason he stopped the intended reaccreditation for the media in the House, believing that no one was perfect, that if the lawmakers had their pitfalls and were reforming, then the journalists should also be allowed to reform themselves.
Gbajabiamila said he was happy that he employed some members of the corps to his media team after much research about them to prove their worthiness.
“We have a lot of reforms we want you to support. We are going to hurt a lot of people in the process, but we must do the reforms,”, the Speaker said.
He said that he has adopted the media in the House as part of his joint task team for nation building.
“In four years, we are going to be working together. Working together depends on how you are looking at it, but in this case it means developing Nigeria together.
“Your reporting must change and be as accurate as they should be”, the Speaker said, stressing that both negative and positive reports must be balanced and accurate.
In her remark, Grace Ike, chairman of the House of Representatives Press Corps, urged the Speaker to ensure a law that would enhance journalism professional practice.
She regretted that when Gbajabiamila was a minority leader, such bill was not allowed to survive.
She expressed faith in the ability of the Speaker and the crop of lawmakers in the 9th Assembly to go all out against all odds to achieve this, believing that the government would support such bill.