LAGOS – The recent election that produced 84-year-old professor of history, Prof. Adebanji Akintoye, as the new Yoruba leader, has continued to generate lot of reactions from individuals and socio-cultural groups in the south west, with many of them denouncing and distancing themselves from the election. According to history, the first Yoruba leader to emerge was late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. After his death in 1987, Awolowo was succeeded by late Chief Michael Adekunle Ajasin, one of Awolowo’s trusted allies and associates. Ten years after Awolowo’s death. Ajasin also passed on to join his ancestors and the mantle of Yoruba leadership was passed on to late Pa Abraham Adesanya who served in that capacity till 2008. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Since the demise of late Adesanya, the Yoruba leadership space has been left unfilled and in a bid to fill this vacuum, some Yoruba leaders converged in Ibadan converged on Ibadan, the Oyo State capital last Thursday to elect a new leader and eventually, the said election produced Prof. Akintoye. After the purported election was conducted, the professor was said to have polled 71 votes making him defeat, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who allegedly was drafted into the contest and ended up polling just three votes. The group, which came under the umbrella of Assembly of All Yoruba Groups Worldwide, unanimously endorsed Akintoye after his nomination by the Chief Imam of Yoruba in Ilorin, Sheikh Abdulraheem Aduamigba. The nomination of Prof. Akintoye, which was said to be based on his antecedents and contributions to the development of the Yoruba race, was affirmed by the delegates of the groups that attended the meeting. Even though he was not present at the meeting, Akintoye was said to have satisfied the qualities set by the groups for a new leader of the race. In its reaction, the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), condemned the election maintaining that those who conducted the election have no powers to do such. “The Yoruba nation is the largest ethnic nation in Nigeria and in Africa; Yoruba are in prime positions in the professions, academia and business. “A group of people cannot arrogate to themselves the right to gather in a hotel to choose a leader for such sophisticated people. That exercise trivialises the essence of our being. Certainly, Prof. Akitoye that I know very well and respect must have been embarrassed. He could not have been part of the charade,” said Dr. Kunle Olajide said, the General Secretary of YCE. Another socio-cultural group, Coalition of Oodua Self-Determination Group (COSEG), while condemning the election stated that the Yoruba leaders don’t emerge through elections. While describing the election as a sham and ploy to create unnecessary bickering in the South West region, the group maintained that in the history of Yoruba leaders, none has ever emerged through an election. Chairman of the coordinating council of COSEG, Comrade Dayo Ogunlana said in a statement that those who organised the “sham election” are not in any way empowered to engage in such a “delicate matter”. According to Ogunlana, since the days of Chief Obafemi Awolowo till the era of Pa Abraham Adesanya, no election was held “but they all emerged as leaders naturally and the people accepted them wholeheartedly. “The purported election of a supposed Yoruba leader is an affront that cannot stand anywhere. All the past Yoruba leaders were never elected but thrown up naturally. So we were surprised when some political lackeys of failed politicians in the region organised a political meeting, dubbed such a Yoruba meeting and elected a reputable Yoruba son as leader. “This sham cannot stay and we wish to inform the whole world that what took place in Ibadan was a meeting of some failed politicians. Where in history were they told Yoruba leaders were elected? “Actually we would have kept quiet over the matter because we are sufficiently knowledgeable to know that such a charade cannot stand but several calls from prominent Yoruba sons and daughters across the globe made this intervention necessary. “It’s pertinent to note that no notable Yoruba elder or prominent son or daughter was at the Ibadan charade, which invariably signifies that it was not a truly Yoruba meeting. Moreover, few of those mentioned to have participated denounced their presence talk less of nominating anyway one. All these are pointer to the effect that those behind the charade are desperate politicians who have failed and trying to seek relevance again,” the statement read in part. The group pointed out that Prof. Akintoye is a great son of Yoruba Land, who has paid his dues but added that the process, which produced him, was fraught with irregularities “which we can’t overlook as the organisers of the show of shame are out to destroy him, Yoruba virtues and the race itself,” COSEG added. Few days ago, a meeting was said to have held at the home of the National Leader of Afenifere, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, where Prof. Akintoye was also in attendance. The meeting was allegedly called to persuade the historian to step down because of the negative reactions his election had generated. Reports also have it that, the 84- year old historian has vowed never to step down. Spokesman of Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, who also commented on the issue, dismissed insinuations of any crisis, saying there is no leadership crisis in Yoruba Land, but was quick to add that was no way there was no way a Yoruba leader could have emerged in the manner it was planned, where there are no known personalities and elders of the region. On his part, a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Chief Olu Falae said: “As far as we are concerned in Yoruba Land, Pa Fasoranti remains the leader of the Yorubas. That position is not vacant. Fasoranti remains the Yoruba leader until he chooses to step down.” Speaking on behalf of the Pro National Conference Organisations (PRONACO), Olawale Okunniyi, explained that a decision was reached between 2005 and 2006 at a national conference, where it was agreed that whoever is the leader of the pan-Yoruba group, Afenifere, is the leader of the Yorubas. Okunniyi said Akintoye’s emergence was contrary to that agreement, which he said still, subsisted, adding that, “Our position is that our record still clearly shows the assertion of Yoruba delegation at the Peoples’ National Convention organised by PRONACO between 2005 and 2006 was that whoever is the leader of Afenifere is the undisputed leader of the Yorubas. “So, until a contrary memorandum signed by not less than 12 respected elders of the Yoruba nation is presented to the national secretariat of PRONACO, the resolution of the Yorubas at the PRONACO national convention subsists with us. However, we shall watch keenly how event unfolds in succeeding days to gauge the mood of the people and leaders of the Yoruba nation about this uncertain development,” he stated. Also speaking, national secretary of Afenifere, Sehinde Arogbofa said: “I don’t want to say that they are faceless but they are people who don’t have too much at stake in what we are doing. Akintoye is with us, if some people gathered in Ibadan, it is unfortunate. All we need is for all Yoruba to support Pa Fasoranti. There is no controversy about that. They should check history how leadership emerged from the time of Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Chief Adekunle Ajasin, Chief Abraham Adesanya and now Pa Reuben Fasoranti.