LAGOS – Despite aggressive media clean up and transparency drives from some of the biggest players in fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) space, some 60% of FMCG brands’ digital marketing spend is said to be wasted resulting in annual losses of close to $50bn for the industry. This is according to a study from the global consulting firm AlixPartners, which asked 1,110 decision-makers from FMCG companies across the UK, US, China, India and key European markets to rate their organisation’s digital proficiency, executives are seeing low ROI when it comes to online investment. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Based on their responses, the report extrapolated that of the $79bn spent globally by FMCG’s on digital marketing in 2018, including ads and trade spend like online coupons, a total of 60% or $47bn failed to deliver any noticeable return on investment. Breaking down the figures further, AlixPartners found that FMCG ad spends in 2018 was $242bn, of which pure-play digital ads on the likes of Facebook and Google accounted for $60bn. It stated that half of that digital ad spend reported by executives posted either a negative return or one that wasn’t even measured. Drawing on the survey responses from executives at food, heath, beauty and household brands, just $25bn of this was reported to have yielded a positive ROI. $27bn saw a negative return and ROI on the remaining $8bn wasn’t even measured, thus, underscoring a further issue consumer goods firms are grappling with in trying to extract value from their media spend. Over the past two years, consumer firms such as Unilever and Procter & Gamble have concentrated their efforts on bringing transparency to what the latter’s top marketer Marc Pritchard described as the ‘murky at best, fraudulent at worst’ digital ad supply chain. The figures from AlixPartners, however, indicate that consumer goods brands need to fine-tune their digital and media transformation strategies to draw out greater value from online investments. Progress is being made, though. Leaders in the survey who identified themselves as monitoring digital ROI said they were now 70% more efficient in driving positive returns versus those beginning their digital transformations.