Akure – Prof. Tunji Ibiyemi, Vice Chancellor of Achievers’ University, Owo, Ondo State, on Tuesday described as valueless most of the findings of scientific researches being carried out in the country. He observed that virtually all the findings being churned out by researchers were not problem solving. Handing down the verdict at a media conference to kick start a capacity workshop on Writing Quality Research Proposal organised by the institution for its members of staff in Owo, Ibiyemi lamented that greater percentage of research findings were not applicable to the series of challenges being faced by the nation. The professor explained that, “When most professors say they have research findings, they are just junks, not meaningful research work. Your work must solve a problem,” he said. According to him, no successful researcher can be poor or hidden. According to the erudite professor, researchers who knew their onions would always be relevant in their environment and could not have financial problems. “If you have a meaningful research work, government and organisations will be looking for you and you can’t be poor because we are in a knowledge economy and you will be the first beneficiary. “So, evidence of successful researcher is clear and nobody can rubbish him. “The more problems you have and you are able to proffer solutions and solve, the more you get promoted,” Ibiyemi said. The vice chancellor charged all Nigerian university authorities to include in their capacity building programmes training on how to conduct sound and valuable research. He emphasised that universities were meant to solve problems of their immediate environment, adding that Nigeria could one be rescued from the present socio-political and economic quagmire by research. Ibiyemi noted that the competency workshop would brush up the university staff and make them relevant to carry out quality research proposal findings so that they could compete favourably with their counterparts elsewhere. He added that beginning from 2019/2020 session, every student of the institution would have opportunity to earn a diploma certificate as an added advantage to their course of study. “Students will be allowed to access a maximum of two of these programmes: computer programming, computer studies, French Language, diploma in law, diploma in procurement process, theology and church history at the200 and 300 levels of study. “The programme is provided for students desirous of that extra value and is available on weekends so as not to interfere with regular programmes,” he explained.