A Norwegian man suspected of killing his stepsister and opening fire
at a mosque near Oslo this weekend was remanded in custody Monday,
suspected of murder and an act of terror, after appearing in court
beaten and bruised but smiling, according to Afp.com reports. The man, identified as 21-year old Philip Manshaus, appeared in the
Oslo court with two black eyes and scrapes and bruises on his face,
neck and hands, probably obtained when he was overpowered at the
mosque. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Police say he has “extreme right views” and “xenophobic positions”.
The Norway incident comes amid a rise in white supremacy attacks
around the world. Manshaus is formally suspected of murdering his 17-year-old
stepsister, and of a “terrorist act” at the Al-Noor mosque on
Saturday, allegations he has rejected. In Norway, being formally named as a suspect is a step prior to indictment. Manshaus entered the courtroom smiling to cameras, wearing dark
clothes and his hair cut short. He asked to be released, his lawyer Unni Fries said after the hearing. “He rejects the allegations and exercises his right to not explain
himself,” she said. The court said there were “reasonable grounds” to suspect Manshaus had
committed the criminal acts and remanded him in custody for four
weeks, as police had requested. During the first two, he will be kept in “complete isolation”. – ‘Pretty vague’ past tip – Manshaus is accused of entering the mosque in the affluent Oslo suburb
of Baerum armed with at least two weapons and opening fire before
being overpowered by a 65-year-old man who suffered minor injuries.
Just three worshippers were in the mosque at the time. Hours after the attack, the body of a young woman was found in a home
in Baerum and police on Sunday confirmed it was Manshaus’s 17-year-old
stepsister. According to local media, she was of Chinese origin and had been
adopted by the companion of Manshaus’s father. On Monday, Norway’s domestic intelligence service PST said it had
received a tip “about a year ago” about Manshaus, but that they chose
not to act on it. “The tip was pretty vague and was not indicative of any imminent
terrorism plot,” PST chief Hans Sverre Sjovold told reporters. PST, which said it receives a large number of similar tips, has not
raised the threat alert level in Norway from the current low level. – ‘Race war’ post – Shortly before the mosque attack, a person identifying himself as
Philip Manshaus had posted a message on the EndChan forum calling for
a “race war” to be taken from the internet into real life (“irl”). The author said he was selected by “saint tarrant”, an apparent
reference to the New Zealand mosque attack suspect Brenton Tarrant,
accused of killing 51 people in attacks on two mosques in Christchurch
in March. EndChan confirmed on Twitter that a man “claiming to be the Oslo
shooter” had posted material on the forum. The post ended with the words “Valhalla awaits,” a reference to the
afterlife for those who have died in battle in Norse mythology. The shooting follows a rise in white supremacist attacks, including
the recent El Paso massacre in the United States. The Oslo attack took place on the eve of the Islamic celebration of
Eid Al-Adha, marking the end of the Hajj pilgrimage, stoking fears
among Norway’s Muslims. In Norwegian media, neighbours and acquaintances have meanwhile
described the suspect as a previously happy and well-adjusted person
whose behaviour had changed during the past year. According to public broadcaster NRK, he reportedly became “very
religious” and adopted increasingly extreme rightwing views. Norway was the scene of one of the worst-ever attacks by a rightwing
extremist in July 2011, when Anders Behring Breivik, who said he
feared a “Muslim invasion”, killed 77 people in a truck bomb blast
near the government offices in Oslo and a shooting spree at a Labour
Party youth camp on the island of Utoya.