A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Kelly Otuedon, has eulogised the virtues of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, describing him as a distinct and detribalised leader. Otuedon who is also a staunch member of the newly established Warri, Uvwie and Environs Development Agency, insists that the Ika-born governor will attract more infrastructural development to the state and enjoined the people of the state to put the past behind them and chart the way forward. The politician, who spoke with our correspondent in Warri, assured that the entire ethnic group will be carried along as usual in order to fully benefit from the dividend of democracy. Excerpt: Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has swung into action by appointing persons of impeccable character into his administration. What is your take on this? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Yes, it is no more secret that the Governor is really working according to his promise of making Delta State, the Dubai of Africa. Above all, he has successfully carried out his electioneering campaign promises, especially in his first tenure and, I can assure you that Deltans have nothing to fear because the man will definitely improve on his past performance. He started with the appointment of commissioners, special advisers and others, do you think every area will benefit from the kind gesture? Obviously, the Governor started well and he is going to touch every part of the twenty-five local government areas of the state. May I remind you of the vast development he has been carrying out since he became the Governor? He is a known detribalised person who does not discriminate among the ethnic group. For instance, he has been able to create roads linking various riverine communities which people believed were very difficult terrains. Apart from these achievements, his peace effort is second to none. The Governor just set up a Development Agency, how is the body going to achieve a successful implementation of their assignment? Well, I thank God that the group is made up of persons of impeccable character and I can assure you that we are going to succeedWhat will be your comment on the political situation in the state, especially as it related to Uvwie Local Government Council where you hold sway? Everybody knows to a great extent that Delta is one of the most peaceful states in the country and Uvwie Local Government Council area is PDP and no other political party can penetrate the area. For instance, Uvwie Local Government voted massively for Governor Okowa and all subsequent contestants, so PDP is the only party in the area I can assure you. What are the expectations of the people of the state from the Governor this time around? I don’t know why you are asking me this question because both the blind and lame are feeling the handiwork of Governor Okowa. Without mincing words, you can see infrastructural development spread across the whole part of the state. I can reveal to you that Okowa won massively for the second term because of the good work he is doing. I challenge any doubting Thomas to point out the area the governor has not touched since he came on board? But are you aware that the factionalised APC in the state have come together and are battle ready to take over the governorship of the state from PDP in 2023. My response is simple and that is, we should wait till that period. However, when we get to the bridge we shall cross it. What is your impression about Okowa performance so far? Okowa has done a lot of things, ranging from empowerment in all strata ranging from roads rehabilitation and construction. Above all, the abundant peace we have been enjoying in the state since he came on board, in fact, Okowa has done a lot for the state. Without peace we can’t enjoy anything especially the rapid development of infrastructural facilities across the state. It is only in Delta state we have abundant peace across the country. Besides, we are enjoying a massive network of roads. Delta State has been transformed; network of roads, no community is left out. Youths have been empowered; hence we now witness less criminal activities. I must say that all the criminal activities being committed in Delta State are people from other states, Deltans are no criminals. Every good citizen in the state is now useful to themselves. In the educational sector, the primary education is free and I can tell you that a lot of persons have benefited from the bursary scheme across the state, it has helped a lot of people to achieve their aim and more Deltans now go to school. For instance, farmers have been encouraged a lot of times with all forms of facilities to farm and make Delta one of the most prosperous states in the field of agriculture; production of food stuffs have increased. In sport development, Delta is ahead of other states, taking into account the international matches taking place at the Stephen Keshi Stadium. Another area of concentration is the Asaba International Airport that has been upgraded to international standard.