General Buba Marwa (rtd), Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Drug Abuse (PACEDA), has assured Nigerians that President Muhammadu Buhari, would fully implement the report of the committee, when submitted. The former Lagos and Borno States Military Administrator maintained that Buhari “has the political will to deal the drug abuse scourge in Nigeria a crippling blow.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Buhari had inaugurated the committee in January with a call for collective action to check drug abuse to build new lives. Marwa, in an exclusive chat with Sunday Independent, said his committee had just completed its report and that members are waiting to submit their findings. There had been widespread allegations that the committee had submitted its report, but that it had been doctored and kept away from the President because it was damaging to some powerful interests in the country. He said: “You know, I have a reputation and name to protect. I will never be associated with any unsavoury deals and cover ups. We have actually just completed our report and are waiting to submit it. We are confident that it will be implemented because the President has the political will to deal the drug abuse scourge in Nigeria a crippling blow.” He explained that during the course of his assignment, “I led visits to several states (we had six sub committees each visiting states of a particular geopolitical zone) and in each state visited, I sat with all the personnel of the NDLEA (National Drug Law Enforcement Agency) of the state and had an open interaction and interface with them. “That is after I had visited their headquarters here in Abuja. PACEDA is fully seized of the state of affairs of NDLEA and it will be addressed. We had to think out of the box and when the report finally comes out you will all see. The drug abuse scourge will be successfully tackled by the grace of God.” Meanwhile, the NDLEA had agreed to organise make up examinations for its officers who have approval to travel for the 2019 holy pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. An Islamic human rights group, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), had labeled the NDLEA as an anti-Muslim organisation for fixing its 2019 promotion examinations for August 15, 16 and 17, 2019 for Group One and August 19, 20 and 21, 2019 for Group Two. According to MURIC, those dates had automatically made it impossible for NDLEA’s Muslim staff and who went on Hajj (pilgrimage) to take part in the promotion examination. The concern was raised in a statement signed by the group’s Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola. The NDLEA in an August 13, 2019 circular signed by Yohanna Sila Mshelia, Director, Administration and Finance, said the agency’s chairman had approved that all candidates who were unable to write the promotion examinations slated for August 15-21, 2019, should be given the opportunity to write a make-up examination at a date to be communicated. According to the circular, with reference number NDLEA/FIN/88/VOL.VII/227, “The following are the categories of personnel to sit for make-up examinations (a) Personnel granted permission/approval to travel for 2019 Hajj; (b) Personnel granted approval for official assignment; (c) Case of proven ill-health during the period of the 2019 promotion examination; and (d) Such other cases as may be considered by management.” The circular urged all Directors, Commanders, Commandant of the Academy and Head of Units to bring the contents to the notice of all personnel under them.