Abeokuta – The Ogun State Command of the Nigeria Customs Service is currently mired in bribery scandal as tomato traders whose farm produce and vehicles were recently seized by the service have accused officers of demanding bribes up to the sum of N200,000 to release the seized goods and vehicles. One of the victims, a public transporter who had his vehicle impounded alongside the seized tomatoes, Olanrewaju Olasupo, alleged that he had to pay N200,000 before his vehicle was released. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The victim also accused officers of the command of collecting N50,000 each from some traders before releasing their tomatoes while others allegedly paid N500 for each bag of pepper before they were released to the owners. The traders were arrested on Sunday in Ijoun area of Yewa North Local Government Area on their way to the market. The traders, who protested on Monday in Abeokuta, accused the command of auctioning their baskets of tomatoes worth N200,000 for N20,000. But the case took another dimension when Olasupo, while speaking with newsmen in Abeokuta, on Wednesday, said he had to bribe one officer he identified simply as Akin in the Abeokuta command to the tune of N200,000 before his vehicle was released. Narrating his ordeal, Olasupo, who said the traders were his clients who had been hiring his vehicles for such a business for long, said the trip was one of the several he had undertaken with the farmers. He said they had been to Onitsha in Anambra State, Kaduna in the North, among other places, where they transport farm produce to the market without Customs’ trouble. He further explained that the last controversial trip was made about 8p.m before their goods and vehicle were seized by the Customs. According to him, trouble started after their vehicles left the farms around Ijoun to collect the farm produce, got to a third checkpoint and were stopped by men of the NCS who demanded to know the contents of the bags and the baskets. According to him, the officers went ahead to impound the vehicle and its contents even after the disclosures. He said: “When we explained to them, they insisted and collected N200,000 from me after all the argument on Tuesday. “They seized my vehicle because I used the vehicle to convey pepper. “They did not tell us what the money was meant for; they only said that they will collect N500,000 before they can release my vehicle. But I begged them till they insisted on N200,000. “It was the goods they released first. They collected N500 per bag of pepper and the money they collected from the woman who hired my vehicle was N23,000 for 43 bags. “The remaining people that have baskets of pepper also paid N500. For my vehicle, they collected N200,000. They said that my offence was because I loaded pepper from the border.” When asked whether he collected a receipt for the payment, Olasupo said: “I was not given a receipt for the N200,000 I paid. I gave the money in cash. I can still recognise the officer I gave the money to. “His name is Mr. Akin and I still have his telephone number on my phone.” The transporter added, “He took us to his boss, but he was the one I gave the money to. He did not issue any receipt. “I gave them the N200,000 because they did not want to release my vehicle and the way they were using their truck to drag vehicles, I could not near it.” Olasupo has however insisted on retrieving his money back from the officer, saying the money he paid was his monthly allowance. He also said he wanted to be paid the damages he incurred as a result of not being allowed to work for three days after his commercial vehicle was impounded. When contacted, the spokesman of the Joint Border Security Exercise, who is also National PRO, Nigerian Customs Service, John Attah, denied the allegation. Attah, in his reaction, said the driver might have fallen into the wrong hands, assuring that no officer of the NCS would collect a bribe and still give his phone number. He said: “All the vehicles that were brought to the Customs house are still there. We don’t even know the vehicle you are talking about. “The vehicles with tomatoes are still there as at yesterday evening and they had a meeting with the farmers and even with the traditional rulers and they have resolved their issues. I don’t know which one you are talking about?” He, however, confirmed that some tomatoes were auctioned, saying the receipts were sent to him.