UYO – The government of Akwa Ibom State has decried the slow pace of work on the demarcation process of its boundary with Cross River State. The Deputy Governor, Mr. Moses Ekpo who stated this in a welcome address to the joint meeting of the National Boundary Commission held in Uyo on Wednesday, stressed that the undue delay by the federal authorities in carrying out the demarcation, exercise has only fuelled inter-border carnage leading to wanton loss of lives. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Apart from demarcating the boundary to promote peace and development by the two sister states, Mr. Ekpo urged the federal government to go beyond rhetoric and embark on visible development of the area by establishing a viable fishing industry and a military base in the border area. These he said would create a functional buffer for the demarcated area, as well as promote the traditional fishing trade of the people while enhancing security at the border communities. The Deputy Governor further used the occasion to reiterate the need for the federal government to expedite action on the construction of the Calabar – Itu Highway, a project he said had been purportedly mobilized without any execution, saying that the poor state of the road has hindered both commerce and regional integration His Cross River counterpart, Prof. Ivara Esu in his address bemoaned the poor state of the highway and also noted that the delay in the execution of the demarcation, exercise had adversely affected the bond of relationship that had hitherto existed between the two states even as insecurity has been heightened in the area owing to mutual distrust. He, therefore, urged the National Boundary Commission and the office of the Surveyor-General of the Federation to do everything possible to end the crises. In a joint communiqué signed by the two deputy governors and the Acting Director-General of the National Boundary Commission, Surveyor Adamu Adaji at the end of the meeting, the field exercise for the formal demarcation of the troubled border shall commence from November 11 to December 10 this year after a Technical Committee meeting by the Surveyors General of the two states.