MINNA – Former Speaker Niger State House of Assembly (NSH), Hon. Ahmed Marafa Guni has encouraged civil servants to be actively involved in politics to bring about respect and upholding the sanctity of civil service for the overall development of the state and Nigeria in general. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The former Speaker made the declaration during the official disengagement of the Director of ICT, Planning, Research and Statistics (PRS), Niger State Ministry of Information and Strategy, Alhaji Musa Tanko Ladan Badeggi who has attained the mandatory retirement age of 60. Marafa said he was frustrated by what was going on in the ministries as virtually nothing was moving in the civil service, no one was ready to make needed sacrifices to change the narratives in favour civil service and civil servants in general to improve their welfare and working conditions. “I was a staff of this same ministry and retired after putting in 28 years in service out of frustrations to join politics due to what was going on in the civil service. Many of my subordinates, including Permanent Secretaries were without even a bicycle and I began to ask, what hope is there for people like me? The former Speaker expressed regrets that Ladan was not promoted to Permanent Secretary before retirement, noting that the level of decay and frustrations in civil service is so appalling to the extent that hard work is no longer rewarded as procedures to encourage dedication to duty are now mere formalities. “It is indeed sad that an event of this magnitude is taking place in a borrowed conference hall instead of the Ministry of Information and Strategy which is the livewire of government, but I am assuring you, today marks the beginning of expected change in this ministry”. Marafa pointed out that, “Musa Ladan is humble, morally sound, committed to duties and some of these qualities endeared him to many of his principals. This is why people like us are here to celebrate him and would recommend him for higher responsibilities”. Promising to lobby for the retired Director, the former Speaker said, “I have seen people in Grade Level 12 or put in less than 20 years in service occupying Permanent Secretary’s seat. We pray that God touch the heart of the Governor to consider Musa Ladan for same position as reward for meritorious service to Niger state”. The former Speaker who used the occasion to apologize to those he may have offended on the course of discharging his duties as Speaker encouraged more civil servants to join politics and, ‘if you are lucky like me to be in the legislature be rest assured you will join forces in bringing about creating of new narratives that would bring about improved welfare package for workers’.