Abuja – The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) yesterday urged the federal government to declare a state of emergency on education. The National Executive Council (NEC) of NYCN stated this to mark this year’s International Youth Day (IYD). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network NYCN under the leadership of its President, Ambassador Sukubo Sara – Igbe Sukubo, in a statement by its Public Relations Officers, Olugbode Damola Hammed, also demanded adequate security for all. IYD, which is celebrated every 12th of August, is set aside as an awareness day by the United Nations to draw attention to a given set of cultural and legal issues surrounding youth. The theme of 2019 IYD is “Transforming Education”. NYCN explained that this year’s theme emphasized the significance of prioritizing education across the globe, highlighting the importance of accessible education to the Youth, ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promotes lifelong learning opportunities for all. The group also expressed concern over the “worrisome” state of the education sector, the safety of the Nigerian youths and urged President Muhammadu Buhari led administration to be proactive in solving these problems. The group said: “In spite of global consciousness of the significance of education as a passport to the future, statistics still show a high rate of out of school in Nigeria, about 10.5 million of the country age 5-14 are out of school, with the high rate of school drop out at the secondary and tertiary level. 2019 budget accommodates less than 8% for education against the advocate of UNESCO 26%, proving the low prioritization of education in Nigeria. “Transforming education in Nigeria is long overdue; therefore we on this day call on the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in the education sector, the state of education in Nigeria is worrisome, ranging from infrastructure to curriculum, security to welfare, accessibility to affordability, and bridging the gap between the industry and our institution. A more need to invest in technical education and Entrepreneurial skills, it added. On the security situation, the apex youth body added that “we on this occasion condemn the security status of Nigeria as a whole. The fear of insecurity is on the rise for terrorism is becoming more lucrative, Herdsmen, Kidnapping and Cultism constantly makes the news. We appeal to Mr. President to do more in securing the lives of Nigerians, which happens to the paramount of his mandate, with cognizance of emerging terrorist groups.”