Paul Hollywood allegedly hasn’t seen his teenage son in two years amid a bitter feud over his romance with Summer Monteys-Fullam. The baking guru, 53, is said to have fallen out with Joshua, 17, after ending his marriage to the teen’s mum Alexandra to romance Summer, 24. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Mail On Sunday reports the teenager is estranged from his dad, and has been ignoring his messages and presents for the last two years. A representative for Alexandra told the publication: “Paul hasn’t seen his son since November 2017 and the split has been deeply distressing to him. “Paul is aware of his son’s feelings on the matter… “Josh has behaved admirably over the past two years…” Hollywood and Alexandra married in 1998 but they split in 2013 after the star’s affair with his telly co-star Marcela Valladolid, who co-hosted his show The American Baking Competition. They later reconciled, but Hollywood later fell for Summer after meeting her in a pub near the family home in Kent. The marriage then ended and the telly star moved on with his new younger lover. However, the romance came to an end this week, and the split has turned nasty with Summer even threatening to sue her ex. She’s particularly upset by his claims that she courted publicity during the romance. Releasing a statement on Instagram , she said: “I am very disappointed and distressed by false and highly defamatory statements that Paul has made about me online since our breakup. “I have had no alternative but to instruct my solicitors Brett Wilson LLP to pursue legal proceedings against Paul in order to obtain vindication. “I have never courted publicity over my relationship with Paul and I am deeply disappointed that the relationship has ended in this way. I have no further comment on the matter and ask that my and my family’s privacy be respcted.” The former barmaid’s relationship with Paul took a sour turn after he accused her of selling stories to the press and going hunting for fame. His anger was allegedly triggered by news of an NDA making it to the papers. He said in an unusually-candid social media post: “Morning all, thank you for your messages I’ve been receiving it means a lot. “My silence on any matters is not a sign of weakness or agreement of what’s been said, merely I prefer a quiet life away from my day job!