IBADAN – For the second time, some aggrieved Muslim parents whose daughters were banned by the authorities of the University of Ibadan International School Ibadan (UI ISI) from using Hijab on their school uniform, have dragged the institution to court. The Muslim parents of UI ISI female students again returned to court, seeking the enforcement of their wards fundamental human rights, as regards the use of Hijab in line with their religious belief. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The school has been battling with the Hijab controversy since November 2018 when some parents, under the banner of UI-ISI Muslim Parents’ Forum, petitioned the institution’s management. The Muslim Parents’ Forum had written petitions to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) of the University of Ibadan who doubled as Chairman of the board of Governors of the school, the school principal, Mrs Phebean Olowe and school over the denial of the female Muslim students in the school to wear Hijab. The Muslim parents also went ahead to institute a case for the enforcement of fundamental human rights on behalf of their wards before Justice Ladiran Akintola of the Oyo State High Court 9, sitting in Ibadan. But Justice Akintola, in his ruling on Tuesday, June 25, 2019, struck out the fundamental human rights suit on the ground that relevant sections of the constitution stipulate that cases on the enforcement of fundamental human rights should be filed individually and not collectively as done by the parents. However, Alhaji Abdurahman Balogun, Chairman of the Muslim Parents’ Forum, on Sunday told journalists that the aggrieved parents had complied with the court directive to file the cases individually. Balogun said, “We are back in Court. This is to inform you that entire sequel to Court directive to file the matter individually as regards Fundamental Human Rights, we had since complied and new cases assigned as follows. “Fareedah Moshood vs UI is on Monday 19 Aug 2019 at High Court main premises Ring Road before a vacation judge; Hamdallah Olosunde vs UI is coming on 20-8-19 before court 17 Iyaganku; Iman Akinoso vs UI is coming on 20- 8-19 before court 17 Iyaganku, and Raheemah Akinlusi vs UI is coming on 21-8-19 before court 17 Iyaganku. “Others are Ikhlas Badru vs UI is coming on 21-8-19 before court 17 Iyaganku; Mahmudah Babarinde vs UI is on 27 Aug 2019 at high court main premises ring road before a vacation judge; Aakifah Dokpesi vs UI is on 27 Aug 2019 at High Court main premises Ring Road before a vacation judge; and Aaliyah Dokpesi vs UI is on 27 Aug 2019 at High Court main premises Ring Road before a vacation judge”.