Charles Aniagwu is the Delta State Commissioner for Information. In this interview with FELIX IGBEKOYI, the broadcast journalist and former Chief Press Secretary to the Delta State governor discussed Delta State at 28 and the journey so far. Excerpts: Delta State at 28, what is your general assessment of the progress the state has made so far? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I can tell you that the number of areas we have depending on what you are looking at. Of course individuals often time make the mistake of benchmarking development against the backdrop of improvement in infrastructure, that is not a bad idea, but development is not all about infrastructure. The mind of the people, the harmony that exists amongst the people, the love among the people and other improvements generally and other milestones that you may have recorded in the course such development period that you are taking a look at, and in this case, the last 28 years. Before the creation of Delta out of the old Bendel State, you do realise that the people of the province known as Delta in the then Bendel State, really agitated for a separate state and the reason for that is that they believed that with such state, they will be able fast track development and then get government closer to the people. And the question is, have we been able to get government closer to the people? Yes to a very large extent we have, have we been able to also register a number of milestones in a number of areas? Yes we have! We may not have gotten to where we desire to be, that takes a long time so it’s work in progress. Infrastructure wise, in the last four years, the administration of Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa has tried as much as possible to up the ante, to raise the bar, that does not mean that those who have had course to hold sway before then did not make as much impact, they did to try as much to elevate particularly the state capital from being a glorious local government headquarters to becoming indeed a state headquarter that do befits a state that is oil rich and also very fertile arable land. But beyond that, our greatest resource is in our human capital and that we have also been able to harness to a very large extent. On the economy of the State vis-a-vis industrialisation and unemployment, how has the state fared? We have made appreciable progress because when you make progress, it means moving from point one to possibly point two. At inception, there were a number of things that didn’t exist that now exist today. At inception, look at the number of roads that we have, the number of dual carriage roads that we have, the number of improved modern markets that we have and a number of other things we had at that time, today l can say that we have made progress. But when you mean pin it to the desires and indeed the expectations of the people vis-a-vis the enormous resources that have accrued to the state over time in the last 28 years, you may want to say that it is not appreciable enough commensurate to with what the people expected to happen. When you don’t have jobs that is commensurate to the growth in population to the extent that growth in population is in geometric progression and then job creation tend to be crawling at arithmetic progression, indeed you do agree with me that progression need to be matched for you to make appreciable progress. Water is an essential commodity for humanity, how will you assess the growth of Delta State with the provision of potable water for the populace? You will recall that I said in the course of my remarks at the beginning of this interview that there are a number of areas that we need to also make some level of improvement. We have been able to provide water but not to the extent that we desire to. Today we have been able to ensure that a number of our schools where our children go to study have potable water by ensuring that they have overhead tanks and then boreholes that are made possible by not restricted to electricity generation, so you have solar panels to ensure that the water runs 24 hours. We have also been able to take steps at improving the water supply in our major cities. Of course you know provision of water is also going to compete along side other infrastructure, roads, hospitals, schools, and then given the available resources, you just have to think about how to prioritise. I am happy that in the last four years, appreciable milestones have been recorded in that regard. Water works is one thing and one area where we have tried to take a lot of steps, for instance, If you go to a place like Bomadi, you will see that we were able to revive the moribund water scheme to the extent that the people can afford to have access to portable water. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa today is know as the “Road Master” by the number roads done, however, some people have come to criticise the quality of some of these roads. What do you have say in this regard? When it comes to the issues of standards, we have paid serious attention to standard but it is always better when we pin it down to specifics so that if you are talking about a particular road, I will be able to tell you what the situation is on that road. But what I know that has happened is that the Governor has always insisted that any contractor that decides not to give us the quality as spelt out in the Bill of Quantity is not just only going to be blacklisted but we will also take every step to recover the money that belongs to the state because we are very much desirous of getting value for our money. You must also know that you don’t just build a road and walk away. There is a also period that you are supposed to take charge that if anything happens to that road, it becomes the responsibility of the contractor to sort out that particular problem, so that a road was commissioned today and then the next day you see one fault or the other either by way of pothole somewhere or one fault somewhere does not mean that automatically the burden now goes back to the state. What do you have to say over complaints about time frames for road construction especially on Okpanam road? First you alluded to the fact that we have successfully attended to a number of roads. Let me tell you frankly that in a tenure of four years, you have only four dry seasons to work on roads. Building roads is not like building houses, when you are building a house, even during the rain, you can continue and then when you talk about roads that have high traffic counts and heavy duty vehicles, it doesn’t take the same technology like when you are building a road like a street where you are not expecting large tonnage vehicles and so the technology in terms of you focusing on whether you are doing soil replacement, the thickness of the laterite, the thickness of the stone base and then before you talk about the bitumen, they are entirely different thing. Development in the Okpanam axis is moving at a very fast pace such that those other roads that feed the Okpanam road will be bringing in large volume of water and if you don’t expand the drainage you are going to have problem, so what we did first was to say, let us carry out some remedial action that will still make it possible for people to commute along that corridor but it was important for us to address the issue of the drainage, which is why for a very long time, we paid special attention to the drainage, we had to even excavate the ones that were already done. What is the government doing on waste disposal? What we have done is to engage the services of private sector operators and they were to work in collaboration with our brothers at the local government level and of course not also forgetting the role played by the Waste Management Board. What we have seen over time is that our people need to understand that having to take the refuse from your house in the middle of the night, then you decide to go and drop it in the middle of the road where possibly nobody will see you at that time of the day, does not help anybody. It’s just a little token that individuals are paying depending on the area you are staying because it’s graded, some pay as low as N500 and some pay as much as N2000 a month for these refuse to be collected. Even Government went to the extent of having to distribute waste bins, so that at the end of the day, these private sector operators will now come and evacuate the waste. The major challenge is that our people need to begin to understand that having to dispose your refuse in a drain or gutter as it is popularly called, is not healthy for anybody because you think you can do that at the dead of the night or whenever the rain is falling, you don’t need to have that kind of attitude. We have taken steps to curb this. Not too long ago, there was a tripartite meeting where some of these issues were dealt with and we don’t want to progress to the level where we just come out and start arresting people. These are people who already have been dealt with by the economic situation in the country, but we may progress to that level by the time we increase our level of sensitisation. The Bureau of Orientation has also been saddled with this responsibility of taking the message to our people, to let them understand that waste management also requires the input of our brothers and sisters beyond the activities of government because these wastes are generated by these individuals and these individuals must play a certain role in the effective and efficient disposal of these refuse. Even when they are not enabled enough in terms of payment of certain token, the idea of having to drop it in public places particularly having to even dispose it right into the drain is something that is not going to be tolerated at all because when you do so, you make the management of the flood within the capital city much more expensive and much more difficult which is why a number of times you see also excavating and desilting the drains each time you get to the manholes. What is the government doing to revive the Asaba Textile Mill and other industries that are moribund? On the Issue of the Asaba Textile Mill, at the time when a number of industries were more like becoming moribund and we think like we are not getting the benefit of such industry, the Government then took a decision to privatise but along the line that privatisation process ran into stormy water, that privatisation process did not lead us anywhere and when you have started a process, you need to be able to clean it through so that you don’t incur the wrath of those persons who may have come to have a legal battle. We are trying to clean up that process because that is what is holding us back, you cannot say its 100 percent that of the State neither will you say is 100 percent that of the private sector, so there are lots of things we have cleaned up in respect to that of Asaba Textile Mill. We are hopeful that when we clean it up fully, it will be able to bounce back to life and when it does, it will be able to create jobs for a lot of persons because at the time it was operational, it was about the 4th largest in the country and we just do hope that, that is put behind us. What is the state doing about payment of pensions? In the area of pension, a lot of progress has been made. As at March this year, we have taken from level 1 to level 7 up to 2017 and from level 8 to 17 we have gotten to as much as 2015. You know what happen before we came in, because of our migration from the old pension scheme to the new, more digital and much more friendly scheme where you now have a contributory system, it led to a lot of accruals by way of payment for past services for those who have been in the system but were not contributing because they belong to the old pension, scheme that led to several billions of naira now have to be paid. Unfortunately government did not before now take step to address them but when we came in, we started gradually, of course they knew we came in at a time when we were having issues with the amount of resources that was coming into the State but today more than a billion Naira is usually paid to deal with the issues of pension monthly and so we are graduating and moving gradually. We appeal to our people to bear with us. The issue of certificates, yes it is true, you need to have a certificate otherwise someone will just wake up and claim the money that you have made because the administrator may not know the person by face, every body must go through that process. The pension administrator may not even know you by face so that somebody else cannot just go and claim what belongs to you, you just need to go through that process and we just hope that the process is very smooth so that it won’t put another burden on our people.