Abuja – Godwin Emefiele, governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has allayed the fears of investors across the globe over a British Commercial High Court’s ruling in London on Friday that gave Process and Industrial Development Limited (P&ID) leave to seize Nigeria’s assets worth $9 billion. He assured that Nigeria had sufficient and strong grounds to file a stay of execution and appeal. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The court, presided over by Justice Butcher, gave this leave in a ruling in favour of the claimant company P&ID over a dispute arising from a 2010 deal entered into between P&ID and Nigeria. By its initial statement of case in arbitration proceeding served on June 28, 2013, P&ID claimed that the Federal Government was in repudiatory breach of the said deal. It, therefore, claimed damages quantified at $5,960,226,233 plus interest as compensation for its loss in respect to the agreement. On January 31, 2017 an Arbitral Tribunal sitting in London issued its final award, stating, “The net present value of the profits which would have been earned was assessed by the majority as being $6,597,000,000. This is the measure of damages. It is the present value of income which would have been earned over a long period. “The FRN was also ordered to pay interest on the sum of $6,597,000,000 at 7% per annum from March 20, 2013 until the date of the final award and at the same rate thereafter until payment.” Speaking on Monday when he spoke to State House correspondents on the sideline of a presidential retreat for ministers-designate at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Emefiele maintained that the Federal Government would follow through and aggressively to ensure that the execution of that judgment is stayed and that the appeal succeeds at every level both within Nigeria and abroad. “It is important for me to use this opportunity to assure our friends, local and foreign investors, who called to express solidarity with us, not to express concern but to say that there is no need for anybody to worry,” he said. Emefiele explained that there were certain anomalies in the process leading to the award of the contract which was being looked into by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He said: “I am not scared at all and I think it is also important that this question has come up. “Since the news about the judgment broke out late on Friday, we have been discussing with our counsel, and they have advised that there are sufficient and strong grounds on the basis of which we could file a stay of execution and also an appeal against that judgment. “We know that the implication of that judgment has some impact on monetary policy and that is why the CBN is going to step forward, and very strongly too, to ensure that we defend the country and defend the reserves of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Commenting on the recent directive by President Muhammadu Buhari that no cent of the nation’s forex should be used for food importation, the CBN governor said it had been a standing policy of the apex bank since 2016. “Mr. President’s comment on the issuing of forex to people who import food items into the country is in the logic of CBN’s management of foreign exchange policies that we started since 2016. “If you recall, we started with about 41 items (food and non-food items), because we believe that those items can be produced in the country. “As we stand today, there are about 43 items on that list and I will say substantially most of them are food items. “We are basically saying, if we have a food item that can be produced in the country, why should we waste scarce foreign exchange importing those items into the country when they can be produced in the country?” He also described the attempt to misrepresent the comments of the president as very unfair and unfortunate. According to him, the move by the president was to strengthen the position of the CBN, “to say that he believes in what the CBN has been doing since 2016, and there is need for us to reinforce that going forward”. He added: “I will say that to be honest, we would aggressively go more into the list of items that are being imported into the country, items that can be produced in Nigeria. “I will like to stress that we would ensure that more of these items will get on the list of items that are going to be restricted from accessing foreign exchange in Nigerian banking industry not just from the CBN source. “Because, I have heard some comments that maybe it’s about the CBN’s source, it is not the CBN’s source. We are saying you will not be able to access foreign exchange from the Nigerian banking industry because it is important for us to produce these items in Nigeria and we will follow through on them.” The CBN governor maintained that there would not be an amendment to the forex restriction policy for some items. “There will never be an amendment because the issue is this, why should we be exporting jobs to other countries? “Today we are complaining that there is a high rate of unemployment leading to some extent the level of insecurity in the country, why should we allow people to import food that can be produced in the country?” He emphasised that Nigeria needed to improve wealth in her rural communities. “We will not change course, we will even be more aggressive on this programme,” he said. On whether the president’s directive would affect the Africa Continental Free Trade Area Agreement, Emefiele said it was not likely that it would impact it negatively. He said: “In any case, the AfCFTA is an agreement that is ongoing; the terms of engagement are still being discussed and negotiated. “The important thing is that Nigeria needs to stand as the largest economy in Africa and the largest populated country in Africa; we need to stand and dictate the terms under which we want to be in it, and this is what we are staying. “But what I am saying is that it is wrong, it is inappropriate that an item that can be produced in Nigeria should be imported into Nigeria. “When we get into the AfCFTA issues, we will also look at the details of it, but at this time we are saying we need to create jobs for our country, for the youths, and we need to create jobs, we yearn for growth and the only way we can really accelerate growth in Nigeria between now and the next four years is to see to it that items that can be produced in Nigeria are indeed produced in Nigeria rather than imported into the country.”