The ban by the Federal Government on imported food items coupled with the closure of surrounding borders to avoid their smuggling into the Nigerian market, has not only continued to affect their prices adversely, especially that of imported rice, a major staple food in Nigeria, but has made the commodity to soar beyond the reach of the common folks due to inadequate supply. The situation has seen some of the rice merchants abandoning the business owing to the huge amount of money involved in the procurements as well as the risk involved in bringing the commodity into the Nigerian market. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The tight security measures put in place to prohibit smuggling of imported rice into the Nigerian Market, has not affected patronage as consumers penchant for anything imported has not waned despite the ban. A higher percentage of them was of the people preferred the imported polished rice to the local one in terms of the price and the process of cooking. The local rice, according to traders, despite being planted and packaged in Nigeria, appeared to be also expensive of which many of the traders blamed on the cost of processing, unavailability and logistics constraints. In spite of the slight reduction in prices of the commodity particularly when compared with what they were earlier sold, many of the consumers opined that prices of imported rice remained unfavorable as only few of them could afford to buy in bags or large quantities. During the week findings from a market survey across some states by the Business and Market Intelligence Unit of SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, indicated that prices of imported rice have either remained stable, unfavourably or fell marginally by 5 per cent from what they were initially sold as at August 8, 2019. Unavailability and poor supply were reasons predominantly mentioned for the unpleasant prices. Visits to Ogbeogologo and Igbudu markets, Delta State, showed that prices of a 50kg bag of imported rice were still at an upward trend despite the slight reduction, currently going for between N18,000 and N18,500 as against N19,000 sold before. But this depends on the bargaining power of the buyer and quality of the brand. Mr. Emeni Azu, who trades in the commodity at the Ogbeogologo Market, Asaba, said prices of imported rice would remain high due to fluctuations in the foreign exchange rate and high cost of transportation. He, however, said that the state of the economy had also not encouraged increased patronage due to lack of money. For that of Ose Market, Onitsha, prices of a 50kg bag of imported rice sold for between N17,500 and N18,500  initially remained unchanged. Many of the traders in a chat with our correspondent linked the situation to scarcity. At the Itam Market, Uyo, the trend was not different, especially with the prices of a 50kg bag of imported rice current selling for between N16,500 and N17,000 down from N17,500 sold earlier. Mr. Sam Ekpo, who retails the commodity at the Itam Market, Uyo, blamed the situation on high cost of transportation and shortfall in supply. The price trend of that of  the  Northern region  seemed  not to be at variance with that  of  South, still on the high side, particularly with the prices of a 50kg bag of imported rice, currently attracting between N14,500 and N15,500  up from  between N14,000 and N15,000 it initially went for. For Achau Market, Kaduna, prices of a 50kg bag of imported rice previously sold for N15,500 fell to between N14,000 and N14,500,a situation which many of the traders connected to low demand and preference of their local delicacy. Visit to Lafenwa Market, Ogun State, revealed that despite the slight drop in the prices of the commodity, most of the traders complained of poor sales, stressing that  most of their customers procured  the commodity in smaller  quantities due to lack of purchasing power.  For, example, a 50kg bag of imported rice that was previously sold for between N15,000 and N15,500 declined to N14,500. Likewise, that of King’s Market, Ado-Ekiti, currently ranging from N14,000 to N14,500 from N15,000 previously sold. For that of Bodija Market, Ibadan, the situation was similar as prices of a 50kg bag of imported rice currently go for between N13,500 and N14,500 against N15,000 previously sold. This, however, depends on the haggling power of the customer and quality of the brand. A lady who came to shop for food items but simply identified  as Lizzy, said that despite the drop, prices of the commodity, regardless of the quality and brand remained high and unaffordable, especially for the common folks. She, however, appealed to the government at all levels to put more efforts on agriculture, engage more farmers in the production of local rice that would match that of international standard at a reduced price to encourage patronage. In Lagos, visits to popular markets such as Mile 12, Daleko and Agege ,showed that a 50kg bag of imported rice witnessed a marginal drop in all the markets visited. For instance, prices of a 50kg bag of the commodity which previously went for between N14,500 and N16,500 depending on the markets, fell within the region of N13,500 and N16,000 in the week under review. Many of the traders at Daleko Market, Lagos, attributed the situation to low demand and lack of money.