Impressed by the standard and discipline displayed by players, sponsor of the maiden Mainland Tennis Club (MTC) President’s Cup tournament, Mr. Tochukwu Okeke has pledged to boost the profile of the event from next year. The tournament was sponsored by Okeke in conjunction with Tocks Nigeria Limited, producers and marketers of electrical appliances. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to Okeke who was speaking at the closing ceremony of the tournament at the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos, the tournament has come to stay and will be a regular event in the calendar of the Club. “The President’s Cup has come to stay from this edition. This inaugural edition was experimental and I am really impressed by the standard displayed by the players and their level of discipline”, said Okeke. Okeke who is the current president of the MTC said his love and passion for the game drives him to continue to do his best for the sport and promised to go beyond the sponsorship of the President’s Cup. “As I said, the tournament has come to stay and God’s willing, I intend to do more with this sponsorship as long as I continue to have the passion for the sport of tennis. “It is going to be a yearly tournament in order to keep the members of the MTC physically fit and in top shape all the time”, said Okeke, who is also the Managing Director of Tocks Nigeria Limited. At the just concluded maiden edition of the President’s Cup, Chike Ibe and Barr. Corley Acholonu emerged as winners in the men’s singles and veterans categories. In the final encounter of the three weeks tournament, Ibe defeated Ifeanyi Edward 6-2, 6-4 to win the men’s singles trophy while Barr. Acholonu defeated Dr. Festus Oshoba 6-4, 6-4 in the veterans final. At the end of the tournament, prizes of different types of Binatone products such as smoother gliding dry Irons; blender with grinder BLG 450 as well as glass top gas cookers were presented to the winners and losers. Commenting on the tournament, MTC captain, Destiny Da-Silva, thanked the sponsor for providing an opportunity for members of the club to exhibit their talents in order to keep fit. The MTC captain disclosed that 32 members of the club took part in the single’s event while 16 members participated in the veteran’s event. “The tournament was a huge success and a welcome development for members of the club as it will go a long way to keep the members fit. “On behalf of all the members of the club, I say a big thank you to the sponsor, Mr. Tochukwu Okeke. God will reward him for what he has done and doing for our game. “This is not his first time in sponsoring tournaments in the club and it is our prayer that he will continue to contribute his quota to not only the development of the game in the club but in the country in general”, said the MTC captain. He therefore appealed to Nigerians to emulate Mr. Okeke and support the game of tennis in the country. It would be recalled as Vice President of the MTC, Okeke had sponsored the Wheelchair tennis tournament for the physically challenged, where prizes in various forms were presented to winners at the end of the tournament.