OKECHUKWU UKEGBU ABA – Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has described soldiers’ occupation of the streets to contain internal security challenges as a misnomer. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network This was as the governor commended the Commander, 14 Brigade, Ohafia, and the GOC, 82 Division, Enugu, for their interventions in the recent killing of Chimaobi Nwaogu by a soldier in Abia State. According to Ikpeazu, soldiers were trained to relate with the civil police, stressing that what necessitated the deployment of soldiers to contain internal insecurity was that the police were overwhelmed by security challenges. “It is a misnomer for soldiers to be on the streets. They are not trained to be on the streets and relate with the civil populace. That is the job of the police. Soldiers are on our streets because of our security challenges, which appear to have overwhelmed our police. The soldiers are also here for our own good. “But, our people must understand that soldiers are trained to kill. All over the world, nations maintain armies as killing machines. Soldiers make peace through war. Soldiers don’t have IPOs. They don’t take statements like the police. Therefore, our people must deal with soldiers with caution, and not fear. “Law abiding citizens have nothing to fear when you see a soldier. If there is need for communication with a soldier, please do so clearly and there won’t be any problem. We must avoid needless confrontations with soldiers. “The Army Command has assured me that there won’t be a repeat of that incident, but our people must tread with caution when dealing with a soldier,” the governor emphasised. On the security situation in the state, the governor said that violent crimes like armed robbery and kidnapping had been reduced to their lowest levels across the state because an integrated approach was employed to combat crimes. “No part of the world is 100 percent of criminal activities. But, here in Abia, we can beat our chest that violent crimes like armed robbery and kidnapping have been reduced drastically. This didn’t just happen. They happened because of the approach we adopted. There hasn’t been one single incident of bank robbery in the state since we came into office,” he said.