Madinah – The government of Saudi Arabia has declared Saturday, August 10th as Arafat Day, the height of Hajj rites when pilgrims all over the world will converge on the Plain of Arafat for supplications. In a statement issued by
Jamiu Dosunmu, of the Public Affairs Unit of Lagos State Muslim Pilgrims Board, the Amir- ul Hajj, Lagos State, Dr. AbdulHakeem Abdul-Lateef made this known on Friday at the Lagos State House in Makkah. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, Ed-ul-Kabir will be on Sunday, 11th August, 2019, when Muslims all over the world will sacrifice Ram in accordance to the practice in Islam. He said: “Now that the date of Arafat has been declared and Friday, 9th August has been billed for movement of Lagos pilgrims to Muna, the Board management has designed scheduled prayers for the different local governments to supplicate for Allah’s protection for safe journey to and fro Muna as well as success on the exercise. “Salat Zuhr must be performed in Muna on Saturday by all pilgrims on this year’s Hajj”, he added. He however, appealed to pilgrims to attend the prayers in accordance to the dates allotted to their local governments in order to control crowd and create a better atmosphere for pilgrims during the lectures. “The purpose is to enlighten them on the expectations of Muna, Musdalifah, Arafat and Jamarat”, Abdul-Lateef added. He further stressed that the major Hajj rites fall within five days of Dhul Hijjah, and therefore, encouraged pilgrims to endeavour to follow the instructions of the Saudi Authority as a way of supporting them check-mate avoidable disaster. The Amir-ul Hajj also outlined some of the expectations of Muslims within the first ten days of the month of Hajj, saying that they include: fasting, reading the holy Quran; increasing in good deeds; engaging in all acts of Ibadah; give love to and be dutiful to parents; feeding of birds and cats with food and water. Others according to him are: “distribution of cold water to people working in the sun; visiting the sick, inmates, orphanage and old people’s homes; saying prayers at their specified times and listening to lectures; fasting all nine days, every fast is like 70years away from fire (hell), if not 9 days, fast at least on Arafat Day for those not performing Hajj. It wipes two years of sin”. Abdul-Lateef also stressed the need to give a lot of Sadaqat; staying away from unholy music and videos; doing dawah and guiding the non-Muslims to the righteous path are also rewarding during the month. He noted that on the day of Arafat, faithful should recite “Laa Ilaha Ilallahu Wahdahu Laa sharikalahul, Lahul Mulku, Wallahu hamdu wahuwa ala Kulishain qadeer”.