ENUGU – Youths under the aegis of Association of Awgu Community Youth Leaders, have expressed support for Governor Ifeanyi in his efforts to destroy hideouts of kidnappers in the area. The youths stated their position when they visited the notorious Umuogbei Ihe-Ogbaku tunnel, which was a hideout for kidnappers along Enugu-Port Harcourt expressway. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Addressing journalists at the scene, Ken Onyekaonwu, the President of the association, said they were fully in support of any effort to safeguard lives and property in the area. Onyekaonwu, who is also the state chairman of United Progressive Party (UPP), said they decided to visit  the scene,  following outrage after the Governor’s visit. He recalled that a priest was killed and a traditional ruler and his wife kidnapped in the area, which prompted the Governor to come in person, to assess the situation. Onyekaonwu said any effort by the Governor to ensure security of lives and property, would receive their support. He allayed fears of destruction of caves and other natural endowments of the people, saying the governor was mindful of the usefulness of such natural endowments in our environment. He said what they saw at the scene was a tunnel and not a cave, even as nobody could have imagined that criminals would hide under the tunnel. He urged their Awgu kinsmen to know they were the victims and desist from joining people living far away to undermine efforts by Governor Ugwuanyi to secure Awgu. “We appeal to Awgu youths not to join other people to create panic in our community. The Governor has assured that if there is a cave, he will not demolish it, but creates holes in it to have other access and make it inhabitable for criminals. “Nobody will kidnap Governor here because he has enough security. Nobody will kidnap Senator. We are the victims. Let us desist from disseminating information we are not sure of,” Onyekaonwu said. Also speaking, Ugonna Ibe, a former chairman of Awgu LGA, appealed to the people of the area to support the Governor. Lending their voice, youth leader of Agbogugu, Kennedy Igwe and Uchenna Okafor, appealed to Federal Government to complete Enugu Port-Harcourt expressway as kidnappers were taking advantage of the abandoned section to wreak havoc in Awgu.