ADO-EKITI – The appointment of the new headship of the Ekiti Council of Traditional Rulers by Governor Kayode Fayemi has elicited controversy, as majority of the monarchs kick against it, claiming that the new occupant and Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji  Alabi is unfit for the position. The aggrieved monarchs, otherwise known as the ‘Pelupelu’, are foremost in ranking and prestige in Ekiti tradition. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Pelupelu Obas have since approached the court to seek redress over the matter which they claimed was a flagrant disregard to Ekiti tradition. An originating summon filed by Dr. B.A.M. Ajibade (SAN) on August 7, 2019, and  deposed to by Ajero of Ajero, Oba Joseph Adewole, on behalf of 15 other Obas, is seeking  an interlocutory injunction restraining Fayemi from swearing in Alawe as the Chairman of the Council. The claimants are seeking the following declarations: whether the 1st defendant is empowered under Council of Traditional Rulers Law, Cap 15, Laws of Ekiti State 2012, to appoint the chairman of Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers on a bi-annual rotational basis from amongst only class of Obas constituted by Alademerindinlogun/Pelupelu Obas of Ekiti State. “We respectfully state that we would be creating a bad precedent to accept to sit under a chairmanship of Alawe, as it would amount to a disregard for the tradition on earth and a sin against our forefathers,” they said. The 16 most prominent monarchs called ‘Pelupelu  Obas’ described the action taken by Fayemi, picking someone outside the 16 Obas called ‘Alademerindinlogun’ to occupy the exalted seat, as a flagrant violation of the Ekiti State Chieftaincy Law. Oba Alabi, a retired diplomat was appointed by the governor following the expiration of the two- year term of the former occupant, the Oloye of Oye Ekiti, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju. While Alawe is from Ekiti South Senatorial District, Oba Ademolaju is from Ekiti North Senatorial District. While members of the public wait what would become of the raging feud between the two elephants in Ekiti, the governor formally inaugurated Alawe as the new council chair. Fayemi, in a usual glamorous ceremony attended by many traditional rulers excluding the aggrieved ones, urged traditional rulers to shun unhealthy rivalries but work in harmony to move the state forward. “I therefore use this opportunity to call on our royal fathers and elders to continue to help address anti-social behaviours in their domains. The most important ingredient of development in the state is peace and security and you all have an important role to play as the custodians of the culture and tradition of our people. As our Royal Fathers, you are to be at the forefront of the State’s campaign for peace and security. “It is important to restate that the traditional institution of kingship in our society, regardless of the advent of modernism remains a rallying point for the generality of our people. It has also been serving as one of the veritable vehicles for dissemination of our policies, programmes and mobilisation of the populace for same and it will continue to remain relevant to the government,” Fayemi said. While thanking the immediate past council under the chairmanship of the Oloye of Oye Ekiti, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju, for the commitment displayed while in the saddle, the governor reiterated his commitment to the welfare of traditional rulers within the limits of the resources available to government. The aggrieved Pelupelu Obas are: Ajero of Ijero, Alara of Aramoko, Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Ogoga of Ikere, Olomuo of Omuo, Attah of Ayede, Onitaji of Itaji, Oloye of Oye, Arinjale of Ise, Ologotun of Ogotun, Elemure of Emure, Alaaye of Efon, Owa Ooye of Okemesi and Olojudo of Ido Faboro, Elekole of Ikole, Onisan of Isan Ekiti. According to the history narrated by Ajero of Ijero, Oba Joseph Adewole in his deposition, the Obas who formed the council in 1887 after the Kiriji war fought between Ekiti and Ibadan warriors from 1877 to 1886 were 16. But following the secession of Akure and Obo Ayegunle Kingdoms in the present day Ondo and Kwara respectively from the council, Olomuo of Omuo, Elemure of Emure and Attah of Ayede, were absolved into the fold to return the number to the aboriginal status. This increased the number to 17. Despite the alteration in the numerical strength of the council then, the monarchs decided not to change the name Alademerindinlogun (16) because it has become a popular and respectable nomenclature across the length and breadth of Yorubaland. A number of factors could have been attributed to the latest friction between the governor and these custodians of Ekiti tradition. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT gathered that there were open hatred and sustained opposition to Fayemi’s governorship ambition during his first and second coming as governor of Ekiti by some of these aggrieved monarchs. Reports also had it that these monarchs did not only campaign against Fayemi during the two elections, they also vowed to deal with their subjects who allegedly supported the All Progressives Congress (APC). But Fayemi, though aware of the various plots against him, however, decided to embrace all and punish no one for the alleged sin. It is on the record that Fayemi donated brand new cars to the monarchs during his first tenure. He also ensured that the monarchs got all that is due to them from government in terms of salaries and other emoluments. The governor ensured that members of Pelepelu were given preferential treatment by offering them jeeps, while the lesser Obas were given cars in 2013. Engr. Segun Oni also did a similar programme. Although, Fayemi drew the anger of majority of the monarchs in Ekiti over this preference treatment, his ordeal was however, compounded when those who benefitted from his goodwill were the same people who orchestrated his political downfall. In fact, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, the Deputy Governor, got angry in one of the governorship elections stakeholders meetings held at the Afe Babalola Event Centre, when he expressed regret about the alleged open partisanship of the monarchs. Egbeyemi who was Fayemi’s running mate, told the audience that the traditional rulers were supposed to be fathers to all gladiators rather than queuing  behind a particular political party. Also, the then state Chairman of APC, Jide Awe, in a statement regretted that the traditional leaders by their behaviour had confirmed the allegations raised against them in the media by a group of concerned Ekiti youths, that the Obas agreed to support Fayose when he sought their cooperation while unleashing mayhem on the opposition. “When we read in the media that the Obas agreed to keep quiet when Fayose unleashes violence on the opposition, we did not believe until events began to unfold. To respond to this clearly unfortunate partisan position by the Obas, we will like to ask the same questions that one Ekiti youth group, Ekiti Youth Vanguard, posed to one of the eminent leaders in Ekiti, who refused to talk while Fayose was abusing the constitution and attacking his opponents but now came to his aid when the governor was about paying for his impunity and constitutional breaches. “We ask: where were the Obas when Fayose stormed the court to desecrate the temple of justice? They kept quiet. Where were they when the 19 lawmakers were being hunted in their homes? What did they say or do when seven members of PDP held illegal sitting to purportedly impeach Omirin? The seven PDP lawmakers sat to approve the budget, Fayose’s cabinet nominees and pass certain laws that required public hearings but they refused to hold public hearings on these laws, what did the Obas say about these illegal acts and what did they say or do as the fathers of all to correct the anomalies? “What did they say when Fayose withdrew Omirin’s security aides, seized his official car, locked up his office, cut electricity supply to his house, forced him out of his official quarters and illegally sacked his aides?” Again, the fact that no promoted Obas had ever held that chairmanship position since the council was formed gave the traditional rulers some sympathy among the populace and this makes their grievances look solid and justifiable. By composition, the Council of Ekiti State Traditional Council has Permanent and rotational members and the statute that established it stipulated that: “The permanent and rotational members shall be appointed by the Governor from among the recognised traditional rulers in Ekiti State. “There shall be a chairman for the council who shall be appointed by the Governor on bi-annual rotation among the Pelupelu/Alademerindinlogun Obas in the state,” it stated. Going by the aforementioned, it can be inferred that Alawe is not one of the Alademerindinlogun Obas, but he is a Pelupelu Oba, having been elevated to that status. Whether Fayemi had actually committed an infraction or not by the appointment, will be determined by the court. The matter could have been nipped in the bud, but for some undisclosed reasons, because in a letter earlier written to the governor on August 2 and signed by 16 Pelupelu Obas with the exception of Oore of Otun, Oba Adedapo Popoola, who traveled abroad, the monarchs told Fayemi to reverse the action. They averred that a court had earlier struck out a suit, filed by five monarchs who were promoted to Pelupelu and seeking recognition and perks of that status. They said the promotion of Alawe, Olosi, Olojudo (Ido Ile), Arajaka of Igbara Odo and Oluyin of Iyin Ekiti to Pelupelu rank by past governments, was an erosion of the tradition. They brazenly posited that all the appointments were done in violation of the tradition and existing laws. They said they are opposed to the appointment and threatened that they won’t attend the inauguration of Alawe as the Council Chairman and any meeting of the council where he presides. “We respectfully state that we would be creating a bad precedent to accept to sit under a chairmanship of Alawe as it would amount to a disregard for the tradition on earth and a sin against our forefathers,” they said. The contention of the Obas was that, lesser Obas can only be promoted to Pelupelu status traditionally, that is, through the council of Obas after thorough screening and strict consideration for the antecedents and rich historical and cultural backgrounds of that kingdom. They contended that this was what they did in the case of Olomuo, Attah and Elemure. But government using political strength to promote Alawe, Olosi, Olojudo of Ido Ile, Oluyin and Arajaka was considered an aberration. However, rather than beating the war drum, Alawe in his reaction sounded peaceful and committed to spreading the olive branch to the warring Obas. A source within the traditional council revealed that Alawe became a member of Pelupelu during the colonial days, particularly in 1947. He said a document compiled in 1902 by the then Ooni listed Alawe as one of the descendants of Oduduwa with right to special crown in Yorubaland. Responding, Oba Alabi promised that he would pursue a fence mending mission that will block all cleavages generated by his appointment. He promised that he would be fair to all Obas regardless of status, urging his members to restrict themselves to giving advice to governors and not to criticise since “we are not running a labour union. “We can’t afford any form of antagonism and bickering as we are not in a competition with the Governor. We are advisory body in line with the Law that established this council. We assure Mr. Governor of our unalloyed loyalty to be able to move Ekiti forward. “The best way to cooperate with government is by ensuring that we don’t allow criminal elements to infiltrate our communities. If we do this, we will be able to insulate security threat whether in form of banditry, kidnapping, robbery or insurgency. We can also help government pursue a deliberate policy of disarmament as part of the ways to overcome the present situation.” The issue now is that, when will this crisis be resolved? Would this not portray the governor as taking a pound of flesh owing to perceived overt support the Pelupelu Obas  expressed for Governor Ayodele Fayose in the last governorship election? Will this division drag on or will it be halted through political means? All these perceptions will begin to manifest within the next few days as events unfold. However, Prince Adewaye Adefolalu from the University of Lagos, while stressing the appropriateness of Oba Alabi for the coveted position, said, “In Yoruba, ‘Odu Ifa’ did mention the ancient towns and their importance or contributions to History. Amongst the names mentioned are: Ikole, Ilawe, Ijero, Aramoko, Oye, Ire, Moba, Ikere, Ado, Ologotun, Ijelu to mention but few. Ilawe-Ekiti as one of the ancient towns was specifically mentioned. “It is relevant to write that ‘Odu ifa’ had been in existence years before British colonised Nigeria. I wish you enjoy this song dedicated to Ilawe in Odu ifa’, it was one of the songs that Orunmila sang while passing through Ilawe in his course of his journey of life.” Before now, Alawe had challenged the Ologotu as the permanent chairman of Ekiti South West Traditional Council. The  Ologotun of Ogotun-Ekiti, Oba Samuel, the Arajaka of Igbara-Odo, Oba Edward Jayeola and the Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi have been embroiled in status struggle over their inclusion in the highest cadre of the Ekiti Obas ranking, otherwise known as ‘Pelupelu’ Two traditional rulers in the zone (Alawe and Arajaka) not only challenged  Ologotun’s claim of being the only Pelupelu member but his position as being permanent chairman of the Obas  in the zone.