Builder Samson Soyebi, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Honeytreat Limited, as well as honeytreat trade academy Limited, a building construction and artisan’s development firm, in this interview with OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA, said, we now have a large pool of well-trained Nigerian building technicians available to displace those being sought after from our neighbouring countries. Excerpts: At the seminar where I met you, you were addressed as Builder Soyebi, that is an uncommon appellation, and many are not privileged to be so called; why are you referred so? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It is the appellation used for builders who are registered members of the Nigeria Institute of Building (NIOB), an association which is also affiliated with the Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria, CORBON. The associations are basically for those who read Building as a course of study in an institution of higher learning and it is practically different from Civil Engineering. Builders are basically involved with buildings, I mean housing structures. This is particularly what builders do; builders are building construction process managers, we manage the processes involved in actualising the design of a building from foundation level to the finishing, including the fittings, furnishings and internal décor. Even though we don’t design as the architects do, but, we can advise the design team in components of a building to ensure the designs are buildable, maintainable and conforming to certain standards and fulfills the dream of the client. We also troubleshoot designs to see if they are designed to fulfill the purpose it is designed for and if there is any conflict of design. There is a term called, ‘As Built design’, this design refers to the final design or drawings done as at the time the building structure was handed over to the client. This design shows details of how the building was finally done effecting all variations from the initial design. This design is very key to maintenance of a building, unfortunately Nigerians hardly do this ‘As built drawings’ and that’s why there always challenges while carrying out maintenance activities. You will still find the Builder after the building is completed involved with the maintenance activities of the building. After my building degree and a desire to firm up the marketing aspect of my building business and to be abreast of managerial techniques for building a successful venture, I had to take a degree programme in Economics and today I am also a fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Economists of Nigeria, ICEN, a fellow member of the international council of management consultants, ICMC. In addition to that, I hold an MBA and other certifications to put me in the right stead to successfully run the business. Tell us more about your organisation and what is HTA Trade Academy all about? It is an offshoot of my Building construction company, it was born out of the critical need to get adequate supply of top notch artisans and well trained professionals to handle the various departments and compartments involved in building housing structures. It will astound you to know that there is a short supply of Nigerian trained artisans with competitive edge above their contemporaries from neighbouring countries of Benin, Togo, or South Africa. We sometimes find it difficult to find local hands that can exceptionally execute the aspects of plumbing, tilling, electrifying, painting, furnishing and other important aspects in the building process without breaches and compromises here and there. In fact, today we have Chinese, Indians and other nationals coming into the country to handle these jobs to the detriment of the Nigerian labour market. In reality therefore, you find out that the local artisans are being displaced compounding the unemployment situation in the country. A research into the situation gave me an understanding that we have knowledge and skill gaps, necessitating the need for standardisation of those artisans through a well-structured and strategic training programme. This is what led to the birthing of the academy, where we give skills to fresh intakes and up-skill those in the trade. We also partner with corporate organisations to train their artisans and introduce them to technology and trending patterns in the building industry. Recently we got the attention of the Federal Government through the very laudable ‘Npower’ scheme of the Federal Government, and our training academy got participants to be trained under the ‘Npower’ programme and the Lagos state government in partnership with the GIZ and the UNDP, sent in participants for training. So far over 500 participants have gone through our training programmes which commenced last year, and each graduate is awarded with the academy’s certification which is affiliated to the Nigerian Institute of Building, while those from the government agencies are also given requisite certification in accordance to their mandate. The advantage of these programmes is the fact that it automatically helps to generate employment for our teeming unemployed youths, and make unemployable our crude artisans with improved technological knowhow, and improved work attitude. There are so many training programmes out there offering diversity of skills to people, but many end up without the resources to venture into what they were trained for, how is your training programme different from those others? Our training programme is peculiar, because we train majorly for the construction industry and sometimes for specific programmes or projects. What that means also is that some of the graduate trainees have demands for what they were trained for, while sometimes also organisations specify qualities they want us to focus on. The duration of our trainings are calibrated into different durations depending on the nature of the skills that is involved, some are; three months, a year and so on. All the courses are practical intensive, with theoretical aspects dealing on marketing, administration, management, business communication, health and safety and other valuable issues necessary for profitable relationship with client, aside their core trade. It is also important to note that, though our training are tailored in such a way to be exhaustive and make trainees attain standards that would make them compete internationally, yet they are required to gain expertise through practice and experience on the field. Communication is course content in our training module, through it we teach trainees on how to write proposals, prepare quotations, exhibiting the right body language and cultivating the right relationship with clients. Another thing that is critical that is being conveyed is the art and spirit of teamwork. It is always important to know that for every accomplished task it will involve a chain of roles and responsibilities with different people manning each segment, and it will just be fair enough to acknowledge everybody’s contribution and give them the due reward deserved. We impart in them the win-win attitude, and erase the ‘winner takes all’ mentality that is associated with a lot of them. It is common place among local artisans to see one person hijacking the remuneration belonging to everyone in the line of a responsibility given, or see them trying to handle such task individually without involving other expertise all in a bid to corner all the contract money to themselves alone. Another course is on leadership, which is required to succeed as an entrepreneur. It is relevant for those aspiring to own their businesses and looking forward to lead others successfully. We further teach them on how to set up their business, how to professionally market their skills, and proper account keeping. In a nutshell our training is a total package that is aimed at making the artisan a core professional that is well groomed to succeed on all fronts. As a builder, many factors have been attributed to building collapses in Nigeria, what factors would you attribute to them? How do we forestall it or reduce it to the barest minimum? In stemming down the scourge of building collapse in the country the following groups have to show more responsibility, the government, professionals and the people. The role of the government is to ensure that they regulate building construction process to conform to standard codes, ethics and requirements. Questions that the government needs to answer are; how competent or qualified are those involved with the monitoring activities of building projects, how equipped are they, are they adequately qualified, how do they check or curtail compromise on their part, and those caught compromising how were they treated or punished? The Lagos state Building Control Agency, LABSCA, is doing its best in the present circumstances, but their action is like a drop in the Ocean. I doubt they are well funded or manned as their mandate requires a lot of funding if they will be effective. Apart from the regulation exercises, the government should go ahead to promulgate laws that meet present day realities. On the side of the people or the public, they face the brunt of every collapsed building, with tenants, site workers and innocent passersby affected directly or indirectly. They are the ones who prefer quacks to professionals in the execution of building projects because of money. Quacks don’t understand what it means to build on poor soil texture or the strength of foundation needed to bear certain structures. They would rather use trainee architects, trainee engineers and other low profile professionals to handle their building projects all in a bid to cut costs, the effect of this is the collapse of buildings. The public will further compound their problems by using substandard and so called cheap materials to build without recourse to safety. For the professionals, they are so many that we sometimes have conflict of purposes and difficulty in regulating the activities of some of them. You will find a quantity surveyor taking up the role of a builder, a land surveyor taking the role of a quantity surveyor. We also have a lot of pseudo engineers who have infiltrated the building construction industry, giving the industry some of the most embarrassing tags that are not palatable. The Lagos state government has come up with the requirement that a registered and certified Builder should sign that a building is suitable for habitation; while it’s certified structural engineer that should sign structural drawings for construction activities. These are very laudable steps taken by the Lagos state government to stem the incessant collapse of buildings. Another critical thing that needs to be done is for the various regulating agencies like Standard Organisation of Nigeria, SON, to up their games by ensuring strict adherence to laid down standards for imported building materials been brought into the country. It will stun you to know that for every genuine material that is imported into this country, four other fake ones exist at the least, unfortunately this fake ones are cheaper than the good quality ones. Even if we want to compromise standards, basic structural elements of buildings should not be compromised. How serious is the challenge of providing houses for our teeming population, the Federal Government seems to be making efforts; are they getting it right, or what should they be doing? The government is trying as you alluded, but it is not their responsibility to physically build houses. Federal Government only need to provide the enabling environment for the private sector to carry out such responsibility, and ensure they regulate the sector. The most important thing the government needs to do as a matter of urgency is to bring down the cost of mortgage loan procurement to zero percent if possible, because high interest rate will negatively impact on the cost of buildings and ultimately result in high cost of buying or renting houses. Without a liberal source of financing which housing developers and building materials suppliers can leverage on, it will be difficult to meet the huge deficit in housing demands as we are having it today. Quite a number of developers have to go out of their ways to source for fund, sometimes at cut throat conditions for the construction of the housing projects you see around. But with a sustainable mortgage arrangement in place, you can get affordable housing units for the general masses. Also the government should ensure easy access to land to build removing cases of disputes and ‘omo onile’ as called in Lagos. I want you to x-ray and evaluate the contributions of private organisations in meeting housing demands in the country and efforts at mitigating the housing deficits? The governments of Lateef Jakande, the former Government of Lagos State in the eighties and more recently of Babatunde Fashola, also former Governor of Lagos state, carried out massive housing projects which were later sold out to the public, but it was a far cry from existing demands, throwing up the need for greater private sector participation. It is also unfortunate that investments made in estate developments by some of these private organisation has been marred by the downturn in the economy leaving a number of them in a quandary. The effect is that people can no longer afford them because of liquidity squeeze and sales are stalled. It is therefore expected of the government to provide the necessary enablement that will make it easier for estate developers to access cheap funds which will reflect in the construction and provision of quality and cheaper housing units and a greater number of these houses. In reality, the situation in Nigeria is not really much about scarcity of funds but proper management of these funds to service the diverse needs of the economy. The mismanagement of the economy through corruption by those in charge is also affecting the performance of the housing sector. In other climes, it appears there are different types of housing patterns or models, with some built from cheap and affordable materials, but here in Nigeria we seem to have only one or two types of materials (cement blocks and mud) for building; why is it so, or what other materials or models do we have? The difference between us and the developed countries is technology. With technology you can produce a template of a particular type of housing material in their millions which will automatically drive down the cost of that material with resonating effect on the cost of building. In such countries they have wall template making machines which can produce building walls in millions to drive down the cost of making houses. Clay bricks are also cost effective and do not need further finishing like plastering and painting. Here in Nigeria, we are still using the old and archaic model of mixing cement and sand, sometimes manually to get building blocks. I remember some few years back when the Chinese doors were so costly and out of the reach of average Nigerians, but when the production started in the country, the price crashed down. Apart from the fact that the prices of materials produced en-mass are lower, they are also more firm and stronger. Comparatively, would you say that the cost of building or rent in Nigeria is very high resulting into many not being able to afford building or renting their dream homes? It is so because of our mentality about home ownership. You find out many of us in Nigeria would like to build our own houses rather than explore other options that could get us the same satisfaction without much hassles. Looking at the complex process of getting a house built in the country should give you a clear understanding why building is a bit on the high side. You need to buy a piece of land, get a survey plan, pay different layers of dues and fees to people in the community and then embark on the herculean task of trying to get a certificate of occupancy, C of O, from the government. In the process of getting a house erected you will find yourself having to bribe your way here and there. These uphill requirements are reasons why some are pushed to defraud organisations or others in order to meet up with such skewed societal demands. I remembered when I went for a course of study in Dubai, I stayed in a twenty floor building with 5floors dedicated to parking vehicles and the floors dedicated for housing apartments had about 3 units of three bedroom apartments each, with all of the apartments sharing utilities at reduced costs. Another advantage in terms of cost reduction in building such housing model is that the building was erected on a half plot of land, so it guarantees effective land use. Enumerate some of the projects and programmes undertaken or executed by your organisation?. We are majorly into construction and upgrade of industrial facilities, factories, and facility developments. We are privileged to have carried out such projects for a range of clienteles such as some multi nationals, state governments, and many private individuals desiring quality habitation. And our training institute has organised training programmes for multi nationals like Etco fm, LSETF through our GIZ partners, UNDP through Arcskill, and LSETF, Npower Built through CORBON. Please give us your final thoughts. Nigeria should prioritise skill acquisition and upskilling as a means of stemming the incessant security challenges. A bulk of those perpetrating evil in our society today are doing so as a result of their inability to find a job. At our institute so far, in less than a year, we have been able to train well over 500 trainees and placed them in construction jobs. Some of them are returnees from Libya without any direction of what they want to do, but with the training they are now doing well. Nigeria has the capacity to export skilled labour to the western world to be well paid for their skills, as against the menial jobs most Nigerians do abroad today.