Mixed reactions yesterday greeted the recent electricity tariff review by the Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Segun Ajayi-Kadiri, the Director General, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the recent increase in electricity tariff is rather unfortunate, giving the circumstances private businesses are facing, adding that the fact that there is no indication there would be corresponding improvement in the quality and hours of supply. Ajayi-Kadiri said: “It is generally known that the annual per capital estimated billing put out by DisCos is far more than what is truly supplied. To the average Nigerian, the increase is even seen as stratospheric “However, what we are witnessing is not unexpected and has been the constant agitation of the DisCos in the name of cost reflective tariff.” He stated that DisCos have maintained that the poor supply is majorly due to paucity of resources, which is a direct consequence of charging rates that do not cover their costs. He argued that it was also the opinion of some that the situation was principally a lack of capacity to manage the business and resulting from wrong business judgement/calculation or module from inception. “So, for the average manufacturer, this is bad news. Not so much in the sense of the increase, but because we are not certain that the increase will result in improved supply. For some, it may as well continue to be paying more for services not rendered, especially for those high demand users who are not metered”, he said. Olawale Timothy, the Director General of Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), stated that there has been a consistent agitation by the DisCos since 2015. The agitation, he said, was based on the premise that the cost of production was higher than the amount presently charged. “While we sympathise with the generality of Nigerians for the increase in electricity tariff, the reality remains that without government’s financial support to the DisCos, the other option is to price the product (electricity) appropriately. “With the increase in tariff, it is expected that the DisCos will fast-track the distribution of pre-paid meters, upgrade their distribution networks and ensure constant power supply to Nigerians”, he said.