Temidayo Akinsuyi;Justus Adejumo;Olusegun Koiki;Stephen Ubimago;Chibuike Chukwu;Tony Ezimakor;Innocent Oweh;Samuel Ogidan Mixed reactions on Wednesday trailed inauguration of ministers and assignment of portfolios to them by President Muhammadu Buhari. While some said the ministers are round pegs in square holes others said their appointments were appropriate, noting that they will add value to the administration. The president, however, retained the position of Minister of Petroleum Resources, assigning to former governor of Bayelsa State, Timipreye Sylva, Minister of State for the ministry. He also reviewed the ministries, creating the Ministry of Police Affairs, which he scrapped in 2015; Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, as well as Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management. The other three new ministries are those de-merged from the old ones: Ministry of Aviation, Ministry of Works and Housing, and Ministry of Power. Buhari announced former Akwa Ibom governor, Godswill Akpabio as Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, while Festus Keyamo would serve as Minister of State in the ministry. It would be recalled that President Buhari recently redeployed Senator Ita Enang, his former Senior Special Assistant on National Assembly Matters (Senate) to become SSA on Niger Delta. Other portfolios assigned by the president, which he kept top secret until Wednesday when he made the formal announcement, were Senator Adeleke Mamora, who is to serve as Minister of State for Health, under Osagie Ehanire as Minister of Health. Other appointments which raised eyebrows included the Minister of State, Mines & Steel Development, which went to Ikechukwu Ogah, while Senator George Akume was assigned Minister of Special Duties and International Affairs. The announcement of Chris Ngige to continue as Minister of Labour and Employment sparked protest at the Federal Ministry of Labour, located around the Three Arms Zone in Abuja. Owing to the incessant acrimony between some labour unions and Ngige in his first term, the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) was alleged to have written President Buhari a letter advising him against returning him as minister. Similar grievances was said to have also greeted the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), where Mohammed Bello was reappointed to serve. Rotimi Amaechi, Geoffrey Onyeama, Babatunde Fashola, Zainab Ahmed, Lai Mohammed retained their immediate past ministries, with slight review of their nomenclature, namely Transportation; Foreign Affairs; Works and Housing; Finance, Budget and National Planning; Information and Culture, respectively. The president, while making a remark, warned the ministers on the consequences of flouting the established lines of communication, insisting that all submissions for his attention or meeting requests be channelled through the Chief of Staff. He said all Federal Executive Council (FEC) matters would be coordinated through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation in order to speed up the process of decision-making. “I must emphasise the importance of communication and harmony within our government. You must work in harmony with your fellow ministers. Communication, vertical and horizontal, can only be ignored at a price”, he said. The president equally gave indications that his second term administration would build on the core objectives of improving security, achieving diversified, inclusive economic growth, and fighting corruption. He also stated that he was committed to building a buoyant economy that would support inclusive growth and create a broad-based system that would absorb the two million Nigerians entering the labour market each year, while working to reduce the backlog of over 20 million unemployed and underemployed Nigerians. He reminded the ministers that they must intensify efforts to reduce internal security threats and eliminate corruption at all levels so as to ensure that citizens had a safe and corruption-free environment. According to Buhari, Nigerians required nothing less from the government, especially in terms of prioritising key strategic initiatives required to drive socio-economic growth in the country. As soon as the ministers departed the Presidential Villa, after a group photograph with the president, most of them went to resume at their respective ministries. We Are Not Impressed By Ministers’ Portfolios— Afenifere However, pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, said most of the ministers did not impress Nigerians during their screening at the Senate. Speaking with Daily Independent, Yinka Odumakin, the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary, said it is unfortunate that the ministers, according to President Buhari, will not have access to him but will be restricted to his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, who, he said, has not demonstrated brilliance so far in his duties. “Most of the nominees did not impress in the first place not to talk of the portfolios. Blessed are those who have no expectations as they shall not go through the valley of disappointment”, he said. Buhari’s Next Level Agenda, Mere Propaganda— Junaid Mohammed Similarly, Second Republic lawmaker, Junaid Mohammed, said while it will be unfair to pass judgment on the new ministers, the Next Level agenda promised by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 general elections is mere propaganda. “I know some of the ministers and I have an idea of the portfolios as far as the ministries are concerned. For example, it is so easy to talk about Finance, Aviation or Education but since I don’t know many of the ministers, I think it will be presumptuous of me to comment on what they can do. I don’t think that will be fair to me or to them. So, I think one should wait a little before making comment”, he noted. Inauguration Of Ministers Poor Parade Of Recycled Foot-Travelers— PDP Again, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) described the inauguration of ministers by President Buhari as a poor parade of recycled foot-travelers. The party further said that many of the inaugurated ministers have failed Nigerians in governance assignments. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, holds that in assembling a team made up of persons indicted for corruption and treasury looting, President Buhari has demonstrated that he has nothing to offer to the nation other than condoning and encouraging corruption as well as perpetuating incompetence, failure and ineffectiveness in governance. The party said it is surprised that the president had no clear-cut blueprint to rescue the nation from the economic, security and social quagmires, which his administration had plunged the nation into in the last four years. “Of course, Mr. President has severally demonstrated a lack of required capacity to lead a nation as complex as Nigeria especially at this trying times. “At a ceremony where Nigerians had expected the forceful articulation of a progressive policy thrust, Mr. President bored the nation with an empty and directionless script that only evoked more despondency in our nation. “Instead of helping President Buhari to offer hope, his handlers were more interested on photo-ups and refreshments, away from serous business of governance,” the party said. PDP called on Nigerians to note President Buhari’s contemptible approach to governance and disregard to ministerial portfolios as portrayed in the recent degrading of ministers to clerical aides of Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. “Such demotion of ministers is completely unacceptable, counter-productive and reduces governance to a domestic affair,” it said. PDP added that it feels the pains and anguish of Nigerians, who by now would have been enjoying the benefits of the much-desired economic recovery blueprint articulated by its candidate, Atiku Abubakar. “Nigerians will recall that in Atiku’s blueprint, proactive strategic policies and plans were laid out for rapid interventions in critical sectors of our national lives to address the security, economic and social problems caused by the Buhari administration and return our nation to her pride of place,” PDP said. Reservations Over Pantami As Minister of Communications Reacting to the appointment of Dr. Ali Isa Pantami as the new Minister of Communications, Mr. Deolu Ogunbanjo, president, National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers (NATCOMS), expressed reservations over the appointment. In his view, he said the ministry needs somebody who has in-depth knowledge about telecoms and who has been with the relevant agency that focuses more on telecoms. “Well, we were looking at someone who understands telecom. We were thinking Sunday Dare will be the Minister for Communications. In fact, during the screening session at the Senate, they asked him telecom-related questions. But we expected Dare actually to man the ministry, but then, the president knows why he didn’t give him the portfolio. We were thinking of Sunday Dare, since he was a board member of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). “We were almost celebrating that telecoms will take a new turn. At least, he has experience already. But I don’t think the new minister knows so much about telecoms. Again, it is all about how you manage that ministry, so that’s why whatever it is we have now, we have to go along with the president. We have not seen him in any telecoms gathering and he has not been contributing. We don’t even know his background. Look at Omobola Johnson, she made some difference”, Ogunbanjo said. On his part, Olusola Teniola, president, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), said the new minister’s appointment is well received. “You know he has a track record in NITDA and the changes he made in NITDA are changes that he made on his understanding of where is supposed to be. Now that he is at the helm of affairs of the Ministry of Communications, we will await his new manifesto”, he said. Lawyers Lament Malami’s Reappointment As AGF Lawyers have condemned President Muhammadu Buhari’s reappointment of Abubakar Malami (SAN) as Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. Reacting to the development in exclusive chat with Daily Independent, the lawyers say Malami’s reappointment is not good for Nigeria in light of the man’s antecedents. Adesina Adegbite, the immediate past Welfare Secretary, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), said, “I am not impressed at all. “Malami is a personal acquaintance. I have nothing personal against him. In fact, if you come to my office, you will see the picture I took with him. He’s my senior. He has not offended me in any way. “But the truth must be stated. Malami, as the Attorney General of the Federation during Buhari’s first term, did not handle the affairs of his office creditably. “He failed to discharge his duty with respect to the rule of law. He justified Buhari’s habit of disobeying court orders. Some even believe that as the AGF he was the one advising the president to disobey court orders. “Malami gleefully maintained that the president is at liberty to disobey court orders because of national security. So the man indicted himself; he shot himself in the leg. “Secondly, he presided over the humiliation of the judiciary. Look at the raiding of judges; the disgraceful sack of Justice Onnoghen, and many others. “Malami shouldn’t have been reappointed. I am not saying he should not be appointed a minister. I am only saying he shouldn’t have been reappointed AGF. “That office should have been for another person. His reappointment is not a good thing for Nigeria.” Speaking in a similar vein, Mr. James Ezike, a senior lawyer, said the reappointment of Malami as AGF is indicative that democracy is dead in Nigeria. “For me the reappointment of Abubakar Malami as AGF shows that democracy is dead in Nigeria, especially since the inauguration of Buhari, a maximum ruler,” he said. He explained, “If Buhari appointed Malami as minister, must the Senate confirm his appointment? This is a man who presided over the worst era in the nation’s justice sector. Yet the Senate would confirm his appointment. “I blame the Senate for this. In advanced democracies, a person like Malami will never smell public office again. “Malami presided over the worst period in the nation’s judicial annals. Malami was screened by people who were allegedly elected to represent the wishes of the people at the National Assembly. “If these senators were really elected by Nigerians, and are in the Senate to represent their will, would they have been so brazen as to confirm the appointment of a man like Malami? “Truth is that those guys parading themselves as senators were not elected by Nigerians. They got into the Senate by means other than the electoral process. “That is all I can read from his development. This is a reflection of Nigeria’s broader problem as a nation.” Return Of Sirika Good For Aviation Industry
— Stakeholders But players in the Nigerian aviation industry said that the reappointment of Hadi Sirika as the substantive minister was good for the sector. Those who spoke to Daily Independent said that his re-appointment was expected and would ensure continuity of government programmes. Bankole Bernard, Managing Director, Finchglow, said the return of Sirika to the sector would ensure continuity in government’s policies and vision for the system in Nigeria. Bernard, who also doubles as the president of National Association of Nigerian Travel Agencies (NANTA), said that Sirika had been able to bring stability to the sector through the continuous operation of Aero Contractors and Arik Air despite their recent challenges and expected him to continue in that stead. “Part of the challenges Nigeria is having is inconsistency in policies, vision and direction of how we want the industry to go. Let’s take a look back and look at anything concrete the last three ministers in the sector before him have done. “When you look at what Sirika has done, you will agree with me that he brought experts onboard. You can’t change everything. Capt. Roy Ilegbodu, a seasoned pilot was brought into Arik and he is changing the face of the airline today. That airline would have died and buried, but, he took charge. “Aero Contractors would have been gone and buried, but today, we are seeing a turnaround in that airline. This is so because some leaders somewhere took certain decisions. Look at what is happening at the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), are you going to tell me the man there is not doing anything? He queried. Bernard, however, wanted the new minister to continue with the national carrier project for the country, stressing that without it, the industry and the tourism sector would continue to suffer. Also, Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd), another aviation analyst, said Sirika was the right man for the job. He lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for his reappointment, saying that the industry would move in the right direction. Workers Jubilate As Amaechi Returns To Transportation Ministry Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation, on Wednesday returned to his familiar turf with happy workers of the ministry celebrating his return to a ministry he headed from 2015 to May this year. The minister, along with the Minister of State (Transportation), Gbemi Saraki, arrived the ministry about 1.30p.m, and was received by jubilant workers who expressed joy at his return. Family and friends joined the staff of the ministry to welcome the minister, who told the crowd that he would officially resume duty on August 26. “Thank you for the warm welcome; I will officially resume duty on August 26, address the staff and probably brief the media afterwards. “I can see that some of you are doing well and I can see smiling faces, but I want to ask you all to go back to work and I will resume on Monday, for my official duty,” he said. On the appointment of Sunday Dare as Minister of Youth and Sports, Chief Segun Odegbami said he is cerebral, good, a fantastic journalist, very cultured, broad minded, knowledgeable and hopeful about him. I Don’t Know How Interior Ministry Operates — Aregbesola The newly appointed Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, confessed on Wednesday that he lacks any knowledge of workings of the Interior Ministry. He made the confession during a brief visit to the ministry following his inauguration by President Muhammadu Buhari. He admitted that aside the brief stories about the ministry he read on the pages of the newspapers, he had no idea of its policies and operations. “My relationship with the ministry is distant. What I know about the ministry is what I read in the newspapers,” he acknowledged. The former Osun State governor consequently instructed Georgina Ehuriah, the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, to continue her supervision of the ministry until Monday when he will formally resume. The permanent secretary has been holding forth since the dissolution of the immediate past cabinet. “I will come to take over on Monday. I give the permanent secretary the grace to run the ministry till then. We will be ready by Monday to take on the huge assignment,” Aragbesola said. He, however, assured the staff of a purpose driven leadership. “I promise you a realistic, reasonable and commendable leadership”, while urging staff of the ministry to be ready for more work as he will be demanding much more from them. Earlier in her speech, Ehuriah while welcoming the minister to the ministry, added that the ministry needed a focused personality like him to lead it because of its strategic position in the security architecture of the country.