BENIN – Edo State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned the visit of Governor Godwin Obaseki to Uwelu Spare Parts to commiserate with the traders over the fire incident at the market. The PDP, which described the visit as “a rush visit”, berated the state government for failing to make provision for efficient fire service equipment in the state, adding that the governor’s promise to the affected trader as “a fire brigade approach”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Chris Osa Nehikhare, the party’s Publicity Secretary to a statement, said, “the state government led by Governor Obaseki cannot deny that it was not aware of the problem being faced by the traders of Uwelu Spare Parts market before the incident but was very quick to visit the scene and as usual set up a committee to determine the cause of the fire. “This cliché is the bane of the APC led government that is always emphasising on misplaced priorities. In its almost 12 years in the saddle, the APC led government has failed miserably to address the state of roads, lack of water and convenience and other infrastructural facilities in Uwelu spare parts market, but has found it convenient to visit the place and make promises soon after a tragedy strikes. “While we in Edo PDP sympathise with the traders and families of those who lost valuables and were directly or indirectly affected by the inferno, we see this outbreak as one too many. “We condemn in very strong terms lack of an efficient, well funded, equipped and trained fire fighters. We have over the years lamented the deplorable state the APC led government has plunged the state fire service department, a situation that has eroded confidence and destroyed the morale of the few brave men and woman that have remained in the service. “Instead of just setting up a committee to probe the cause of the fire, which in itself is misplaced, we  call on Governor Obaseki to without delay apologise to the traders in Uwelu market over the government’s sluggish approach in revamping and reorganising the fire service department that worth its name. “The governor should also as a matter of urgency, pull up his sleeve and begin to govern and spend less time, energy and state resources in a needless battle of superiority with his Godfather while governance takes the back seat,” the statement added.