LAGOS – Experts drawn from legal, security agencies, media, information technology, civil society organizations have agreed that the solution to corruption and insecurity in the country falls within the ambit of family unit, government agencies, generality of the citizens, adherence to best practices and holding leaders accountable for their stewardships. Wahab Shittu, while delivering a lecture on Thursday on the theme, “Fighting Corruption and Insecurity: The Way Forward”, said that emphasis should no longer be on corruption and insecurity alone because they were not new to Nigerians rather emphasis should be solution to the menace. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He stated that searchlight should be on the family unit, promoting core values in family system, building integrity, honesty and discipline. He said that people engage in crime because they felt that there were no consequences. He maintained that those saying that Boko Haram was an attempt to Islamize the country live in the moon because the criminals attack everyone irrespective of religion or tribe. He said that Nigerians should see Boko Haram and insurgency as evil. He said that the best way to curb insurgency should be to look at international best practices. He stated that the country must as create state police because crime is localized. The convener of the programme, Janet Mba Afolaba, publisher of Scroll Report, said that the desire for nation building and ensuring democratic sustainability had inspired her to organize the programme, maintaining that there was need to curb insecurity and corruption for Nigeria to grow as a country. Segun Jegede, a lawyer and former international prosecutor, United Nations, said that corruption had threatened the nation’s corporate existence because some elements of culture, absence of strong sense of national commitment, dysfunctional legal system and inequality in the distribution of wealth were some of the causes of insecurity. He advised that the way forward should be for Nigerians to come together and agree on how they could live together as a united people. He said that Nigerians must go back to the drawing board. Frank Odita, a security expert, on his part believed that security was not the business of the police alone but everybody’s business and noted that if security must be put in the front burner, it must start with government.