IBADAN – Senator Rashidi Ladoja, former governor of Oyo State, on Sunday declared that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) government was not ready to address the problem of insecurity in the country. Ladoja, who is the Osi Olubadan of Ibadan land, spoke with journalists at Bodija after observing Eid-el- Kabir prayers. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The former governor who was speaking on the continued detention of the leader of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) Ibrahim El-Zakazaky said: “If we are not careful we will complicate the problem. We have constitutional governments at all levels. No arm should dominate another. If one dominates another, we will be in problem. “We are looking for another problem if the man dies in custody. Insecurity is not limited to the Southwest. The government is not ready for security. If it is ready, government knows what to do. “We are not frank with ourselves and sincere with the people. A lot of people don’t trust the government again because of insincerity. On the essence of the celebration, Ladoja said: “This is the only festival for all faiths. All faiths believe in Prophet Ibrahim. The only thing the festival teaches is that we must believe in God. If you promise people you must fulfil it. Government must fulfil its promise to the people. There is nothing better than sacrifices. Ladoja said “We have to look at the root cause of the problem we have, it is only when we look at the root cause of the problem that we can be able to find lasting solutions to it. There are some issues that we have to manage carefully, look at the Shiite problem for instance if the problem is not properly handled it can escalate to something else. I do not pray for such to happen, if El-Zakzaky dies in detension it can cause another Jihad problem. If one arm of government is over depending on the other these are what you will see. “That is the way the Boko Haram issue started, and now the military are saying that the sect have been technically defeated but we see Boko Haram are the one killing the military, we have to be sincere to ourselves, in a situation where the military are killing the police and they should be the one protecting us, you can see that to me it means that our leaders are not ready to tackle the situation on ground. Because up till now we have not heard of any arrest on the killing of the best police officers, our government are not ready yet to fight the insecurity in the country.”