LAGOS – Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) said that it would soon expand its scope beyond aviation by investigating road, rail and maritime incidents and accidents and subsequently issue safety recommendations. This is as the bureau said it has signed Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) with France, Benin Republic and Sao Tome and Principe on training, incidents and accidents investigations. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Engr. Akin Olateru, the Commissioner of AIB disclosed these to journalists over the weekend in Lagos. Olateru said that to make the multimodal investigation possible, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) had approved the proposal in 2018 and a bill to that effect was presently at the National Assembly for approval, hoping that it would be passed into law before the end of the year. He explained that with the passage and consent of the President, AIB would have the constitutional power to investigate all modes of transportation incidents and accidents and equally issue safety recommendations to prevent recurrence. He assured that with such power, rail, road and maritime accidents would be reduced to the barest minimum, while safety would further be enhanced in the country. He said: “We are currently working on the possibility and the approval of AIB going multimodal. Going multimodal means we are going to be investigating not just the air accident, we are going to be investigating rail accidents, we are going to be investigating marine accidents and road accidents. We are joining nations round the world who operate this multimodal system of operations. “Last year, the Federal Executive Council approved our proposal – the new draft bill for AIB. Before the Senate went on recess, this bill is on the table of the Senate and hopefully, before the end of this year, this bill will be passed and that would make AIB Nigeria one of the top nations that do multimodal.” In a bid to make it effectively carry out the investigations, Olateru said that more transport professionals in rail, maritime and road would be employed to beef up its current staff strength. Besides, Olateru disclosed that currently, several countries wanted to sign MoUs with the bureau on investigation of its incidents and accidents. So far, he said AIB had signed MoUs with France, Benin Republic and Sao Tome and Principe, stressing that the MoU with France would enable it to help other African francophone countries investigate their major incidents and accidents, while also training their personnel. He also emphasised that in the next one month, AIB would sign an MoU with Saudi Arabia for the training of its investigators, amongst many others. “But to me, you must have something sellable; you must have something they see in you that they admire in you before they want to sign an MOU with you. In terms of infrastructure, you will agree with me that there are four key elements to that irrespective of the industry, sector. The four major components are; human capital, infrastructure, equipment and systems processes and procedure. “It takes time to build all these four key elements. Today, I can tell you in terms of equipment, AIB is one of the best in the world. I thank the past Minister of State for Transportation for his belief and support for making it happen. We are rated among the first 10 in the world in terms of equipment and capabilities. “In terms of infrastructure, we are rated 7/10 today. In terms of human capital, we have over 30 well-trained investigators in Nigeria today. The whole of West Africa are less than 30 investigators. So, you can understand the number. In terms of systems and processes, we are rated 8/10. We are independent.