Giuseppe Conte, Italy’s prime minister, has announced his intention to resign, in the culmination of a political crisis that was sparked earlier this month when Matteo Salvini pulled the plug on the 14-month-old governing coalition. Addressing parliament, Mr Conte launched a blistering attack on his own interior minister, Mr Salvini, accusing him of sinking the ruling coalition and endangering the economy for personal and political gain. He accused the head of the League party of seeking to cash in on his rising popularity. “He has shown that he is following his own interests and those of his party,” Mr Conte told a packed Senate, with a stony-faced Mr Salvini sitting by his side. “His decisions pose serious risks for this country.” The prime minister, who belongs to neither of the coalition’s two parties, is expected to hand in his resignation later in the day, allowing the head of state to start formal consultations with parties to see if a new coalition can be formed. One option would be for the Five Star Movement to form a new alliance with the centre-Left Democratic Party. Mr Salvini, who is interior minister as well as joint deputy prime minister, is furious at such a prospect, because it would shut him out of power. He called it “a shameful scam which would betray the will of the people.” He wants Italy to hold new elections and would likely be able to form a new, Right-wing government in coalition with the far-Right Brothers of Italy party. The League is polling at around 38% and is by far the most popular party in Italy. An alliance with Brothers of Italy would bring another 5-6%. The League might also look for the support of Silvio Berlusconi’s Forza Italia party. Mr Salvini’s crackdown on migrants and refugees trying to reach Italy from North Africa, particularly Libya, has proved wildly popular with large numbers of Italians, after the country took in more than 600,000 asylum seekers in just five years. The crisis, precipitated two weeks ago when Mr Salvini said the coalition was irredeemably broken, has plunged the eurozone’s third largest economy into uncertainty. It comes as the country must prepare its 2020 budget plans and submit them to the EU – the deadline is at the end of the year. A new coalition between Five Star and the Democratic Party would be no guarantee of stability for Italy because the two parties have sharp policy differences. And even within the Democratic Party, there is disagreement over whether it would be a good idea – it is opposed by the current leader, Nicola Zingaretti, but supported by ex-leader and former prime minister Matteo Renzi. Despite all the acrimony of the past two weeks, there is even speculation in the Italian media that Five Star and the League could bury the hatchet and come together again in a new, rejigged coalition that would give greater power to the League. Mr Conte could even be invited back to lead the coalition, meaning Italy would be back where it started. Another option would be for a temporary caretaker government to be formed. Either way there will be days, and probably weeks, of political horse-trading and backroom deals before a clearer picture emerges of the direction in which Italy is heading.