Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has almost disowned the Nigerian cybercrime suspects who were recently revealed as being on the watch list of the American Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Speaking on Thursday in Yokohama, Japan, President Buhari noted that the suspects did not represent the core values of Nigerians. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Although he conceded that some Nigerians had become a source of embarrassment to the country, he said their number was not significant enough to define Nigeria as a country of people with dubious character. Buhari rose to the defence of Nigeria when he met with leaders of the Nigerian community living in Japan on the sideline of the Seventh Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD7). Recall that about 80 Nigerians were alleged to have engaged in illicit financial crimes abroad for which the American government was set to prosecute them in accordance with their legal system. Buhari said: “Let me also say that there are few Nigerians in the Diaspora that are giving us a bad name by engaging in criminal activities. These Nigerians are a minority; they do not represent the values of our country, and I plead with them to change their ways.” Talking tough, he said: “We will not condone any crime, whether at home or abroad, and we will also not allow these Nigerians define us as a people with reputation for criminality.” He pleaded with Nigerians in Japan to be good ambassadors of their fatherland saying, “I am personally very happy that there are millions of Nigerians all over the world, like you here, who are truly making us proud.” He said majority of the over 17 million Nigerians in Diaspora should consider themselves as “the face of Nigeria globally and our ambassadors for good image”. He added: “Many of our Diasporans, like your good selves here today, have excelled in varying fields of endeavour, both professionally and individually. “You have also made significant and overwhelming positive contributions to your Nigerian and international host communities. “You have continually been a positive bridge between Nigeria and the world. It is not an easy feat and we commend you, salute your courage and efforts.” Buhari also noted that Japan was at the cutting edge of technology and efficiency, two very important attributes that could play a role in Nigeria and improve our capacity for development. President Buhari urged members of his audience to continue to contribute their quota by helping to develop their host country and Nigeria as well. “I look forward to your inborn gift, ability, and capacity in taking up this challenge,” he said. He commended many of them who were already “positively impacting the Nigerian economy through financial home remittances, promoting international trade in Nigerian commodities, our music, culture, tourism, sports, and education, while also helping to establish industries in Nigeria”. The president urged them “to encourage legitimate Japanese entrepreneurs to come and invest in Nigeria”. According to him, “We are continually working to create the necessary enabling environment for investors to thrive, through improvements in our Ease of Doing Business practices, providing security, diversification of the economy, infrastructure and fighting corruption.” He further assured them that “we have put in place the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERPG) to put the country on a path of sustained recovery and growth”. Explaining the rationale for his regular meetings with Nigerians abroad and the establishment of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, President Buhari said: “As you are aware, I have regularly held town hall meetings with Nigerians in the Diaspora on all my foreign engagements, be they in Europe, Asia, America, and Africa. “At these fora, I have always appealed to our citizens to be our good ambassadors, observe the laws of your host countries, excel in whatever you do legitimately, and also remember us at home (Nigeria). “I have established the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission specifically to engage with you, signifying a coordinated attempt by our administration to increase the involvement of our Diaspora in our national development. “Collectively, your resources, skills, and talents will be a positive force for our country which can help accelerate our national growth and development.” President Buhari’s meeting with Nigerians in Diaspora was coordinated by Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman, Diaspora Commission, who described the president as “the most Diaspora-friendly leader we have had in Nigeria”. The meeting witnessed a parade of the brightest and best of Nigerians plying their trade in Japan. They included academics, industrialists, top businessmen, scientists, economists, and many others. Professor Ejiogu Emenike, President, Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation Asia (NIDOASIA) and an energy expert, commended President Buhari for efficient leadership, and disclosed that his members had “comparative advantages in human capital development, which we are trying to bring back to Nigeria”. He added: “Any problem that science and technology can solve, we are able to, and we can help Nigeria in areas of need.” Engineer Ochade Osakwe, Chairman, Nigeria/Japan Chambers of Commerce and Industry, recounted businesses that had been  attracted to Nigeria in recent times, promising to do more, as the security and investment climate back home improve. Nnaji Fintan, President, Nigerian Union in Japan, asked for more exploits in the areas of education, quality infrastructure, and security which, incidentally, are believed to be focal points of the current administration.