Chijioke Agwu, Innocent Oweh Abakaliki / Abuja – Governors of the South East zone on Tuesday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to defer the closure of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, to the end of October 2019. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to a letter addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari and signed by chairman of the forum and governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, the governors said the postponement of the closure would enable them to make adequate arrangements for airport users in the zone as well as carry out some remedial works at the airport. The Federal Government, through Henrietta Yakubu, the General Manager (Corporate Affairs) of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), had at the weekend revealed that it would close the runway at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, for major repair works on the airfield. But the governors said the closure of the Enugu airport was too prompt and would not give them enough time to make adequate security arrangement for the convenience of the people and visitors to the zone who would be travelling long distances to alternative airports where flights would be diverted to, following the closure. The governors called on President Buhari to direct the aviation sector of the Federal Ministry of Transport to provide immediate palliatives in form of transportation with armed escorts and helicopter services to prospective passengers from alternative airports that connect the zone. The governors also appealed to the president to urge the Federal Ministry of Works, in collaboration with the South East Governors’ Forum, to carry out palliative repairs on the major roads leading to the alternative airports as well as clear all the bushes along the routes for better view of road users. They equally demanded that 24-hour joint security patrol be provided for the safety of the people and visitors to the South East who would be using the roads day and night through the alternative airports. Part of the letter reads: “The South East Governors’ Forum highly appreciates Your Excellency, Mr. President, for granting our request for the immediate resurfacing of the tarmac and extension of the runway of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, for public safety. “May we use this opportunity to also thank you for the consistent progress of work at the second Niger Bridge in Onitsha and other Federal Government projects in the South East, especially the completion of the Zik’s Mausoleum in Onitsha and the 2.8 megawatts solar power plant at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu, Alike Ikwo in Ebonyi State. “As we thank you, Mr. President, we are constrained to ask for your kind intervention in the observations we have made to the Federal Ministries of Transport (Aviation sector) and Works on the closure of the airport for the renovation works. “Your Excellency, in our letters to the respective ministries, we observed that the notification of the closure was prompt, giving us no time to make adequate arrangement for the security and convenience of our people and visitors to the South East who will be travelling long distances to alternative airports where flights will be diverted to. “We request that the closure of the airport be deferred to the end of October, 2019 to enable adequate arrangements to be made for security of the airport users and for few remedial works within seven days to be carried out at the tarmac to ensure safety.” The governors also asked the president to approve their earlier resolution banning herdsmen without cattle and movement of cattle by foot in the zone. According to them, it would eliminate the increasing cases of killing, maiming, raping of women, kidnapping, destruction of farmlands mostly carried out by herdsmen with the backing of some compromised local herders. “That Mr. President do approve the earlier resolution of the South East governors banning herdsmen without cattle and movement of cattle by foot in the zone to eliminate increasing cases of killing, maiming, raping of our women, kidnapping of our people and destruction of our farmlands mostly carried out by foreign herdsmen and in most cases with the backing of some compromised local herders. “We plead with Mr. President that we publish this letter to assuage our people’s feelings who erroneously think that no efforts are being made by the leaders of the South East to tackle insecurity and the economic challenges facing the zone and to let them know that her leaders before now have been working very hard without making noise as issues of security must not be discussed in the public,” the governors concluded. Buhari Asks Ministers To Channel Meeting Request Through Chief Of Staff Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari may have split part of his administrative roles between the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, and his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. This came to the fore on Tuesday after a two-day presidential retreat for ministers-designate and other top government functionaries came to an end at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. President Buhari said: “In terms of coordination, kindly ensure that all submissions for my attention or meeting requests be channelled through the Chief of Staff, while all Federal Executive Council matters be coordinated through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation.” While outlining some of the challenges before the administration in the next four years, Buhari wondered if the timeframe would be enough to deliver on the fresh mandate. He noted that majority of Nigerians were poor and were anxiously hoping for a better life, one in which they would not have to worry about what they would eat, where they would live, or if they could afford to pay for their children’s education or healthcare. Buhari also tasked the ministers-designate expected to be sworn in today at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, that their responsibility as leaders was to meet those basic needs for the people.