Chika Nwokedi was a governorship aspirant in Imo State in the March gubernatorial election on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Nwokedi, a philanthropist and business mogul, in an interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, spoke about the need for President Muhammadu Buhari to be decisive in tackling the current security challenges and other sundry issues. Excerpt: Powered by RubiQube Ad Network How would you assess Emeka Ihedioha  as the governor of your state? During my governorship campaigns and even on my posters, I wrote that Imo State shall be great again with me or someone else as governor. But, people asked me why I said so and I replied that it is not by force to be the governor of Imo state. But whoever that is the state governor is someone chosen by God. I see and believe that Imo State shall be great again. Ihedioha just assumed the position. There is nothing I can say until after one year. All eyes are on him. Let us allow him to work. What should be Ihediohia’s immediate task? His immediate task should be creating jobs for the citizenry for the teeming youths of the state. Security is an issue. But, if there is no job, you cannot achieve much. Ihedioha cannot do it alone. There is need to provide free education.  He needs to know what is good and bad. As I am talking to you now, there is no road in Imo State. The roads are in poor state. I just came back from the village some days ago. About 30 roads Okorocha did, about 18 are now not motorable. In one of the road in Orlu, the bridge collapsed because there was no rod put to support it during construction. When you are a governor, your tenure is just for four years, after which you will leave office. So, let people feel your impact. Okorocha knew he did not perform and it would haunt him. What is your take on actions of the state’s asset recovery committee? Okorocha’s daughter accused a member of the committee of slapping her recently. How do you see the allegation? I am not aware of that. I don’t believe everything you read in newspapers. Every government has a right to recover stolen state properties. I saw some message on social media where a lot of the properties stolen from Imo State were being recovered from a building. There were many things that were being taken out from the container and building. You are said to be close to the police authorities and the APC government. How do you see the security situation in the country? Let us leave APC or SDP alone. Let us look how we will make the country work. We don’t need that now. We should collectively join hands to move the country forward. There is no security; lives are not secured. I was attacked at Benin toll gate recently. They pursued me to Ore and wanted to kidnap me. Immediately they stopped me and attempted to pull their gun, I zoomed off. They chased me, firing at my car. But, they could not succeed. The kidnappers were four boys. They wanted me to park and brought out guns and pursued me until they got to the checkpoint where there were security personnel. The security situation is scary. There is no security in Nigeria. Things have got out of hand. I don’t know if they were robbers or kidnappers. A cross of Nigerians has accused the President of not doing enough to check insecurity. Would you agree? Yes, but, I think the President has appointed people to work and deal with these issues. But, they are not working or giving him good advice. Buhari does not watch television or read newspaper. Nigeria is a large country with enormous problems. Buhari  is not like former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who as a president did not read papers, but moved around and monitored what was happening across the country. So, let Buhari move out and know what Nigerians are going through. The people are suffering and the security situation is getting worse. Let him come to Lagos by road. Let him move from Abuja to Kaduna by road. He will know how bad the state of the roads is. But, he is always flying. How can someone that is appointed Minister of Works be travelling by air? Let him travel by road so that he can see the state of the roads in the country. But, we all have a role to play. It is not all about Buhari, we are one Nigeria. Let all of us check ourselves and our actions. But, the government said they are installing CCTV and drones on our major highways? Are you in this country? Did you not see the large amount that was used to purchase CCTV and drones in the previous administration? Where are they now? It is a failed project before arrival. The thing can work. Anyone can curtail crime if they are serious about, but we know they are not. So, they know what they should do. Let us see if it would go a long way in solving the security situation, if it is deployed. Have you thought about joining the ruling party in your state? Or are you thinking of quitting politics? For now, I am not a member of any party. I went and I saw things for myself. Nigerian politics is not for men of God. I believe God that I will return in 2023. Things are so bad that even if majority of the electorate come out and say they want me, it would not be like that because of the kind of electoral system we operate now. I have experience in politics which will help me in 2023. If God says I will be there, he will take me there. But, I cannot kill because I want to rule. That is why I say Imo shall be great again, with me or without me. I am praying for the people who are there. I will give them support because I know one day I will be there. What I am thinking now that I came out in 2019 after election. Let us focus on governance, how this country would be good. I cannot quit politics because I want to serve my people. I have been helping the less privileged in several ways with my little resources. Can you imagine what I would do for the people if I become governor? I don’t have money, but I built houses for my people. I initiated boreholes. I have been helping people with what God gives me. During the Obasanjo administration, ministers were asked to take a bow and go during screening. I am not an APC man, but we must say the true. I am sure they know what they are doing. How have you impacted on your community which we learnt recently offered you a chieftaincy title? I was surprised when someone forwarded me a picture of myself which was taken in 1995; after I had just collecting my first chieftaincy title when I was very young. Recently I received a letter from leaders of my community that they wanted to honour me with a chieftaincy title. But, I said no. However, after speaking with my brothers, they advised me to accept, that it is an honour. But, the ceremony coincided with my birthday and child dedication. I have taken chieftaincy titles everywhere across the Southeast; there is another one here; they are giving me in Mushin, Lagos in December. Right now, there is no road to enter my community and it is shameful. Rochas Okorocha is my brother; we are from the same place in Idiato. My place to his area is about five minute drive. But, he did not build any road in the community; that is why I came out to contest for the governorship ticket of the SDP. The roads are bad, now I have sent money for them to do the major road because my friends are coming from across the country for the ceremony. I have given borehole to the people in my constituency. We are doing a lot there.