In a renewed and spirited effort to ensure the effective recovery of over N5 trillion being outstanding debts owed the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), a new task force has been set up to get the job done without fail. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo gave the indication during a meeting with board members and management of AMCON and selected heads of government agencies, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday evening. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Those agencies include the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and also the Permanent Secretaries of the Justice and Transport Ministries. To this effect, a special task force/committee comprising of the Heads of AMCON, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and the Ministry of Justice, will be working to develop and implement new strategies that will ensure that the determination of the FG to recover the money is speedily achieved. Osinbajo said all the relevant agencies have to re-strategise to achieve the desired results. “The key is collaboration. We need a small team comprising these agencies to look at the next steps that we need to take, especially the criminal aspect, forfeiture, and all of that,” the VP directed. He said the task force should look at the top 20 AMCON defaulters closely and develop a plan of action that brings results. The Vice President had previously in May met with AMCON management to discuss how to resolve the issue. According to the AMCON Chairman, Mr. Muiz Banire, almost 67 per cent of the outstanding N5trillion debt is owed by just 20 individuals/entities. Banire noted that the agency had been “trying its best in its attempt to recover this through the civil judicial process, but had encountered several challenges.” Also present at the meeting was the Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu; Chairman, ICPC, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye; Director/Chief Executive, NFIU, Mr. Modibbo Tukur; Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Sabiu Zakari; and other senior government officials. The worrisome aspect of the issue is that these obligors still manipulate their way to emerge as members of the National Assembly, ministers, chairmen and women of big organisations and pro-chancellors of universities. The measures proposed by the vice president are certainly no more than those that would be expected of a responsible government in the circumstances. However, what the task at hand requires are tough measures from the CBN and AMCON. The judicial system might be tardy and frustratingly so; nothing however says that pathological debtors and entities remotely linked to them cannot be shut out of any form of credit until they make good on their indebtedness.