Yenagoa – Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, on Wednesday, inaugurated the new Executive Secretary of the state Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Victor Okubonanabo.
The event took place at Government House, Yenagoa, shortly before the 109th State Executive Council meeting commenced.
Dickson charged the new SUBEB boss to strictly follow due process in running the affairs of the board to enable the state benefit maximally from the counterpart funding programme.
He urged Okubonanabo to imbibe the spirit of team work to ensure the effective implementation of activities of the board in conformity with laid down procedures.
Dickson, who pointed out the significant role SUBEB plays in the development of education in the country, stressed the need for accountability and transparency in the operation of the board.
According to him, the state and Federal Governments have 50 percent stake each in the counterpart funding arrangement, and called on the board’s management to avoid any unwholesome practice that would shortchange the state.
The governor also directed the Commissioner for Special Projects, Pius Jonah, to oversee the Ministry of Local Government Administration following the passage of the commissioner in charge of the ministry, Agatha Goma.
In his response, the new SUBEB secretary, Okubonanabo, expressed gratitude to the governor for his appointment and pledged to work towards achieving the mandate of the board.
A moment of silence was observed in honour of Agatha Goma, the departed Commissioner for Local Government Administration.
It would be recalled that Okubonanabo was last Friday screened and confirmed by the state House of Assembly to replace Walton Liverpool who was sacked by the governor on the recommendations of the Assembly for allegedly running the SUBEB like a sole administrator and awarding contracts without due process.
Dickson, shortly after relieving Liverpool of his appointment, forwarded the name of Pius Jonah as replacement to the lawmakers, which the Assembly acknowledged.
Despite startling revelations which indicted Liverpool in 2014 when the Assembly probed the board’s activities, the governor retained him and re-appointed him after his re-election in 2016.