BENIN – Prof. Stephen Omodia, Deputy Vice Chancellor, Edo University, Iyamho (EUI), has stressed the need for reform in all political parties in the country for them to achieve credibility and accountability that would enhance good governance. Omodia, a Professor of Political Science and Public Administration, made the call while delivering the first inaugural lecture series of the institution, titled: “Bourgeoisification of the Nigerian Political Process and the Search for Good Governance.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said the call for the reform of the nation’s political parties had become imperative because they had been characterised by ethnicity, weak organisation network and poor democratic culture. “If good governance is to be established and enhanced in Nigeria political process, political parties’ recruitment must be reformed in such a way that it would enhance credibility, accountability and people centred governance. “For political process to be transparent and credible, of course they know they have to reform the process of throwing up candidates to make sure that the best and most appealing emerged from the lots. “For the Nigeria electoral body, the reform should focus on financial and administrative aspects. The financial aspect should be designed to make the body more financially autonomous through funding from consolidated revenue fund. “The administrative should border on the appointment of the chairman of the body, I’m of the conviction that the position should be advertised for the best to be selected,” he said. He said although, the political process in the country had been improving, but good governance was still very far from the people and the culture. “Political parties are expected to be well structured to provide political mobilisation, education as well as aggregative functions, especially in a liberal democracy. “The import of political parties to democratic governance could be best understood in their functional attributes in democratic system, which includes political elite recruitment and political education and communication function,” he stressed. He, however, noted that the ‘bourgeosification’ of the Nigerian political process has manifested political behaviour which negate political equality, effective discharge of institutional functions, optimal and functional political participation on the part of the citizenry as well as fairness in the electoral process.