The Zimbabwean president’s son, a former first lady and 24 prominent
politicians are accused of abusing their positions to acquire loans
without collateral from a leading bank in the southern African
country, according to Observer.ug reports. The Commercial Bank of Zimbabwe (CBZ) says it has been forced to
assume debt totaling at least $160 million after Emmerson Mnangagwa
Jr., Grace Mugabe and others defaulted on loans made from 2010 to
2014. Zimbabwe’s government, overseeing the country’s worst economy in
a decade, has a 16% stake in CBZ. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network CBZ released a list of alleged defaulters this week. Most of those on
the list also allegedly defaulted on additional loans totaling $200
million from the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe — loans that must be covered
by taxpayers. Zimbabweans are struggling to cope with soaring prices
for food, medicine and other staples as wages fall and the government
cuts electricity for up to 18 hours a day to try to contain costs. Mnangagwa, whose father replaced longtime President Robert Mugabe in
late 2017, allegedly defaulted on a $400,000 loan from the commercial
bank. Grace Mugabe, who led the ruling Zanu-PF party’s women’s wing
and had indicated interest in the presidency for herself, is accused
of failing to repay $4.5 million to the bank. She is in Singapore with
her ailing husband and could not be reached for comment. But the younger Mnangagwa told VOA he owes nothing to CBZ. “I do not currently hold, or have held, an account with the Commercial
Bank of Zimbabwe, nor have I ever transacted with them,” he wrote in
an email Thursday. Other prominent alleged borrowers include Obert Mpofu, a former
Cabinet minister in the Zanu-PF; Ignatius Chombo, another former
Cabinet minister; Mabel Chinomona, former Senate president; and Job
Sikhala, a member of parliament and the only opposition member on the
list. Zimbabwe’s Education minister, Paul Mavhima, who borrowed $120,000
from CBZ, told VOA he had reached a repayment agreement with the bank. CBZ management has contracted with Tendai Biti, a former Finance
minister and vice president of the opposition Movement for Democratic
Change, to recover the debts. The opposition group is led by Nelson
Chamisa, runner-up to the elder Mnangagwa in last summer’s
presidential election. Biti confirmed to VOA’s Zimbabwe service that
he would work for the bank.