The long transfer saga surrounding Harry Maguire looks set to draw to a close, with Leicester City agreeing to sell the England international to Manchester United. A world-record fee for a defender has reportedly been agreed, worth around £80m, which will give Brendan Rodgers’ transfer kitty a significant boost ahead of the final days of the window. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Time is short to find a replacement though and the Foxes are expected to dip into the market to land a new recruit before next Thursday’s transfer window. But who could they add? Here’s the players that have been linked with a move to the King Power Stadium so far. Lewis Dunk
The Brighton defender is reportedly one of the dominoes that could fall in the saga of Maguire, which has been sparked in the Championship with Adam Webster’s imminent move from Bristol City to join the Seagulls. In turn, it’s been stated that Dunk will move to Leicester, allowing Maguire to move to United. The 27-year-old earned his first cap for England last year and has been a regular fixture for the Seagulls since their rise to the Premier League, captaining the side as well. James Tarkowski
Another England defender reportedly on City’s radar, James Tarkowski has earned a wealth of experience with Burnley and his performances for the Clarets have seen him linked with a move to some of the Premier League’s established top six. At 26-years-old, it is easy to see why Leicester believe Tarkowski can fill the void left by Maguire’s exit and the Foxes certainly have the finances to persuade Burnley into a deal. Christian Kabasele
At 28-years-old, Christian Kabasele will add further experience to a Leicester City side that is bursting with young talents and a partnership with Jonny Evans in the heart of defence would be a solid platform for Brendan Rodgers’ side to build upon in his first full season in charge. Capped twice by Belgium, Kabasele has made 65 appearances for Watford since moving to the Premier League in 2016 but his tally of 15 last term was his lowest in his three seasons in English football. Christian Kabasele of Watford chases down Harry Maguire of Leicester City during the Premier League match between Leicester City and Watford at The King Power Stadium (Image: Laurence Griffiths/Getty Images)
Djene Dakonam
Another player who has been linked with top-six sides this summer, including Arsenal, is Getafe defender Djene Dakonam – widely regarded to be one of the finest defenders in LaLiga outside of the established big three of Real Madrid, Barcelona and Atletico Madrid. With a reported price-tag of £18m, the Togo international is an affordable option for Leicester and, at 27-years-old, has the same sort of experience that Maguire offered. Bastos
One of the more recent players to be linked with a move to Leicester City, Lazio defender Bastos fits the sort of criteria that the Foxes seem to be looking for as, like many others on this list, he is 27-years-old. However, he does lack Premier League experience. In fact, excluding his three-years with Lazio, his time at top-level football has been extremely limited as he plied his trade in Russia and his native Angola before moving to Serie A. READ MORE
Leicester City agree to sell Harry Maguire to Manchester United Nathan Ake
Certainly the player on this list who would be the most expensive, Nathan Ake is widely regarded to be one of the finest defenders in the Premier League after excelling with Bournemouth, first on loan from Chelsea before making his move to the south coast permanent. Still just 24-years-old, the Netherlands international would strengthen Leicester’s defensive line for the long-term and would also present significant sell on value further down the line.