The Defence Headquarters has constituted a seven-man joint investigation panel to unravel the circumstances that led to the killing of three police personnel and a civilian by troops of Nigerian Army in Taraba. The Acting Director of Defence Information, Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Nwachukwu said that the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, constituted the panel on Friday in compliance with the presidential directive issued by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said that the panel which was headed by Rear Adm. I.T Olaiya, had a representative each from the Nigerian Army, Navy, Air Force, Police, Department of State Service and the Defence Intelligence Agency. According to him, the Joint Committee has commenced work immediately. NAN recalls that the police authorities had on Wednesday announced the killing of its personnel from the Force Headquarters on covert by the troops along Ibi-Wukari road in Taraba State. The police had alleged that the suspected kidnappers in custody of the attacked officers were released by the army troops. Army Headquarters, in reaction, described the incident as “unfortunate and avoidable” while explaining its own side of the story. The army had explained that the said army troops, while responding to a distress call to rescue a kidnapped victim, exchanged fire with the suspected kidnappers along Ibi-Wukari Road in the State. The police, in a counter reaction on Thursday, had raised a number of questions that the army authorities needed to unravel especially the whereabouts of the arrested suspected kidnapping kingpin, Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume. Meanwhile, the International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law (Intersociety), a civil society organisation, has criticised the recent killing. The Chairman of Board of Intersociety, Mr Emeka Umeagbalasi, made the criticism in a statement issued to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Enugu. Umeagbalasi noted that the group had resolved to continuously advocate for betterment of the society and its social forces including the military and the police; and insistence that ‘the right things must be done and at the right time’. “We deeply and sincerely condole the authorities of the Nigeria Police over the loss of three gallant personnel and a civilian in the hands of soldiers. “We also sympathise with others that were injured. “It has been our firm position that security forces and policing agencies must go for man-mental-machine (electronic) intelligence and securitisation approaches (or test) in matters of public security and policing in the country. “A knowledge and acculturation of same will drastically reduce human rights abuses which have now risen to industrial scale in the country,’’ he said. The chairman noted that “it is exceptionally commendable that the said kidnap kingpin was professionally arrested alive and unhurt before the murderous soldiers messed up the successful operation.”