The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has seized a 40 feet container stocked with substandard LPG cylinders worth over N38 million. Osita Aboloma , the Director General, SON, stated that these cylinders failed to meet the safety requirement and as such, poses threat to human lives and property in the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He stated the need to adhere strictly to standards when dealing in LPG gas cylinders cannot be over flogged. The Director General warned that it is highly dangerous to use cylinders of higher capacities like 12.5 kg and above as camping gas where burners are fitted on top of the cylinders. According to the SON boss represented by the Director, Compliance, SON, Engr. Obiora Manafa, cylinders above 6.25 kg capacities like 12.5 kg shall be fitted with 27mm valves (fitted with safety relief device) and piped to a burner via a hose and a regulator. In his words: “Having a cooking pot on top of cylinder as high as 12.5 kg stands the risk of tilting over. It is also highly dangerous to subject the high volume of LPG in a high volume capacity cylinder to heat from the cooker that is directly sitting on top of the cylinder.” He said only 3 kg, 5 kg and 6.25 kg cylinders are used for camping gas and fitted with camping valves, stressing that any cylinder above 6.25 kg used for camping shall be seized and destroyed. The Director General lamented many avoidable LPG cylinder explosions across the country which had led to wanton loss of lives and properties. He admonished those dealing in the LPG Gas Cylinder and accessories to endeavor to abide strictly by the safety requirements in the relevant Nigeria Industrial Standards, given the potential danger that the substandard cylinders can pose to lives and properties. He, however ,disclosed that efforts have been intensified to subject LPG Cylinders to Laboratory tests and analysis to confirm their conformity, stressing that if these cylinders fail critical safety parameters on construction, performance and markings they will be seized and destroyed.