ABUJA – There is a quiet rumble in the House of Representatives over what looks like an abuse of age-long traditions and precedence of the House, by the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, who disregarded the doctrine of ranking. Gbajabiamila dumped ranking members to field first timers as Heads and Deputies of Committees. The rumbling is not just from certain opposition party lawmakers and disgruntled lawmakers of the All progressives Congress (APC), but also from political elements and even watchers outside the legislature. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It is held that since the year 1999, when the country returned to civil and democratic rule with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in charge of governance, the doctrine of ranking membership has been religiously been respected in the nation’s legislature. To the contrary, Gbajabiamila, on Thursday July 25, 2019, broke the age-long tradition without apologies, when he announced the list of committees, chairmen and deputies, setting a totally new record. For him, this is a reform he is commencing in the House with more to come, and he cares nothing about who is hurt. Gbajabiamila had come out to state clearly on Wednesday, when he was received by the House of Representatives Press Corps under the leadership of Mrs Grace Ike, at the House Media Centre, that, “We have a lot of reforms we want you to support. We are going to hurt a lot of people in the process, but we must do the reforms.” Gbajabiamila sees his action as a desirable change, which of course, has now given the opportunity to first timers but fine breed and eloquent lawmakers to head committees, like Rt. Hon. Onoifiok Luke of Akwa Ibom State, who is immediate past Speaker of the state Assembly, an erudite politician per excellence, a fine lawyer, who is given to head the Federal Judiciary Committee of the House. Ordinarily, going by tradition, you would have certain undesirable members heading committees in the name of being ranking members, while more qualified lawmakers would be made to sit and watch. However, while this rejoices the heart of some, others see the Speakers action as a time bomb waiting to detonate. They are of the view that Gbajabiamila’s list of committees’ chairmanship was laced with so much vendetta. Several ranking members, both of opposition and ruling parties were either relegated to the background in the list, or got nothing at all. Lawmakers like Kingsley Chinda, Solomon Marene, Mark Gbilla, Rimamade Shawulu, Tajudeen Yusuf, Nkem Abonta among others, known big names from the PDP, who have always been around, were given nothing. They must now sit and watch new comers from PDP do the things they would have loved to do in the positions they would have loved to occupy. A lot of them also from the APC, like Jide Olatumbosun, are also victims The feelings were that all those perceived to have voted against the Lagos State politician were dumped, though not totally correct, because some of his opponents like Hon Umar Bago and John Dyegh, were given committees to head, but whether they love the committees or not, is a different ball game. Expectedly, Gbajabiamila’s henchmen got all the juicy committees Out of the 105 committees announced, 80 All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmakers were given committee chairmen, while PDP got 21 and other minority political parties got four. These were the words of Hon. Yusuf Gagdi, who briefed the press after the committees’ announcement on behalf of the House Ad Hoc Committee on Media and Publicity. For him, the leadership has been very magnanimous to the minority parties in the distribution of the committees. It appears that Gbajabiamila should be given some credit for attempting to be nice and running a different kind of system that is inclusive of all both from parties, class, tribal and religious divides, going from the arrangements noticed in his appointments of committees heads and deputies. One can say that it is not wrong to reform or do your own differently, perhaps this is what Gbajabiamila has chosen, as you may agree that he defied the position of his party’s leadership and gave committees to the opposition and those within the APC that could pass for rebels. Remember that the APC Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, had vowed that the opposition parties would not get any committee headship, except for that which was constitutionally given to minority, the Public Account Committee (PAC). Although some may measure Gbajabiamila’s action with those of his predecessors, the circumstances must also not be forgotten in a hurry, which perhaps informed the aborted directives of Adams Oshiomhole on the committees sharing. In the National Assembly of tody, it could well be said that this is the first time the APC is in charge and going by the action of Gbajabiamila, one could now judge between the APC and PDP administrations in the House of Representatives. It may not suffice to judge Gbajabiamila with Aminu Tambuwal or Yakubu Dogara’s era, considering their mixed blood, but one could consider comparing the current House with those that ended with Dimeji Bankole and the beginning of Tambuwal before he defected to the APC with the Speakership crown of the PDP.