Sir Malachi Nwajiaku, factional Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Lagos State, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the current crisis in the party and various moves to resolve it, even as he added his voice to the appointment of ministers by President Muhammadu Buhari, as well as insecurity in the nation. Excerpt: Could you tell us your political antecedent? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I hail from Ukpor in Nnewi South Local Government Area of Anambra State. I have been a stakeholder in the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). I have held offices in the state chapter of the party in Lagos. These include the office of Assistant Treasurer and Treasurer. I am the immediate Vice Chairman of the State’s Screening Committee and a delegate to the National Conventions for several times. During a recent congress of the party in Lagos in May this year, I emerged as the party’s state chairman in Lagos. The congress was held at the party’s secretariat, witnessed by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agents. Are you aware of the existence of another executive of the party led by Rotarian Chibuikem Iwu, the party’s one-time Secretary in Lagos State? Party positions are given by procedure. One cannot come from the backdoor and become a chairman of a party when he is not a member of any local government or state executive. Besides, party positions are got through congress. What is the state of APGA in Lagos State and at the national level? Before now, APGA has been in an intensive care but now men of goodwill are coming together to breathe life into the party in Lagos. We don’t want APGA to die in Lagos. That is how I became involved in the paty’s leadership in Lagos. Coming to the national level, presently, APGA has the problem of leadership. This prompted the Federal High Court in Kale, Delta State and Federal High Court, FCT, Abuja, to nullify all decisions taken by the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party for the purpose of the party’s scheduled convention, through which a national leadership would have emerged. However, there was a convention in Owerri, the Imo State capital that produced Dozie Njoku as the National Chairman. But, there are still some legal issues which I will not like to comment on to allow the judicial process not to be disturbed. From what you just said, the party is still in court. What are the issues in contention? This is an interesting question. First, our then chairman, Barrister Kayode Alabi, was wrongfully replaced contrary to the party’s constitution. Through his leadership, the party in Lagos wrote several letters to the National Working Committee (NWC), the NEC and the Board of Trustees (BoT) Chairman, Governor Willie Obiano, in respect of the wrongful removal. As loyal members of the party, after exhausting all the constitutional requirements, having complied fully with the party’s internal dispute mechanisms, we have no option than to go to court. We have evidence that all letters to the NWC, NEC and BoT were received as they were delivered through DHL. It was the removal of the then chairman, Barrister Alabi, without notification of allegations against him, and not being invited to any disciplinary committee and given an opportunity for fair hearing to defend himself that made the issue to be taken to court. He was not formally notified of any allegation against him. If anybody has contrary evidence, let such a person come up with it. What efforts are being made to resolve the current crisis within the party? For now, it appears that there are moves to address those issues in contention. Several meetings and consultations are going on within the party’s hierarchy. Hopefully, the party’s leadership will come up with an amicable resolution of the issues concerning the leadership crisis nationally, because it is not only in Lagos that APGA has issues. APGA has always been in crises. When and how do you think the party would know peace? First, political party process is more or less about conflict resolutions. All political parties have one problem or the other. So, party crisis is not only in APGA. PDP, APC and others have their own problems. As we are talking, APC has problems in Edo, Bauchi, Rivers, Zamfara, Imo, Kogi, Bayelsa. So, there is nothing unusual about party crisis in APGA. But, a party must have internal mechanism to resolve crisis when such comes. If not, such a party will die a natural death. We are praying that APGA will not die, but that the issues will be resolved. We are looking for a broad-based approach to resolve the issues, not exclusiveness. There must be an all-inclusive approach to crises resolution, eschewing arrogance and winner-takes-all attitude. Would you say the party will be able to put its house in order to be able to get ready for the 2023 general elections? Before 2023, we will have the Anambra governorship election, which will come up in 2021. That election will be a litmus test for APGA. With the ability of the party hierarchy to resolving the present crisis and with the expected victory in Anambra in 2021, APGA will surely bounce back to a comfortable position as a leading political party in Nigeria. For the 2019 elections, APGA won seats in Benue, Kogi, Taraba, Bayelsa, Imo, Abia States. So, we are hopeful that come 2023 general elections, APGA will come top at various levels, both at states and national levels. APGA is a national party. So, we expect to reap better electoral fortunes in 2023. What is your take on the new ministers which the Senate recently screened and confirmed for President Muhammadu Buhari? Based on what we see, Buhari’s ministers are a band of recycled hands. There are no well-known technocrats or fresh hands and youths who can jumpstart economic development. We need people with fresh ideas which the tired hands we saw on the list that have been screened and confirmed by the Senate, cannot provide. Buhari did not search well for the best. This set of ministers is an embarrassment to Nigeria. With the high unemployment rate, insecurity, economic crisis, corruption, we thought that Nigeria deserves better than what Buhari has given us as ministers. How do you see the state of insecurity in the country and how it could be checked? The insecurity situation in the country is alarming. But, government should not see the people they rule as an opposition. Government should reach out to every aggrieved section or group and listen to them and see how they can interface. This will be a stepping stone to curbing insecurity in Nigeria. Coercion is not an effective mechanism to settle socio-economic issues. Government should use more carrots than stick. Since several northern states welcome Ruga, government should give them the opportunity to establish such in the north. But, it should not be mandatory in the South. Government should review its socio-economic policies by creating employment opportunities and enabling environment to empower the people. These will check killings, kidnapping and banditry. Government should endevour to reduce crime. I believe that creation of state police, which should be well supervised by the federal police, will help to check crime.