Lagos – The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Tuesday confirmed that Akinwunmi Ambode, former governor of Lagos State, is currently under investigation over the management of the finances of the state during his tenure in office. While stating that it was acting in line with the rule of law in carrying out the investigation, the commission denied the report that it raided the residence of Ambode who governed Lagos State between 2015 and 2019. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In a statement by EFCC’s spokesman, Tony Orilade, the anti-graft agency said: “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has since the early hours of today (Tuesday) been inundated with calls that operatives of the commission raided the residence of the former governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode. “We need to state for the records that the EFCC did not raid Ambode’s house. It is instructive that his administration, like other former governors, is under investigation since they no longer constitutionally enjoy immunity against prosecution. “The commission hereby states with high sense of responsibility that the operatives did not raid Ambode’s residence. “Whatever the commission is presently doing with regards to the investigation is in line with its mandate and the rule of law. “We wish to inform the social media to be circumspect in the reportage of any news with regards to investigation activities of the commission. “As a tradition, the commission does not carry out investigation on the pages of the newspapers or through the media. Our operations are always covert until at a time when we file charges in court.” In response, Ambode, in a statement by his media aide, Habib Aruna, confirmed that his residences in Epe and Parkview, Ikoyi, were searched by EFCC operatives. He, however, said there was no cause for alarm. While urging his supporters and the general public to remain calm and law-abiding, Ambode said the EFCC officials conducted the search without any incident. He said the commission, till date, had not opened any direct communication with him on any issue, adding that he was ready and willing to respond if or when they do so. The statement reads: “This morning, operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission visited the Epe country home and Parkview Ikoyi residence of Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, former governor of Lagos State, with warrants to conduct a search. These searches were carried out extensively and at the end of the exercise the operatives left without any incident. “The former governor reiterates that the EFCC has till date not had any direct communication with him on any subject matter whatsoever and if or when it occurs he is ready and willing to respond. “The former governor wishes to assure his supporters and the generality of Lagosians to continue to remain calm and law-abiding as there is no cause for alarm.” The former governor restated his belief in the rule of law and due process, saying he was grateful for the opportunity to have served Lagos State diligently and conscientiously. It would be recalled that Ambode, in an earlier response to allegations by the EFCC that it had frozen certain accounts linked to him, insisted that no account of his contained N9.9 billion let alone being frozen by the commission as those accounts were opened and operated by the Lagos State government. In videos that surfaced online, some residents came out in solidarity with the former governor and resisted the entry of the security operatives. Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of Transport, on Tuesday condemned the raid by officials of the EFCC on Ambode’s residences. In a chat with Daily Independent, Babatope, a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who said he was in total sympathy with the former governor, added that having been denied a second term and ministerial position, Ambode had been sufficiently punished and should be allowed to move on with his life. “Honestly, I don’t understand this criminal rope on the freedom of individuals in our democracy. What has Ambode done to them? “Having denied him governorship and ministerial positions, why can’t they allow him move on with his life? “What has he done that they are witch-hunting him?  I am in total sympathy with Ambode even though I don’t know him from Adam. “I think they have punished him sufficiently and they should allow him to go and enjoy the remaining part of his life,” he said. Meanwhile, EFCC tried implicating Ambode with some foreign currencies on Tuesday, according to some lawyers. Operatives of the anti-graft agency had invaded the Epe residence of the ex-governor on Tuesday. In a statement, Fatai Adebanjo, Busari Olanrewaju and Samson Okuneye, all lawyers, said they stood their ground and resisted pressure from the agency. Tony Orilade, spokesman of the agency, had said the operation was part of investigation of the former governor. But Ambode later said the EFCC had not told him he was being investigated. The lawyers said officials of the commission initially told them that they would go into the house alone but they did not allow that happen. “At early hours of today, we were duly briefed that some officers of the EFCC invaded the apartment of the former governor of Lagos State, His Excellency Akinwunmi Ambode, with the intention to search the premises,” they said. “We got to the scene and met with the officials of the EFCC to inquire whether they have a search warrant to search the premises of the ex-governor. “Having confirmed the search warrant, the EFCC officials told us that nobody will follow them in as they will only go in alone. We resisted as young lawyers and stated expressly that the principle of search is that the owner of the premises or his representatives must be present to observe the search. “They succumbed to our superior argument and allowed us and the people who have the key to the ex-governor’s house into the apartment with them. Before they entered, we searched all the officials of the EFCC who intended to go in to effect the search. “There was a blue bag which they were holding with them, we requested to see the content of the bag before they could take it in. They got angry and said we cannot see the content. Having said that, we strongly resisted them to take it in since they can’t allow us to see it, which they later agreed. We later got to know that the bag contained foreign currencies which they brought to plant in the house of the ex-governor to incriminate him.” The lawyers narrated how they handed over their phones to the EFCC team led by Rotimi Oyedepo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). “It is important to inform the public that before they entered the house, we all submitted our phones to them as they requested that the only person required to go in with phone is one of them who will record the whole process,” they said. “Flowing from the aforesaid, they searched the nooks and crannies of the ex-governor’s house and they couldn’t find any incriminating documents or materials. We authoritatively assert that, they did not find anything in the house and they didn’t leave the house with anything. “We followed them as they entered from one place to the other, when our presence was intimidating them, they said we should sit down while they will do the search. We resisted that we must follow them to observe every of their activities in the premises. “To our greatest consternation, the officials of EFCC led by Rotimi Oyedepo, Esq held on to our phones and told us to follow them to their office in Ikoyi to get our phones. All efforts to get back our phones was abortive as the EFCC officials led by Rotimi Oyedepo, Esq rushed into their white Hiace bus with our phones and instructed that since we have resisted their efforts to take ‘the said blue bag’ into the main premises of the ex-governor, they will hold on to the phone. Thus, almost six phones were forcefully taken away, iPhones inclusive. “It is our happiness as young lawyers in Epe to be part of the process to legally and successfully resist the EFCC from incriminating the ex-governor with the blue bag they brought with them from an unknown destination, and we also compelled them to conduct the search within the ambit of the law. Hence, the success.”