ADEBAYO ADISA Powered by RubiQube Ad Network IBADAN – The Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria, Oyo State Chapter, Pastor Benjamin Akanmu has advised the Minister of Youths and Sports, Mr. Sunday Dare to face the new challenge with much caution and never allow it to stain or destroy the reputation he has built over the years. As the CAN boss congratulated him on his appointment, he also counseled him to re-position the sector as well fashion out strategies for youth development. CAN in a statement by the State Chairman, Pastor Benjamin Akanmu, stated, “On behalf of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Oyo State Chapter and the entire Christians in the State, I am pleased to congratulate you on your appointment as the Honourable Minister for Youths and Sports. We rejoiced with you as a God’s representative in the Buhari’s administration. “Having acknowledged professional sagacity, good quality and competency of the new minister, without any doubt, we are proud of your achievements, you are a professional per excellence. “However, we should not fail to admit the sensitivity and delicacy of the Sports Ministry, considering atrocities and unending controversies which most of the federations and agencies under it are known for. “We know and you also know that God has been kind and marvelous to you ever before your appointment as a Minister, my advice is for you to see this appointment as payback period. A period you will render to God acceptable service; service without defect, holy and worthy, a period you will take the good news of our Lord Jesus Christ to political office. “Salt and light are useful only when they are in the right place fulfilling their functions of giving taste, conserving, revealing, and giving direction. God is looking for people he can use as his vessels to reach out to the perishing world. He has called and assigned you for that purpose. “There is no doubt that your being given the sports ministry has divine purpose, there is no other of your equals that can handle that position. Sports Ministry is one of the strategic areas of influence that God wants his children to bear Christ’s testimony, you are not there by accident but it has been predetermined by the God Almighty. “I want you to always remember that political involvement can become an end in itself instead of a means to an end. People who are not well-grounded in Christ can easily fall when faced with temptation. Christian politicians become prime targets of the enemy because they are directly involved in an area that has been the devil’s domain. Note that, light coming into this sphere of darkness will be noticed and reacted against. “Politics demands a lot of work and may influence family relations. Evil companionship corrupts good manners. Be careful with whom you relate closely with. Daniel prayed three times a day. Pray for God’s wisdom and guidance. Politics is like a minefield. Prayer will give you the spiritual glasses and discernment needed to know where to step on.” Meanwhile, Pastor Akanmu advised Christians all over Nigeria to appreciate, encourage, and support Christian politicians around them, warning against putting unnecessary pressure on political appointees.