UYO – The 2019 general elections in Nigeria may have come and gone, winners emerged, now enjoying very refreshing moments in their various offices, and first runners’ up battling to over-take in court, but the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Akwa ibom State, Mike Igini, has remained in the centre of harsh criticism. Despite his well reported integrity, which resulted in widespread jubilation for lovers of credibility the moment his deployment to the state was announced, many believed victory for the just concluded elections was ordained and Igini, judging from the utterances and publications sponsored by some who couldn’t sail through, failed to deliver the election in line with the ordination. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network This has unfortunately led to his hitherto well reported reputation, being maligned by certain political parties and groups whose candidates could not emerge at the poll. What is now reported of Igini runs in contrast with what Obong Victor Attah, former Governor of Akwa Ibom State said of Igini during a stakeholders meeting on the 6th August 2018. His words “Mike, your integrity and commitment to the conduct of proper election are qualities that are well known and acknowledged in and out of this country, I urge you, for the survival of democracy to bring those qualities to bear on the conduct of the next set of election in Akwa Ibom State. “My goodwill message to this meeting, as an elder statesman who has committed everything to the development of this state, is that you make it abundantly clear to all Akwa Ibom people that whatever evil may have attended our electoral practices in the past is now history from now on, whoever occupies an elected office will only do so at the will of the majority of the people. The sanctity of the ballot box must be maintained as the doctrine of one man/woman one vote will be scrupulously applied.” Recall that Igini’s posting to Akwa Ibom State elicited mixed feelings among the people. While a section of the people were excited that he would bring the level of credibility he exhibited in Calabar, Cross River State to bear in the conduct of the 2019 general elections in the state, others expressed the fears that his impenetrable personality would not allow ‘real politicians’ to have their way. Just as expected, Igini came tough, talked tough and acted tough as though he had no prior brief of the political bigwigs in the state. At every forum, he would drum it into the ears of those who cared to listen that he was in Akwa Ibom State to conduct a free, fair and credible election where the voters will decide the winners and losers.  At no point did he mince words on this incontrovertible fact. He was on many occasion quoted thus; “I came to Akwa Ibom to count votes, not money, so do not even try to buy me with your money. Go to the field and work; be popular among your people because only the wish of the generality of Akwa Ibom people will count. No amount of intimidation can deter me, we must do the right thing.” For reasons speculatively attributed to inability, the certain group or political party to penetrate Igini and convince him to do their biddings, members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in February 2019, embarked on a protest to call for Igini’s transfer from the state. Addressing the protesters, State Chairman of APC, Mr. Ini Okopido alleged that his party would not have a level playing field with him (igini) superintending the conduct of the elections in the state. He claimed to have copious evidence to show that the REC has been romancing with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), accusing him of handing over uncollected Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to the officials of the state government. Responding, Igini described the allegations as baseless, saying the Commission would give all the parties equal opportunity to test their popularity at the polls. “The allegation by APC is nonsense. How do I have a meeting with the people I have never met in my life? Where was the meeting held? They should go and organise their affairs. In this election, nobody will write results at home. I will give all the parties a level playing ground and nobody would truncate the wishes of the people of Akwa Ibom State. Their votes must count,” he said It could be recalled that apart from a few areas where materials were reportedly hijacked, leading to cancellation of results from such areas, the 2019 general election sure provided a level playing field for even the aged and infirm to operate with ease. Reacting to the conduct of the election few days to the swearing in, precisely on May 24, 2019, former governor Attah reaffirmed his faith in the integrity of Igini, declaring, “It has never happened in such a long time in the state that the electoral process and power was returned to the people. The results of the just concluded elections represented the wish of the people, for me it wasn’t about any political party, it was about the people, and the results have proven their positions. “I therefore want to once again commend the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr. Mike Igini for remaining a man of integrity and for remaining an unbiased umpire, I applaud him for returning power to Akwa Ibom people, no single political party should try to take credit for this one. The atmosphere was calm so that even I was able to vote in peace. In 2015, I could not vote,” he said. But the campaigns preceding the elections from those who could not make it at the polls suggest otherwise. Apart from challenging the outcome of the governorship, National Assembly and state House of Assembly elections at the tribunal, candidates who could not make it and their supporters have continued to blame their woes on Igini. Reacting to the many sharp voices against Igini, Mr. Don Etukudo, Public Affairs Officer, INEC, Akwa Ibom State, in an article titled, ‘MEDIA CAMPAIGN AGAINST IGINI AS A STRATEGY FOR WINNING AT THE TRIBUNAL’, said,  “The Independent National Electoral Commission, Akwa Ibom State, has refused to be drawn into making comments or reacting to unbalanced reportage of the proceedings of the Election Petition Tribunal. Conscious of its status as an umpire, INEC is only interested in the justice of the matters before the tribunal. It is only there to explain how it conducted the elections in the state. The Commission is aware too, that commenting on matters that are currently being adjudicated upon is wrong. “On these premises therefore, INEC has chosen to ignore skewed reportage, sometimes outright fabrications spewed out by media hacks and hirelings or even ignorant ‘citizen journalists’ who, even without understanding the issues, must break the news of ‘who has won in the tribunal today’. In spite of this resolve not to join issues with anyone, the Commission wishes to note that the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the APC and Sen. Akpabio had since identified Igini as the man they must demonise if they are to win their cases at the tribunal. Just as they saw his removal from the state as the only way they could win the 2019 elections, their current thinking seems to be that if Igini is abused, maligned, vilified and scandalised enough, the tribunal would award them ‘their mandate’, no matter the strength or weakness of their petitions. And so media mercenaries are hired and paid to pick snippets from tribunal proceedings, twist and convulse the narrative to portray Igini as a villain and plant the retches online and pliable media houses. “First, it was that INEC was withholding election materials ordered to be released to them by the tribunal. Now, it is that Igini instructed the Collation Officer to cancel their votes in Essien Udim. Media spaces are bought, spurious audio and video recordings are procured, doctored and splashed on social media to promote these falsehood. What we don’t understand is, if, as it is their constitutional right to do, they have taken the matters to the tribunal, why are they busy playing the victim card in the media instead of concentrating their energies and resources in proving their cases at the tribunal?” The commission, however, assured that it has a clear conscience, convinced that it did its best to give the Akwa Ibom people the opportunity to elect their leaders according to the law. “If they were capable of reasoning, we would have advised that rather than dissipate their energies in whining and waging a futile media campaign against Igini, they should invest their exertions at the tribunal where they can reclaim ‘their mandate’. We need not waste our saliva (ink). The public should note that whereas the Commission is aware of the vile media campaign against it, it has chosen, for reasons earlier stated, to maintain a dignified silence.