ABUJA – Mr Ephraim Anjembe Terkula, a middle level staff of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) Information Department has been diagnosed with liver disease and needs N30 million naira to get medical treatment at a health facility in the United Kingdom. The wife of the affected NAFDAC staff, Mrs Christiana Anjembe disclosed this to newsmen in Abuja, while calling on well -meaning Nigerians to come to her husband’s rescue to live again. According to her, “the health challenge started sometimes last years and we have been managing it privately. I have to appeal for public support because that was the last option as the family cannot afford to raise N30 million for his medical treatment abroad.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mrs Anjembe reiterated that: “My husband has dedicated most of his life to the fight against drug counterfeiting at the agency over a period of 18 years. According to her, “He is currently having a health challenge that is affecting his liver and also threating his life. The doctors, who have been managing his health challenge for over a year now have come to the conclusion that he has to be referred to the United Kingdom where another consultant has been arranged to start treatment for him. “Right now, what is required is about N30 million including the cost of treatment and airfare in order to save the life of my husband. We wanted to manage our affairs privately but it is getting out of hand, hence, we decided to call on Nigerians- Good Samaritans, especially in the industry where my husband has contributed meaningfully, always in the forefront of fighting counterfeit drugs, especially, in the pharmaceutical and food industry which NAFDAC works closely with and other well-meaning Nigerians to come to the rescue of my husband.” While appealing for assistance, she said: “I also appeal to the Director General of NAFDAC to also come to the rescue. So, with team spirit, whatever NAFDAC can marshal out and also what the members of the general public can augment so that the life of my husband can be safe will be appreciated. Please, Nigerians, I beg of you, my husband has been serving Nigerians fighting counterfeit drugs, helping to safeguard public health. This is the hour that he needs the help of Nigerians