Executives of Agricbusiness and fertilizer suppliers will gather at a conference to trade agricultural inputs and discuss investment, partnership, and innovation across the African supply chain. The conference is collaboration between CRU and the African Fertilizer and Agribusiness Partnership (AFAP). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The premier fertilizer marketplace will hold at Cape Town International Convention Centre from October 1-3, 2019. The three-day conference is now established in the fertilizer trading calendar and is highly respected by those working in the region for the quality of the agenda and premium networking. The CRU Africa Fertilizer Agribusiness conferences regularly attract more than 300 attendees, including senior executives from the international fertilizer supply chain and key stakeholders in African agribusiness. Omri Van Zyl, Executive Director, Agri SA is the voice of 28,000 commercial farmers across South Africa and will give the keynote presentation. He is joined on the agenda by other well-known thought-leaders and strategists in the African agriculture sector such as Dr. John Purchase, CEO, Agricultural Business Chamber (Agbiz) and Frans du Plessis, Managing Director of GWK AGRI. Ma’aden is the conference’s lead sponsor and the global fertilizer supply chain is once again sending senior representatives to conduct meetings with traders and distributors. Companies such as Arab Potash, Dangote Industries, Evergrow, OCP Africa, Omnia, PhosAgro, Sabic, Sirius Minerals, Toyota Tshusho and many more, have already confirmed their participation. The conference is officially endorsed by the Western Cape Government – Agriculture Department, and WESGRO, plus key industry associations such as: FERTASA, the Agrodealers Association of South Africa (ADASA), and the International Fertilizer Association (IFA). The conference will be opened by Her Excellency Rhoda Peace Tumusiime, Former Commissioner for Rural Economy and Agriculture at The African Union. Policymakers from across Africa, representatives of SME hub agrodealers from across the continent, and SME farmers from the Western Cape will be sponsored to attend, courtesy of our partners AFAP, and the support of the Western Cape Department of Agriculture. Tom Willatt, Portfolio Director at CRU Events said: “We are delighted to be working so closely with key industry partners, and it will help ensure the discussions meet the needs of the whole sector, whether they are smallholder farmers, large commercial agribusinesses, fertilizer producers, or policymakers from across Africa. I am sure the 2019 conference will build on all of the excellent connections and discussions started at our previous events”.