Gbenga Soloki is the National President, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR). In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, he cleared the air on the purported factionalisation within the organisation and revealed what the CDHR has been doing in the past years. He also spoke on other trending national issues ranging from the arrest and detention of Omoyele Sowore, the convener of #RevolutionNow. Excerpts: Before now, the CDHR is known to be very vocal when it comes to issues of national interest, especially those relating to human rights but at some point, the organisation seems to have gone into oblivion. What exactly went wrong? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Actually, I will not agree with the position that the CDHR has gone into oblivion. We have an organisation that is still waxing stronger, it is just that the dynamics have really changed. Before the advent of this democratic dispensation, we had a military government in place and the battle for the enthronement of democracy bestowed responsibility on our organisation and several others and we played a pivotal role in the process. So, we were very vocal at that point in time. We have fought for democracy; democracy is in place now even though we have not fully attained a proper democratic system, we are watching the actors who are participating in the democratic process. It is twenty years of democratic system of government and we have always been there to point out where we feel the government has and has not done well. Our branches are growing because during the military era, we had less than ten branches but now we have about 20 branches scattered all over the six geo-political zones across the country, so we have presence everywhere. Like I said earlier, the dynamics have changed, but we are also meeting up with the daily requests for fundamental rights of Nigerians. As I talk to you, our units’ secretaries and coordinators are going round the police stations and courts across the country; we are also visiting prison yards to ascertain that Nigerians who are unjustly detained are being released and their rights are being restored. It is just that we don’t make much noise about the works we do now. Meanwhile, few years ago, we had an intra-organisation dispute, which actually affected our operations but that is not to say the CDHR has gone into oblivion. You just mentioned now that the organisation had an internal crisis few years ago, was it this crisis that led to the factionalisation of the group? I wouldn’t want to say we are factionalised. Yes we have internal wrangling because of ideological differences and because the organisation is ideological based, the way we approach issues is likely to differ. What happened was that early in 2017, we had the national council meeting where issues were discussed but along the line, there were some people who felt we should do things the other way while some of us felt it shouldn’t be done that way, so at that point we had a sharp disagreement. We are being cautious to use the word faction because the sole objective of the organisation is more important to some of us than any dispute that might have arisen. Yes there are differences in our system of operations but we have not allowed ourselves to be taken away from the goals and objectives of the organisation. Whatever we do, we also have at the back of our minds that the organisation is supreme. But there is also this allegation that some you leaders of the CDHR are romancing politicians as against the objective of the organisation. How would you defend this allegation? Personally I will say that we are all political animals. Once it is not the organisation that is taking a political decision, as an individual, I have a right to my political choice. Every leader has a right to aspire or to also be somewhere, but we should not under any guise drag the organisation into it because the CDHR is apolitical. I believe all our leaders including myself have a right to align politically but we will never drag the organisation into politics. We have a historical duty to Nigerians and that is where we have focused, what we have is not a political platform but a human rights platform. Talking about human rights, the present administration as led by President Muhammadu Buhari has severally been accused of human rights violation, disregard for the Rule of Law. Take for instance, the issue of Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, Sambo Dasuki and recently Omoyele Sowore, who was arrested and kept in detention for more than twenty-four hours before being charged to court. How would you rate this administration when it comes to respect for human rights? My rating may not be correct but the fact remains that with the present structure in Nigeria, there is no government that will come on board and will not impugn on the rights of Nigerians and I will tell you why. Nigerian president is the most powerful president in the world. Quote me anywhere. He appoints whomever he pleases as the Inspector General of Police, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Director-General of DSS and so on, subject to the confirmation of the Senate. Fortunately for us, we have a case at hand. Ibrahim Magu has not been confirmed as chairman of the EFCC, he is still acting till today. So when I say Nigeria president is the most powerful in the world, you will understand what I am saying. There is this popular saying that ‘he who pays the piper dictates the tune’. What we have at our hand at the moment is a very delicate situation. As a people, we have to look at our constitution to take away some powers from Mr. President. How can the president appoint a chief judge and you expect that judge to be neutral in a case involving the president? So it is not about this regime, it is about the system on ground and our constitution. But in specific and clear terms, this government has not done well in the area of human rights. I was taken aback while watching the screening of Abubakar Malami, the former Attorney General, when he said he chose not to obey some court orders in the interest of Nigerians, where does he get that power? Is it from the constitution or from the executive order for him to now say he will choose a court order to obey? That is scandalous. But that is not to say we condone illegality on the part of El-Zakzaky. I had the opportunity of visiting Kaduna about fifteen years ago, and the shenanigans that goes on where this man was living is outrageous. The place is like a country on its own; they have their laws, they have their police and the rest but that is not to say when a court of competent jurisdiction gives a pronouncement, you should not obey it. In the case of Omoyele Sowore, I want to believe that the man has the right to ventilate his disappointment and it is for the government to also listen to those who are agitating. I believe we want to progress democratically and if we want to do that, we have to assimilate criticisms. Yes people are talking about revolution, but revolution may be violent and may not be violent. Are we holding Sowore for his action or intention? The DSS is just being unnecessarily overzealous, they could have allowed the process to go on undisturbed but as you can see, they are promoting the revolution call more than necessary, it is what has been in the news since Monday. If he has been allowed to go out with his crowd, by now the protest would have fizzled because Nigerians don’t have that time for long protests. Even the Nigerian Labour Congress will call for protests and by the third day, it would come to an abrupt end. The current security situation in the country has become a source of concern for many Nigerians. Few days ago, Prof. Wole Soyinka called for a declaration of state of emergency on the nation’s security. While some have also called for the sack of security chiefs, others have called for the creation of state police. In your own view, which of these do you think will address insecurity in Nigeria? First and foremost, I am of the opinion that the service chiefs are overwhelmed, they are grossly incompetent and they should be relieved of their jobs. We have service chiefs that would want to go to Baga tomorrow and will come on air to say ‘we are going to Baga tomorrow’, that is not how security is done. Now, we have a very delicate situation at hand, the Boko Haram insurgence has been ravaging this country before the advent of this administration, but how have we been able to handle it? Our equipment are obsolete; our officers are not well remunerated, they are not well taken care of. If you see them working, they are not happy. What arrangements do we have for these officers if they die in the line of duty? Our intelligence gathering is zero. What happened in Taraba State recently, shows that there is no synergy between the police and the army and this is very unfortunate. Soloki