Akure – With the Ondo State governorship election set to hold in 2020, strategies are now being put in place towards giving a boost to the second term ambition of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. Throwing their backing for the governor’s second term bid were a group of supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC), under the aegis of Coalition of Like Minds. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Members of the group, who paid Sallah homage to Ade Adetimehin, the state APC chairman, emphasised that the unprecedented strides of Akeredolu in the area of infrastructural development in the state is a conviction that if given a chance for a second term, the state will benefit more. Igbekele Akinrinwa, chairman of the group who led APC chieftains from Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency area of Ondo State during the visit on Tuesday, lauded the Adetimehin-led state executives for the maximum support given to Akeredolu. Akinrinwa, who appealed to other party faithful to rally round the governor for the 2020 mandate, stressed that his achievements in the past two years in his first term are proofs of what to expect in subsequent years. On his own part, Zackariah Omoge, APC Chairman, Irele Local Government, stated that the aim of the group is to contribute its quota positively to the progress of APC in the state. He added that via the platform, it will enable everyone brainstorm, as well as galvanise result-oriented ideals for onward transmission of suggestions to leaders of the party for consideration and probable implementation. Also, Sola Ebire, the group’s secretary, expressed optimism that the candidates of the party will emerge victorious at Appeal Court following the recent ruling National and State House of Assembly Election delivered in favour of the party. He noted that the support of the party shown towards the candidates is unquantifiable during the proceedings, maintaining that such solidarity is still being look forward to. “During the periods of proceedings in Ondo State election petition tribunal sitting, the party candidate for House of Representatives, Okitipupa/Irele federal constituency, Albert Akintoye, a member of the coalition was declared winner in a unanimous judgment by the tribunal judges. We shall continuously look forward to the usual rekindling of the support which APC leaders gave to Akintoye right from inception. “The group seizes this opportunity to pledge our loyalty and dedication to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and our party leaders in Ondo State.”