European Union leaders now believe that Britain crashing out of the bloc without a deal on 31 October is the most likely Brexit scenario, according to reports. A senior EU diplomat quoted by The Daily Telegraph and The Guardian said that Brussels is operating on a “working hypothesis of no-deal”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network European Union leaders now believe that Britain crashing out of the bloc without a deal on 31 October is the most likely Brexit scenario, according to reports. A senior EU diplomat quoted by The Daily Telegraph and The Guardian said that Brussels is operating on a “working hypothesis of no-deal”. Many senior Leave supporters think that no deal “would be perfectly acceptable as long as sufficient preparations have been made”, according to the BBC’s Chris Morris. Backbench Brexiteers have sought to present a so-called “cliff edge” Brexit as an opportunity rather than a threat, and have dismissed claims to the contrary as Remainer scaremongering. “It’s Project Fear mark two,” one MP told The Guardian. “Do they think we can’t see that they’re trying to alarm people?” Liz Bilney, CEO of Leave.EU, argues that a no-deal Brexit should be seen as a positive. “It is at worst, benign, at best, a fabulous opportunity for a fairer, more prosperous Britain,” she claims. Former Brexit secretary David Davis says there might even be advantages if the pound were to fall sharply in value following a no-deal exit. “The pound’s always been too high from the point of view of industry because of the effect of the City. So our competitive position with vis-a-vis Europe would be dramatically better even if there are tariffs,” he told parliamentary magazine The House. Others argue that leaving without an agreement would have disastrous consequences for businesses, create chaos at the borders, drive up food prices and lead to a shortage of essential goods. Health Secretary Matt Hancock has warned medical drug companies to expect six months of “significantly reduced access” to the main trade routes between Britain and Continental Europe if there is a no-deal Brexit. In a damning report, Kent County Council also warned about the potential effect on key services. “Bodies may remain uncollected and children might miss exams due to gridlocked roads in the event of a no-deal Brexit”, the report said. Refuse could be left outside homes and food deliveries be disrupted as the county copes with 10,000 lorries clogging up its roads, the council added. A government spokesperson said support would be provided to local authorities. Former attorney general Dominic Grieve, a leading Conservative Remainer, has warned that a no-deal Brexit would be “absolutely catastrophic” for the UK. “We’ve got to be realistic about this,” he told Sky News. “We will be in a state of emergency.” A number of business leaders have voiced similar fears, with Amazon UK chief Doug Gurr predicting that Britain will descend into “civil unrest” within weeks if it leaves the EU with no trade deal in place. “Despite Brexiteer claims, this is not a rerun of ‘Project Fear’,” says an editorial in the Financial Times. “Leaving the EU without formal agreements would result in instant, harsh consequences.” No-deal Brexit is still the default outcome if MPs cannot agree anything else and there are no further extensions beyond 31 October. Commons Speaker John Bercow has said that just because no-deal is the default position in law, it is not inevitable, and is insisting that Parliament must have a final say. MPs have already voted to block such a move, although this was non-binding. Nevertheless, Bercow has said: “There is a difference between a legal default position and what the interplay of different political forces in Parliament will facilitate.” If a formal withdrawal treaty has not been ratified by this point, however, all EU rules and regulations will instantly cease to apply to the UK. This means there will be no remaining agreements between Britain and the EU on how to manage customs, trade, travel or citizens rights. A no-deal Brexit also means that the transition period – designed to give businesses and organisations additional time to respond to the changes – would be off the table. Without a bilateral trade deal with the EU, Britain would be subject to World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. UK exports would face the same customs checks and tariffs as other countries outside of the EU. Experts agree that the overnight end of frictionless zero-tariff trade would be likely to increase the price of some goods, lead to shortages and cause significant delays on both sides of the Channel. Leaked research carried out by the UK’s own Brexit department suggests that without deals on customs and trade, parts of Britain would run out of food and even medicines within a fortnight of the present agreements lapsing, according to an editorial last year in The Guardian. “And that is not the worst possible scenario: it is one that lies in the middle of the range of possibilities,” the newspaper adds. However, the Government says that contingency planning for this is already under way. The provisions would include stockpiling food and medicines and turning parts of the A20 in Dover into a permanent lorry park.  The UK government has been accused of “watering down” citizens’ rights, after admitting that its treatment of EU nationals would change in a no-deal scenario. In December, the Home Office published plans that said “the policy for those from other EU countries living in the UK will shift slightly to make deadlines tighter and making it harder for families to move over”, reports the i news site. Under those plans, EU nationals already in the country would enjoy similar rights to those they have today in a no deal but, at the time, this only applied to those who arrived before 29 March 2019, the original Brexit deadline. The UK and Ireland maintain that a hard border will not return to Northern Ireland, even in the event of a no-deal Brexit. But if the UK were to leave without an agreement in place, the Republic would come under huge pressure from Brussels to exert customs and immigration controls. “However, the free movement of people – the most psychologically significant aspect of the Irish border – should be unaffected,” according to i news. ven with the Government’s contingency planning, leaving the bloc without any agreement in place would result in major disruption to trade, no protection of citizenship rights, and the likelihood of a customs frontier in Northern Ireland.