Chief Guy Ikokwu, a lawyer with over 56 years experience, is the Grand Patron of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. In this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, he spoke on the security situation in the country, the need for Nigeria to be restructured immediately, and other issues. Excerpts: Ohaneze Ndigbo, Afenifere, PANDEF and Middle Belt Forum all snubbed the invitation to attend the General Abdulsalam Abubakar security summit. Don’t you think that the decision at the meeting would be binding on you? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The meeting was an informal meeting. It was not a statutory meeting. General Abdulsalami Abubakar, who summoned it, is a statesman in his own right and had an individual right to meet with people of his choice. When he sent the invitation to Southern and Middle Belt leaders, we accepted. When we requested to know whom he had invited and he replied and told us those he had invited. When we received the names, the Southern and Middle Belt leaders said they would opt out because there was no commonality between the two groups. Miyetti Allah members are livestock and cattle breeders. If it is a meeting for livestock farmers, they should also have invited, poultry association, piggery association and also milk dealers and a lot of these associations are quite meaningful and can contribute to welfare and growth of the nation. There is nothing common when you start grouping Miyetti Allah with cultural national associations and this is not the first time because when the vice president, Prof. Osinbajo came back from the United States of America, he also made similar statement when he said that Miyetti Allah was also similar to national cultural associations in Nigeria and the Southern and Middle Belt leaders also confronted him on that. Most of our followers said that the Federal Government gave Miyetti Allah 100 billion naira from the expenditure of the state, taxpayers’ money. He said that we had also been given 100 billion to share; we said we were not aware of that, and were not given any money. If they should bring the largesse, we would share it to the citizens in our cultural domain, and we know that we now use Nigeria money in any way it pleases us. What can you say about insecurity in the country? They should invite those in charge of security to give account of their stewardship. It is obvious that the security apparatus in the country is skewed. Only few sections of the country are represented in the security architecture. The hierarchy of the military, the police, the Department of State Services (DSS), the leadership is from one section of the country. You cannot find a proper representation either from the South-West, South-East, South-South or the Middle Belt. A situation where have rampant banditry, kidnapping, killings, those who are responsible should be held accountable. How can you give cattle herders, AK47, such weapons that even the army are not equipped with? They lose their respect. We have lived for ages with cattle breeders and we know that usually they move with sticks and they go the side of roads, they don’t even enter people’s farm. They don’t go into towns and villages killing people, killing traditional rulers, housewives, raping women and none of them has been arrested or disposed of their weapons by our security apparatus. Where is the law and order? If we start associating with them, the ordinary Nigeria would think that we are one. We won’t be able to tell people that we don’t have AK 47 or the largesse from federal government given to us to do what we want. We can’t even tell Nigerians that we go out at nights burning people’s houses, or that we kill Obas and Emirs, take over their towns and change the names of such towns. We looked at all these and we came to the conclusion that Nigeria situation is different from what it used to be and the military has to be held responsible because the military has occupied the political terrain for over 50 years and have not been accountable to the nation. Nigeria is being run in accordance with military command system. In unitary system of governance, everything goes to the centre and they give what they like to the federating units. Foreigners are laughing at us as if we don’t know history. No country with different cultures and languages are ruled sustainably by the military. Before independence the regions discussed with the British and at the end we had self-governance by the military set up. It was first for the East, West and North. The British in joining the North and South through the amalgamation of 1914 signed treaties not with the whole of the country but subordinate groups and later grouped all of us together as Northern and Southern protectorate. Lagos was not part of it. It existed as a colony on its own. We are at the precipice. We only have very limited time to restructure the country, within this year, not next year, otherwise all the integral part of this country would go their separate ways. We have different republics, self-governance for each part of the country. In the end they would have a confederation and if it is not possible, to your tents oh Israel. It happened in Russia, India, Yugoslavia, which broke up into six or seven parts and these sovereign republics are not even bigger than Lagos. If Nigeria comes together meaningfully with justice, equity with constitutionality, Nigeria will become one of the biggest countries in Africa and the world. What is your view about the planned proscription of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) by the federal government? It is the ineptitude that we have in the country. There is no equity or justice. Buhari should not get Nigeria involved in a religious warfare. There is no country that had ever been involved in religious warfare that had come out of it safely. The Southern and Middle Belt leaders would not go into a religious divide and those who got themselves involved in religious divide know the security challenges. It has been very difficult and what you have is that one side would not obey the rule of law. How can a court in your country grant someone bail and you refused to release the person on bail even on health grounds? We have seen people in the country who are very corrupt, who had looted the country’s treasury and were in EFCC custody. They were given permission to go abroad for health reasons. It shows you that our medical facilities in the country have failed. Do you know that 50 or 40 years ago, people from Muslim nations were coming to Nigeria for medical tourism? Do you know that Nigeria doctors abroad contribute more to their health facilities abroad? What we have in Nigeria is migration of medical technologists. There is enough access to technology, health, housing, infrastructure, but a situation where a few members in the National Assembly earn more money than the rest of the country on education, healthcare and so on. We borrow foreign currency to pay salaries. We have bastardised our unborn children to penury. Who will pay the loans in 10 or 20 years time? Nigeria at the moment is ranked the poverty capital of the world. It is not because we don’t have resources to cater for our people but because we have abandoned those resources. We shall all be doomed including the perpetrators and those who are being vitrified. Nigeria is on a wakeup call. Do you think that these new minister designates can deliver the needed changes Nigerians have been yearning for? In fact I was reading online few days ago and they said that the President of Nigeria is now a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) member because most of the cabinet members who he said he trusted were those who were discredited for their performances. The National Assembly is supposed to confirm and not screen because you are supposed to confirm someone who you have looked at his curriculum vitae and see whether he is suitable to carry out the functions that he has been given.