Chief Ayiri Emami, the Ologbotsere (traditional Prime Minister) of Warri Kingdom and chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, faulted elder statesman, Chief E.K. Clark over his comment on the political crisis in Edo state. He also spoke on developments in the ruling party, Delta politics and other issues. Excerpts: Itsekiri leaders led by HRM Ogiame Ikenwoli, the Olu of Warri visited President Muhammadu Buhari last week. Could you highlight what transpired during the meeting? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It was a very good visit. Mr. President welcomed the Itsekiri people and he appreciated the votes he got from the Itsekiris. The Olu of Warri made several demands, particularly insecurity issue along the Benin-Ore road. He made some request that security agents should be deployed along that road to check the activities of kidnappers and armed robbers. We also discussed the issue of the Warri Port and Koko Port, the EPZ project and the Ogidigben Gas Processing Project. The foundation was laid by former president, Goodluck Jonathan in 2014 but he pleaded with the President to kick start the project. We also made request for some appointments and also thank the President for the appointment of Barrister Festus Keyamo, who is from Delta Central Senatorial district. It is a well-deserved appointment. The President assured us that he will look into our demands and he expressed joy that we came to pay the visit. As a chieftain of APC, are you impressed with the performance of the party in the last general elections? For me, the party under the leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has recorded a lot of success particularly with the emergence of President Buhari in the last presidential election. That victory is overwhelming. As if that was not enough, the Oshiomhole-led NWC ensured the emergence of a leadership of the National Assembly anointed by the party. He worked doggedly for that and he succeeded and today the entire nation is enjoying it, that is Ahmad Lawan as Senate President and Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the House of Reps. There is nothing as good as having an entire house intact and working in unison because that will facilitate progress for Nigerians, unlike what we witnessed during the 8th national assembly under Bukola Saraki. I read sometimes in the media people trying to criticise Oshiomhole over the loss we suffered in some states like Zamfara and Rivers. I know that criticism is part of democracy but most times in this case, it is unjustly executed. We all knew the role of some political leaders in these states that led to the problem we had. What has Oshiomhole got to do with that? The man has been doing his best since he came on board, in fact, some of us believed that if not that somebody like him with strong character came at this stage, our party would have collapsed before the 2019 general elections. But despite the challenges, Oshiomhole held the party strong like his baby and today, he has instilled discipline in the party. But you know everybody cannot like Oshiomhole but I can tell you that majority of our party members are happy with his leadership. And in every situation, majority will alway their way while minority will have the opportunity to equally air their views. You can never satisfy everybody but I am glad Oshiomhole is capable of facing criticisms. He has taken the bull by the horns and the party is moving forward. So I want to commend the Oshiomhole-led NWC because they have made us proud. Recently Ijaw leader, Chief Ediwn Clark urged the National Assembly not to attempt to take over the running of the Edo State House of Assembly, what is your take on that as a chieftain of the APC? When I read that I felt very disappointed because he is an elder statesman and he should know the laws more than many of us. In 2015, I recall that Chief Clark never supported Governor Obaseki, so if Obaseki is trying to be very ungrateful to people that brought him to power, I think as a father, Chief Clark should have advised him better, not to cause chaos in Edo state because Edo and Delta are still the same. I expected him to call Obaseki and advise him as a father but he did not do that rather he took side immediately. Let me tell you, there is nothing about Edo state that we don’t know; the National Assembly has it as a duty to intervene in any state Assembly that has crisis. So, for anybody to fault that move is unfortunate and that is why I am shocked with the comments made by Chief E.K Clark. All of us knew how Obaseki became governor of Edo state. He was never a politician; it was Oshiomhole who made him governor against all odds. Oshiomhole offended many people loyal to him just because he wanted to make Obaseki governor. So, it is unfortunate that today, the governor sees himself as a thin god, exhibiting so much disrespect for the man that made him governor. That is ingratitude of the highest order and it is not good for him as a governor. Even comedians are now using Obaseki to crack jokes, he has become a laughing stock in the eyes of the public and that is not good. There is an adage in Itsekiri, which says you must remember the good of yesterday. Whatever Obaseki is doing, he must sleep and reflect the good times he had with Comrade Oshiomhole. A couple of times I had an opportunity to sit with Oshiomhole and he kept telling me that ‘Ayiri, you know how I laboured to bring Obaseki so I cannot support pulling that house down’. So I don’t see Oshiomhole fighting Obaseki but Obaseki is just fighting himself. It is unfortunate that the governor has allowed some politicians take advantage of this crisis so as to make money from him. They are hailing him and before he will realise what he is doing, he is already in a big mess. So Chief E.K. Clark should concentrate on Delta state where he caused so much problem for people and leave Edo alone because he does not know how Obaseki became governor. But what is the problem with Delta APC? Many thought the APC will pick the state in the last governorship election but it seems so much bickering thwarted that victory? Yes, I am aware we had serious issues in the party but even with that, we did very well than in 2015. We won some seats in the Central districts, both senate and some seats in the House of Assembly. I believe that by the next election, majority of Deltans will know that they have to work with APC. With the kind of votes we got in the last election in Delta state, I am very optimistic that by 2023, we are going to take Delta state. Now that we have the Deputy Senate President, and a vibrant Minister, we are going to work harder and the sky will be our limit. But there is this impression that it will be difficult for APC to win Delta state without the support of the former governor, James Ibori, what is your take on that? Let me tell you, in 2023, Chief Ibori will not be the one contesting for election nor Okowa. APC will field a formidable candidate and that person will win the election for us. And not just in Delta state but other South South states will come under APC because if you see the appointments made by Mr. President now, you will observe that he is bringing in more politicians unlike in 2015 when he had a lot of technocrats in his cabinet. He has laid solid foundation for 2023 with the recent appointment of more politicians into his cabinet. So come 2023, APC will win more states in the South South and the South East.