ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) has risen in strong condemnation of the attack on Senator Ike Ekweremadu, immediate past Deputy Senate President and serving Senator by members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Saturday, in Nuremberg, Germany. The ruling party also took the blame squarely to the doorpost of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ekweremadu’s party; it said lent tacit support to the group. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to APC, the opposition chose to play politics on the issue of the proscribed group, it said hid under regional identity to perpetrate criminality. Condemning the action of IPOB in a statement it issued Monday in Abuja, APC National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, said the assault on the senator representing Enugu Senatorial District was below acceptable standard of conduct by any Nigerian, home or abroad. The statement read in part: “Those involved in the despicable actions and the organisation they represent are unworthy in character. No Nigerian should be assaulted in the manner Senator Ekweremadu was. It is an indecent action and it is below the acceptable standard of behaviour expected of our citizens whether in Nigeria abroad. “It is, however, regrettable that some of the people and organizations who had offered these irresponsible elements open support in the past are raising their voices now. It would be recalled that the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its leaders chose to play politics over a matter that called for collective patriotic actions when IPOB raised a terror group in the South East. “It is clear that PDP and its other shortsighted co-travelers, who were the main cheerleaders of IPOB owe this country an apology. IPOB hid under regional identity to perpetrate criminality having recruited some misguided elements and miscreants.” The ruling party added, “We all have a responsibility to collectively rise against evil wherever we find it and in whatever guise it appears.”