Prophet, Dr Solomon Adegboyega Alao,  Supreme, Head of the Cherubim and Seraphim Unification Church of Nigeria, has called on the Federal Government to implement the 2014 National Conference  reports and the recommendations of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Committee on restructuring, chaired by Governor Nasir El-Rufai. He expressed supports for true fiscal federalism and stablemen of State Police as solutions to the nation’s socio-economic problems. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The clergy and Baba Alakoso of the Sacred C & S Church of Nigeria, decried the insecurity in Nigeria, describing the situation as worrisome. He, however, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to take decisive steps to end the unwanton killings and kidnapping of innocent Nigerians to avert violent reactions that may threaten peace and unity of the country. Prophet Alao spoke at the just-concluded  47th Good Women Annual General Conference of The Sacred C & S of Nigeria and Oversees, with the theme, ‘A Praying Woman (I Sam. 1:1-18).’ The programme, which was held at the church headquarters, Orita Bashorun , Ashi Road, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital,  started on Thursday, August 15 and ended on Saturday. The cleric said: “We must let the President to know that the security situation in this country is getting worrisome and something urgent must be done. We cannot continue like this. “Mr. President and Commandant-in-Chief of the Armed Forces must pay more attention to the worsening security in the country. In my considered view, cattle rearing or cattle ranching, otherwise known as RUGA, should be the least of its priority. “Cost of running businesses, because of erratic power supply, has become a major headache for the country and is leading to massive retrenchment.  A hungry man is an angry man and a devil’s workshop. “I am not an apostle of doom. But, most revolutions have their roots in disenchanted citizens. I also wish to plead with the President to have a look at the report of conferences set up by the past administrations and Mallam El-Rufai report and recommendations thereof. “Nigeria will gain a lot by giving the report a good thought as what the majority of Nigerians are agitating for its true federalism, and if this would work as I believe it would, what do we lose? Those in opposition to true federalism are probably very few in the country.”. On state police, the spiritual leader said, “It is either way. Every coin has two sides. When you have state police, you have the locals; they will know in and out of the community. Someone who is not indigenous can’t know it. “They will be able to get criminal hideouts. The disadvantage is the possible abuse by the state governors.  Remember during the ‘Operation Wetie’ in the First Republic, politicians  deployed  the police massively  to harass oppositions. That is the only danger. “But then, there is a middle way approach. We can set up something like FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation) which is in America. So, if the state police are going beyond their limit, they will arrest them. That is the only panacea. But, the present situation where you have only federal might, we need to look at it and do some modification. “Again, we need to have a judiciary that stands firm, that is independent and  God-fearing. When we have this, our problem will be solved. I support state police subject to certain parameters. State governors will take full control. “Make it a criminal offence for anybody that abuses it. In the United States governors don’t enjoy immunity. I know just of recent, the Governor of Connecticut has just been released from prison because he overstepped his bounds. “And until we go back to the basis, there will be no peace in the country. Because when a child thinks he is wiser than his parents, there will be problem. The trio of Alhaji Ahmadu Bello, Dr Nnamidi Azikwe and Chief Obafemi Awolowo sat down and said this was the best for the country and it was the best. We are not asking for the shifting of boundries. “No. We are asking for constitutional federalism where states will grow at its pace and contribute its quota to the centre. Once that is done, the centre will be weak as opposed to when Governors go cap-in-hand begging. “The problem is that the tiny minorities that is milking this country  dried will not allow it and unless you and I rise, I’m not agitating for violent revolution but if care is not taken, the revolution is already building up. And before we know, we will enter the Egyptian revolution.  It will be a bad thing if Buhari leaves the scene and trouble starts if he has not done the right thing. He should lay the foundation to put this thing permanently in check.” To the women, who held the conference, he charged, “As our mothers, the future of our children is very important and I therefore implore you to keep a tap on our youths such that they grow up in the teaching of the church.”