Abuja – The Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) on Wednesday night disclosed plans to establish special Agro-processing zones in Nigeria that will attract no about $4 billion into the Nigerian economy. Kayode Fayemi, the Chairman of NGF, made this known while briefing journalists after the governors’ meeting Wednesday night. “We deliberated on several issues and resolved as follows: The Forum was briefed by the deputy chairman Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State on the meeting between the forum and the African Development Bank, the officials which came in company of existing and potential Chinese investors in Nigeria, and it was part of series of high-level engagement driven by the AfDB to promote the establishment of special Agro-processing zones in Nigeria. These SAPZ which should bring together the farming and processing communities have the potential of attracting between $1 billion to $4 billion with the entry of private hector investors” Fayemi also said the NGF also discussed updates on the Nigerian Financial Intelligent Unit (NFIU) Guidelines on Local Government Funds, sustainable Development Goals, and Climate Change among other things. Daily Independent gathered that other issues topping the agenda of the yesterday’s meeting include feedback on Governors’ Meeting with AFDB and Chinese Investors Governor Sokoto, review of NEC Meeting Agenda, Briefing on the State of the States Investment Conference and Exhibition
Presentation by Stakeholders. Others issues to be discussed among the 36 states governors are Rotary International/ PolioPlus Committee – Sustaining progress made in polio eradication and managing Post-Declaration Relapse, Asset Management Company of Nigeria – Collaboration with states on asset Disposal, Transmission Company of Nigeria: Briefing on Transmission Expansion Plan and its potential impact in improving power supply in States. Our correspondent who monitored the meeting reports that those in attendance are the chairman of NGF and Ekiti Governor, Kayode Fayemi, deputy chairman and governor of Sokoto, Aminu Tambuwal. Others are: Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Umaru Fintri (Adamawa), Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom), Willie Obiano (Anambra), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Dairu Ishiaku (Taraba), Abubakar Badaru, (Jigawa), Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Emeka Ihedioha (Imo), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Aminu Masari (Katsina),
Dapo Abiodun, (Ogun State). Cross River Deputy Governor, Prof. Ivira Esu.