The Ondo State government has accused the Peoples Democratic Party in the state of being envious of the achievements of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in the last two and half years. The government, in a statement by Donald Ojogo, the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, explained that it had earlier raised an alarm that blackmail machinery was going to be unleashed. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The government noted that the PDP’s recent attack on Akeredolu, was part of “that calendarised plot”, adding, “All the same, we need to understand that some envious outbursts are caused by certain underlying issues. “In this particular case, it is not our fault that a group of persons are haunted by their collective inadequacy because most jealousy is rooted in feelings of inadequacy. “Therefore, the feeling of inadequacy emerges as a reaction or solution to those feelings of undone things on the part of PDP. “In this instance, we do not expect a group of persons, who for lack of capacity, mere desperation for power and profligacy, left so many things undone, to clap for Governor Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu when the people of the Ondo State are in common agreement that the face of infrastructure has changed. “It will be uncharitable to think that some persons will wait to be reminded of their ignoble past when under Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, within two and half years, development has heightened unimaginably. “Therefore, taking these tissues of lies to the undeserved ambience of reaction is to raise the bar beyond the display of unenthralling ignorance by the PDP,” the statement read in part. The government, however, maintained that it would not consider any opposition content as inimical, stating that “it is part of democracy. Just as we continue to resist, as we have resolved overtime, the alluring temptation and pressure to look deep into the past, disallowing PDP a little space for their mindless shamelessness will be unkind on the part of the media. It’s not time to talk yet,” it added.