The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) yesterday threatened to ground activities in Chevron Nigeria Limited over the sack of more than 500 of its members by the company in violation to the extant agreement reached with it. The union also issued a seven-day ultimatum to the management of the oil company to reverse its decision or face legal proceedings, including industrial actions to press home its demands. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network This was contained in a statement jointly signed by Comrades Williams Akporeha and Afolabi Olawale, the President and General Secretary, respectively. The statement recalled that the unions in the oil and gas industry has had a protracted negotiation with Chevron over its plan to sack more than 70 per cent labour manpower, claiming reductions in its operations in the country, But, the intervention of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS) and even Ministry of Labour, compelled the company to reduce such to only 30 per cent cutting across all unions and non-unionised staff. The union, however, claimed that rather than respect the agreement reached, Chevron went ahead to sack only NUPENG members, including its executives in violation of the agreement, while others were not affected by the purge. The statement claimed that from the 1,856 labour manpower contract staff in Chevron, NUPENG had 1,120 members, PENGASSAN had 213, while the and non-unionised staff were 523. According to the statement, it was also agreed that Chevron Nigeria would not in any guise change the labour manpower to service contract, another agreement it said the management violated. The statement added: “Unfortunately, immediately after the agreement was reached, Chevron started executing the exercise in blatant violation of the agreed terms, ostensibly to either put NUPENG in bad light as troublesome or for extinction because only NUPENG members have been exited from work leaving behind the non-unionised workers and PENGASSAN members. “It is further embarrassing to see that NUPENG executives are also part of those already locked out. From our record, over 500 of NUPENG members are being exited. “We further learnt that the intention of Chevron is to change the contract to short term service contract and we see this as unfair and breach of agreement reached with us in bad faith.” The union demanded the immediate recall of all its executives affected by the purge, adding that the percentage of reduction agreed should be spread to the three groups as agreed to avoid suspicion that it was the target of the purge in the company.