OSOGBO – The 2019 grand finale of Osun Osogbo Cultural Festival on Friday came to a close with a promise by Osun State Government to make the festival and other tourists’ sites foreign exchange earnings for the state. Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola gave the promise while speaking at the grand finale ceremony held at the Osun Groves, Osogbo. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Devotees, traditional chiefs, worshippers, cultural groups, associations, sons and daughters of Osogbo had earlier paid homage to the custodian of the festival and chief host, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun Larooye II at the groove. Local visitors especially those from other countries such as Brazil, Japan, Europe, traditional religious heads also paid homage to the monarch. Speaking at the occasion, Governor Oyetola, who was represented by the Supervisor for Osun Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Dr. Babawale Adebisi said he was honoured to attend the festival for the first time as Governor of the state assuring that his administration will continue to give adequate support to the festival for its sustainability and growth. He said the festival is important to his government and that his administration intends to transform the annual event to a foreign exchange earnings for the state. He said the state is equally seeking partnership with the FederalGovernmenttooptimally tap into the tourism benefits the festival provides. He congratulated Oba Olanipekun and the indigenes of Osogbo for a successful hosting of the 2019 Osun-Osogbo festival, wishing visitors and tourists safe trip back to their various destinations. Oba Olaonipekun expressed appreciation to all the partners and sponsors, who made the festival a suscces, as well as dignitaries, royal fathers and people, both from Nigeria and abroad, who graced the occasion. He went down memory lane to tell the story of how Osogbo, as a town and city, was established and how the first king was the first Osun deity worshipper. He also dispel the rumour that he had sold the Osun-Osogbo deity, stating that he was not happy about the misinformation being peddled my his enemies, stating that the palace should always be contacted for accurate information at all times.