AWKA – Former Governor of Anambra State Mr. Peter Obi was bent on giving Anambra North senatorial district a sense of belonging. So in the second half of his second tenure, Obi, now Vice Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) set machinery in motion to actualise his dream. Then, it was obvious that North needed assistance to ever ascend the governorship position going by the political marginalisation. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It had remained the only one to produce governor since the state was created in 1991 and needed an immensely popular leader to literally foist one on the state a governor from that extraction. That was what Obi did. He set out by expressing through several public speeches his intention to hand over power to a governor from Anambra North zone and no other. He surreptitiously rallied his acolytes round and they took the campaign from there. They formed several amorphous groups championed by ‘Power shift to the North’ enthusiasts. The first and one of such was Olu Na Adagbe People’s Assembly. This group, as stated before was formed by Obi’s acolytes such as the former Secretary to the State Government, Chief Paul Odenigbo, himself from Anambra North senatorial district and he was as well eyibg the governorship seat. Others were Igwe Rowland Odegbo of Nteje, Dr. Tim Menekaya who was a member of Board of Trustees of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Igwe Christopher Nnaegbuna of Ebenebe, Igwe Ralph Ekpe of Enugwu-ukwu, Igwe Chijioke Nwankwo of Nawfia, Igwe Emeka Ilouno of Ifitedunu, Elder Chris Eluemuno, Ikechukwu Ochie, Shedrack Anakwue, Egbuna Amuta and Tony Ifeanya, among others. Of these, only a few were from Anambra Central or South senatorial district, as the rest were either from Anambra North or what Anambra people call ‘Igbo Adagbe’meaning underdeveloped people. Energetic Shadrack Anakwue who himself was former chairman of Awka North local government (Igbo Adagbe) area took the campaign to all corners of the state, sensitising people on the need to support candidates from the North. At its formation, its propagators clearly stated that they were “inspired by the need for the office of the governor of Anambra to be zoned and rotated religiously among the three senatorial districts of the state for a true sense of belonging amongst their various people”. It pained members of that socio-cultural organisation, that as at then no person from Anambra North had occupied the exalted office of governor of the state, unlike the South and Central districts which had produced Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife and Dr. Chinwoke Mbadinuju or the Central that produced Dr. Chris Ngige and Peter Obi. Just as Olu Na Adagbe went to work, another group, ‘Equity Group’ sprang up. The group was formed by the then Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Chief Dubem Obaze. Obaze who was also eyeing the governorship seat rallied most of the Local Government Transition chairmen of the state to drive the campaign. Unlike Olu Na Adagbe, Equity Group had the wherewithal to pursue the agenda with zeal. The group averred “commitment to good governance in all its ramifications”. Its chairman Hon. Tony Ifeanya who was former Transition chairman of Ayamelum local government said in an interview that the idea of forming Equity Group was mainly to support or drum up support for a Governorship candidate of Anambra North extraction. Through such agitations, Chief Willie Obiano from Aguleri in Anambra North senatorial district emerged as governor. Now that Obiano’s tenure is far spent It would appear that another round of agitation has begun, this time spearheaded by people from Anambra South district. A forthnight ago a group wishing to cue into the past calling itself Greater Anambra Forum (GAFORUM) sprang up to agitate for power to shift to the South. Led by one Fabian Ozoigbo, the group appeared to be guarding against an all comers contest come 2021. Its fear is that since all the senetorial zones have taken a bite at the governorship seat all the three now have the right to go for another round. Ozoigbo while briefing the press at the occasion made it clear that with Anambra North completing the circle the next zone to produce the governor should be South. He said :”verifiable findings flowing from analyses of the politics of the state in the past show the people of the state opted for the continuation of an unwritten zonal formula and categorically chose that the next governor should come from the South senatorial zone in the interest of equity, good reasoning, smooth transition, cost effectiveness, mutual understanding, respect and peaceful co-existence “.GAFORUM also urged the people of the South to search for credible candidates with character, proven integrity, performance, competence and education for the position while as well insisting on home-grown candidates. However, GAFORUM was merely echoing All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) which had long ago left nobody in doubt that its governorship candidate will come from the South. The national chairman of the party Ozomkpu Victor Oye made that clear in several press interviews. Nevertheless, Obi has lately tried to distance himself from institutionalization of rotation of governorship seat in the state. When APGA took its stand and linked Obi with it, his Special Adviser on Media, Val Obienyem issued a statement dissociating Obi from instituting zoning in the state. Part of the statement read : “The former Governor of Anambra State and the PDP Vice Presidential candidate in the last election, Mr. Peter Obi did not introduce nor contemplate introducing zoning in the gubernatorial elections in Anambra State”. While reacting to the news from various sources crediting Obi with the introduction of zoning in the gubernatorial politics of Anambra State Obienyem who acknowledged that “Obi was the person who, single handed, insisted that the governorship should go to Anambra North against even the position of his party then, APGA, at that time said it was more of “in the spirit of justice and equity” when he insisted that the governorship candidate should go to Anambra North since they were, at that time, the only zone yet to produce a Governor.” “It was more of Obi trying to achieve balance of representation to avoid what was clearly unjust and capable of snowballing into crisis for the state”, Obienyem added. He insisted that his boss’s position was equitable and should not to be confused with entrenchment of rotation in Anambra’s Charter of Equity or whatever it is. He added : “If at any time the state wants rotation or any form of political arrangement, it would not be the imposition of one man because, if allowed to stand, history may interpret such as a predisposition of Obi to autocracy. In a democracy, decisions are by consensus and not by one man”. He advised Obi’s opponents “to emulate myriad of his achievements and imbibe the spirit of hard work and resourcefulness that made Anambra a reference point during his tenure”. Also last week the chairman of the Peoples PDP in Anambra state Chief Ndubisi Nwobu, dissociated his party from call to zone the governorship seat saying it is APGA’s creation and other political parties are not bound by it. Besides, Nwobu said that it is too early to say where the next governor of Anambra state after Chief Willie Obiano will come from. He said: “Rotation of the governorship position is a creation of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), and being a local political party it should not determine for PDP or any national party for that matter which senatorial district will produce the next Governor come 2021. In previous elections the governorship seat had been contested by candidates from every zone. In the election that produced the incumbent governor candidates from every zone contested the position but given that Obiano was backed by Governor Peter Obi who was very popular, it was a smooth sail for him.