Nigeria’s power system masterplan would require a substantial investment of over $20 billion for power generation in 20 years, a recent report released by French development agency, Agence Francaise De Development (AFD), has said. The report added that the power generation growth will make the procurement and installation of power transmission infrastructure and technology more affordable, help deploy global best practices and capabilities within the country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It said some of the levers to achieve this huge feat include attracting investments through favourable policies, as well as Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs). While the report argued that the country was well positioned to exploit untapped potential in solar power, biomass, wind power, hydro and geothermal resources and energy efficiency, it noted that the sector has continued to see a shift from the traditional electricity supply value chain. According to the report, in order to gain investments in the power sector, Nigeria must be moving towards intensifying its efforts at creating robust and functional financial service solutions. “Venture capital investments are being encouraged as well as the improvement of the legal and regulatory environment, making Nigeria an attractive candidate for international investment,” the report said. The report observed that through numerous reforms, the energy sector has presented itself as one with considerable potential to return high yields on investment and has become a regional energy investment hub. “The reforms have demonstrated public and private sector commitment to improving the power eco-system through investment, increased competitiveness and deregulation,” it said. It added that Nigeria, as Africa’s third largest economy with growing energy needs that the national grid cannot meet thoroughly or reliably, the power sector requires immediate direct investment. “Cheap and abundant availability of power is a pre-requisite for economic development, with the potential to have a multiplier effect on growth. The power sector facilitates high capital spending, which promotes investment and builds economic competitiveness,” AFD said.