Uyo – Vincent Enyeama is now a golfer at the Ibom Golf Club in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, as he had a gruelling round on Friday amid rains but says he maintains his dream to return to the Super Eagles. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Super Eagles ex-captain told INDEPENDENT exclusively he wished to play golf as long as his “body can cope with the game,” adding he does not wish to retire from football soon. According to him, “Golf is a game one can always play whether as a professional, amateur or for leisure and that is what I’m doing now. I love the game.”  The shot-stopper also was quick to say, “But I’m still very much in football; I have not dropped football. I’m looking up to Super Eagles return. “Any day, anytime I’m giving the opportunity to join the Super Eagles again, I will not hesitate to accept the offer. “I love Super Eagles and I love to serve my country because I have gained serving my country through the Super Eagles,” he said. On Super Eagles goalkeeping issue he asserted that the authorities should make do with what they have as he affirmed his confidence in Daniel Akpeyi; Ikechukwu Ezennwa and Ozoho. “For me, there is no goalkeeper crisis in Super Eagles. The authorities in charge just need to make do with what they have. “As far as I’m concerned, Akpeyi; Ezennwa and Ozoho are good enough and I have confidence in then. They should be trained properly and the best in then will come out. So, let’s not complain about them, but we should encourage them,” he said. On whether coach Gernot Rohr should remain as Super Eagles boss he said, “No, I don’t support the idea of dropping Rohr. “I believe in consistency; Rohr has been doing well and he should be allowed to continue,” just as he said, “I also believe in the local coaches and I want the authorities to assist in training them to be better.” Enyeama who has spent a good deal of his goalkeeping in France Lille club concluded by commending the Super Eagles performance in the recently concluded Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt adding, “Domestic league players should be given opportunity to prove themselves.”