WARRI – Deacon Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, Deputy Governor of Delta State, has assured communities around Olero flow station in Warri North LGA that are worried over alleged security agents’ pollution of their environment that the state government would look into it.
“Your sons and daughters made entreaties to the Delta State government to come and see things for itself. The complaints were troubling. The livelihood sources of the people have been so impacted by illegal bunkering activities that have despoiled the area,” Otuaro lamented. “We feel strongly that for us to assess and confirm the complaints, we had to do aerial overview. That’s why we came by air for a fact-finding visit to enable us make informed position and decision,” he said.
Chairman of Olero Oil Field communities, Mr. Iluwa K. Simeon, who had the hint of Otuaro’s coming and led placard-carrying protesters to receive the Deputy Governor stated, “We vehemently condemned illegal bunkering and refining activities in our environment. It is obvious that government is making partial efforts at stopping illegal bunkering activities in our area. Nevertheless, the approach of burning recovered stolen petroleum products by the military has caused more harm than good. Our environment has been degraded, polluted and devastated due to illegal bunkering and related activities.”
The communities said oil spills have polluted their waters and lands, making them unsuitable for fishing and farming, with no alternative source of livelihood.
They added, “Some of the health challenges and complications suffered due to petroleum hydrocarbons in our waters include but not limited to Renal (kidney) failure, skin rashes and irritations, respiratory system disorders, miscarriages in women, infertility and childhood/birth defects.”
The Olero field communities in a memo made available to the Deputy Governor want immediate stoppage of burning of stolen and illegal petroleum products on their rivers, provision/supply of drinkable water, secondary and tertiary health facilities to address health challenges from pollution and training on fish pond farming and on use of trawlers.
Otuaro assured, “On behalf of Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta State, we would do something about your catalogue of requests. We may not be able to do all but we’ll interface and deepen discussions with your leaders and know what to prioritise going into the next budgetary preparations. Thank you for the warm and peaceful atmosphere, in spite of the challenges, for oil exploration and production to take place.”