Minna – The Niger State government says it spends between N500 million and N600 million to augment local government staff salaries every month just as it blamed financial difficulties bedevilling the state on accruable from the federation account. The state government’s position is coming on the heels of claims by the President, National Union of Local government Employees NULGE, Niger state chapter, Alhaji Abdulkareem Lafene that some local governments had to borrow from banks to pay staff salaries. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Lafene had in a chat with newsmen explained how 12 out of the 25 Local Government Councils in Niger state have resorted to accessing Bank facilities to be able to pay workers’ salaries and some other expenses. The Permanent Secretary Ministry for Local Government, Alhaji Akilu Kuta who disclosed this on Wednesday gave the named Kontagora, Shiroro, Chanchaga, Bida, Lapai and Agaie among councils that are insolvent to pay salaries. Alhaji Kuta while making some clarifications after a stakeholders’ meeting, however, expressed optimism that the local governments would surmount the problem when the new tax law aimed at improving the states’ Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) becomes fully operational. He told journalists that the state has so far contributed close to N600 million to the State Local Government joint account between January and June this year, representing 10% deductions from its Internally Generated Revenue. “There are some other Local Government Councils affected. We share this N600 million with all the local governments as provided by the law”, Kuta said adding that stakeholders agreed to fund the state-owned, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU), Lapai. “Funding of the state-owned IBB University should be by the 25 local governments and the state government in line with the law establishing the institution which makes it the property of the two-tiers of government”. Meanwhile, the Ministry for Local Government has commenced the sensitization of Nigerlites ahead of the forthcoming local government election and the ministry, saying understanding exists among political parties that the campaigns would be crisis-free. To ensure peaceful exercise, Alhaji Kuta who was evasive when asked if the arrangement would affect all the registered political parties said some of the aspirants already agreed to step down for a consensus candidate and to further make the political terrain hitch and crisis-free. Among stakeholders present at the meeting are officials of the Niger State Ministry of Finance, the staff of the Board of Internal Revenue as well as the leadership of the state chapter of the NULGE.