ABUJA – Kabiru Ibrahim, the National President of All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), said Nigeria has not at the moment achieved food security. In an exclusive interview with Daily Independent on Wednesday in Abuja, Ibrahim who acknowledged giant strides made by President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration geared towards revitalising and resuscitating agricultural sector, said Nigeria is on the path to achieving food security. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It would be recalled that President Buhari had recently announced that Nigeria had achieved food security, as he ordered CBN to stop issuance of forex on food importation. According to Ibrahim, “Food security is more than just having food. For a nation to claim that it has achieved food security, the citizenry is supposed to eat what they want, and the food has the right nutritious value.” “There are many factors that will help in achieving this. One is the purchasing power. The purchasing power of many Nigerians is very poor.  I am not sure that we are there yet. “But we are doing our best to get there. People can be optimistic in the way they express themselves. In expressing themselves, they can make sweeping statement that we have achieved food security. “Food may be in the markets. Many people cannot afford it. Farmers are not even able to sell their produce. “The value farmers get from their produce is not good. There are many cross-cutting issues we need to achieve food security. “Technically speaking, we have not achieved food security but we are on our way. We are doing everything within our reach to achieve it.” He commended various agricultural interventions initiated by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to enhance food productivity; he however called for more synergy among the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, CBN and All Farmers Association of Nigeria to achieve resounding success in the sector. He pointed that there are so many opportunities introduced by the CBN to assist Nigerian farmers, adding that Nigerian famers have never had so good than ever before.