The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaech, has explained that the need for new approvals was responsible for the slow pace of work on the new Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge railway line. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Amaechi, who said this on Friday evening while briefing journalists after the inspection of the project, however, expressed dissatisfaction with the level of work done and advised the contractor, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), to speed up work on the project before his next visit on Sept. 23. The minister said that the slow pace of work was too visible at the Lagos end of the project, saying it was due to lack of approval of extra works that were needed to be done. “They (contractors) cannot commence work until they get those approvals. We will go to the cabinet quickly and get those approvals so that they can continue with their construction,” he said. He also cited delays in payment as another reason for the slow down, saying that the contractors were waiting for a minister to approve their payments. “Our appeal is that they should please hurry up and get into the sea ports so that we can evacuate the goods at the sea ports, we should at least be able to reduce what people refer to as Apapa gridlock.” The minister denied giving December as the deadline to deliver the project, saying that he only wished that the project would be completed by December this year. The minister assured Nigerians that very soon, train services would begin to run from Lagos to Ibadan, stressing that the project was nearing completion. “We also agreed with them (contractors) to have between September and October, two major ground breaking ceremonies, one is the University at Duara, the University of Transportation which we think it is going to be in September and then a ground breaking ceremony at Kajola. “We are insisting that they (contractors) cannot continue to manufacture coaches, locomotive and wagons in China and be giving to us. “So, as party of one of the benefits we get out of the contract we have given them, they will build a factory in Kajola by October where they will begin to manufacture wagons for now. “From then, they will progress from wagons to locomotive and coaches and Nigerians will understudy them.” On the loan for the Ibadan-Kano rail project, Amaechi said that the Federal Government was ready and only waiting for the Chinesee to approve the loan. “If the loan is approved, we will commence construction. Certainly it is desirable, the President is eager for the project. We need to construct that of Ibadan to Kano,” he said. He inspected the project in company of the Managing Director, Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Mr Fidet Okhiria and Chairman, Board of Directors, NRC, Malam Ibrahim Al-Hassan-Musa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the inspection was coming barely 48 hours after the inauguration of the new Federal Executive Council by President Muhammadu Buhari.