Lagos – This is not the best of times for Nigerian sports. The sector is reeling from one crisis to the other, especially since Muhammadu Buhari came to power in 2015. This is not helped by lack of policy direction. Since the advent of the fourth republic in May 1999, the sports ministry has been unlucky with the caliber of personalities assigned to administer the sector with the capacity to reduce the country’s unemployment by more than half if developed. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Most of those assigned to head the sector have led it by the nose due to the absence of a clear cut vision and are lacking in visionary leadership. This is due mainly to lack of policy framework for the sector. From May 29, 1999, Sports hasn’t seen much change. It is a far cry from what was experienced under the military regime. “Football, which is the most popular sport in the country, has really dwindled in fortune and the other sports have not fared any better – except a few others like basketball and athletics,” says ex-international Yinka Shofoluwe in an interview. He believes sports can take youths off the streets and crime and earn them incomes, calling for policies that can create an enabling environment for it to grow. Successive governments have not accorded sports a priority of place and this has largely responsible for assigning to the sector ministers considered not good enough for ‘juicy ministries’. And that is why the personalities of the office-holders have been a factor in limiting their effectiveness. The reaction to the omission of Barr Solomon Dalung as a ministerial nominee by President Buhari penultimate week tells of how stakeholders perceived his reign. Before now, it was believed that Dalung would return having been named as part of the government delegation to the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt to support the Super Eagles. Dalung, who was appointed Sports Minister in 2015 during the first tenure of PMB, had several controversial issues with sports personalities in the country and his poor understanding of the sector. Dalung did make some gains but the avoidable crisis in the basketball, athletics and football federations, as well as the recent ‘missing IAAF $130,000’ among many others, did not help the rating of the ex-minister. All that is now history as PMB’s new list of nominees as Ministers have been screened and cleared by the Senate and in few days’ time portfolios would be assigned to them during their inauguration. In his view, Mitchel Obi, President, Africa International Sports Press Associations (AIPS), lamented that sports sector has remained dormant for decades and with decayed facilities lying waste. He urges the next Sports Minister to read up all literatures hindering the sector with a view to proffering solutions. “Any Sports Minister who comes should spend one week on a retreat and read up all the literatures on the issues of Nigerian sports, understand the problems and the solutions that have been proffered over time. “The next thing is to take an inventory of sports facilities in the country and see how he can make these facilities working. “The problems have been there since independence, we have had vision 2010 and 2020 master plan and till date nothing has changed,” he cried. He thus advised that the next Sports Minister should use sports as an enabler or catalyst for meeting the agenda of the Federal Government. “The Federal Government should use sports as a catalyst or enabler to drive its political agenda to Nigerians; engage the youths, provide employment.  Sports have the power to change the world. “The next Sports Minister should have some traits that will help the sector.  He must have the three ‘C’s qualities: Competence, Character and Capacity, and the most important one is Courage.  Without these qualities, it will be difficult for him to attain the desired results,” he said. Already, some of the tasks the next Sports Minister would face on assumption of office are highlighted below. · End Feuds In Federations This perhaps should be his first priority as things are not going on well in the two national federations. They are the Athletics Federations of Nigeria (AFN) and the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF). The NBBF crisis started in 2017 during the board federations elections. Two factions held two different elections for the NBBF on June 12 in Kano and June 13 in Abuja with Tijani Umar claiming victory in the Kano election, while Musa Kida won the Abuja election supervised by the sports ministry and the Nigeria Olympic Committee. Dalung’s crime was his refusal to support any candidate in the election, rather asking interested candidate to go to the polls to test their might. Though, the international body of basketball, FIBA, has since recognized Kida’s group as the authentic NBBF, there are still issues to be settled within the federation. The next Sports Minister needs to bring aggrieved members together in the interest of the sport. The AFN is polarised over with some board members angling to oust Hon. Ibrahim Gusau as president. • Facilities When Dalung resumed office as Sports Minister, he boasted to reawaken ‘the dry bones’ in the sporting facilities owned by the Federal Government. But it now seems like words meant to warm himself into the hearts of critics who doubted his credentials owing to his sporting antecedents. He promised to revive the stadiums and put them to use. Sadly, however, things have remained as they were and even degenerated. From Liberty Stadium in Ibadan to National Stadium in Lagos to the Abuja Stadium, it’s the same old-story of rot and decline. The tartan tracks at most of the stadia are nothing to write home about as well as their gyms, swimming pools, handball courts, indoor sports halls to mention but few. Other facilities and equipment are also rotting away with nobody ready to take responsibility.  The next Sports Minister must also give prompt and urgent attention to for the athletes to use to develop their talents. Maintaining the facilities is another major issue which needs to be given attention considering the fact that Nigerians ‘lack the maintenance’ culture. For instance, the renovated National Stadium swimming pool in Lagos should not be allowed to degenerate into algae and spirogyra-defaced pool of the past and its decrepit edifice stage again after 18 years of fruitless attempts by the Federal Government to fix the swimming pool, it was under Dalung that the pool was finally renovated. Since its renovation, it has facilitated the hosting of the second edition of the Africa CANA Zone Two junior swimming championships held in 2017. A proud Dalung said after the facility was brought back to life: “Now, the aquatic federation will have no excuse when we ask them for updates about their activities towards presenting athletes for the 2020 Olympic Games. “The world-class facility is now at their beck and call for them to make use of. All they need is little logistics to organise local and national events where talents will be discovered and nurtured. And also praising Dalung for this feat is the former president Nigeria Swimming Federation (NSF) and FINA member, Fatayi Williams. “The good thing is that it was handed over to a private individual to run, which I think is excellent. Two years on, the swimming pool is still running. So, it’s a good development for swimming. “I only wished they did the same for the swimming pool at the Abuja stadium,” he said. • Prioritising Athletes’ Welfare Athletes in the country have been victim of poor welfare. Never in the history of sports in the country have they have their rightful packages prior to, during and after major championships. From the women’s national football team, the Super Falcons to the Super Eagles, athletes’ welfare has been relegated to the background. Unlike some loving sports countries where the welfare of their athletes are paramount, the reserve is the case in Nigeria. Athletes have had to go out of their ways to fight for their rights before rendering their services to the country due to unpaid allowances and bonuses. This is a major task for the next Sports Minister to look into if the country must get the best out of the athletes during major competitions. It is understandable that boosting the morale of the athletes would not only go a long way to get the best out of them, but will also encourage other upcoming athletes to want to represent the country in the future. • Sports Medicine Another major task ahead of the next Sports Minister is in the area of sports medicine. A lot of our athletes have suffered or suffering untold hardships as a result of their ignorance in sports medicine vis-à-vis abuse of drugs and wrongful usage of ‘banned’ enhancing substances. The next Sports Minister must as a matter of urgency work in conjunction with relevant bodies in the sports medicine line to guard, guide and protect our athletes, especially the young ones who hardly know their left from right. Establishment of more sports medicine facilities in the country will not be out of place for the next Sports Minister to embark upon in the overall interest of the athletes and the country in general. • Grassroots Development Finding lasting solutions to the replacement of aging talents in the country is to develop our sports from the grassroots. Grassroots development should be a major concern for the next Sports Minister as most of the athletes representing the country have reached their peak and fading away. From football to basketball to boxing to table tennis to athletic to wrestling and weightlifting, it is the same situation. Taking most of our sports to schools and local government councils would not be too much for the Sports Ministry to do as this will abreast the young athletes the ability to know the basics and rudiments of the sports from the scratch and this will help them to go far in the sports as they are growing. Grooming and nurturing the discovered athletes should be the sole responsibilities of the Sports Ministry as this will also help put a stop to the issue of ‘age-cheats’ and falsification of age by the athletes. The next Sports Minister should also strive to encourage more sports in schools from primary to secondary and tertiary institutions. •National Sports Commission (NSC) Back By Law Another viable and very important task before the next Sports Minister is how to effectively ensure the return of the National Sports Commission (NSC). In so doing this, the next Sports Minister, must ensure that the return of the NSC is back by the law and in doing this, he must work on how to pass the bill at the House of Assembly scraping the Sports Ministry and returning the NSC. Sports lovers in the country are of the view that the country achieved a lot under the NSC than under the Sports Ministry and so will be home with the return of the NSC, which to them is far better than the Sports Ministry. However, as Nigerians await the portfolios for the Ministers amidst their inauguration, sports stakeholders, have continue to drum it loud and clear that the Presidency need to appoint a technocrat in the sport business industry as Minister of Sports in this new dispensation. Jonathan Ogufere, President of the Association of Sports Veteran, Nigeria (ASVN) stressed the need for a sound and knowledgeable Nigerian as Sports Minister. Ogufere, who is a former member of the Nigeria Football Association (NFA) and past president of the West African Football Union (WAFU), said such a move will arrest the present slide in the country’s sports fortunes. “It will be good in the interest of the country, if a round peg is put in a round hole with the Presidency appointing a technocrat in the sport business industry as the next Minister of Sports”, he said. · Private Sector Initiative And the next Sports Minister should as a matter of priority, seek for private sector support to develop the sector. It is a known fact that government alone cannot develop sports and with this at the back of our minds; it will not be out of place if the next Sports Minister seek and initiate a private sector support during his tenure. It is a well-known fact that Nigeria is a powerhouse in Para-powerlifting dominating global events with ease. However, the lifters continually shone brightly and won medals both on the continent and international stage for the country despite the little resources made available to them. But it was shameful watching the lifters train under poor condition until Dalung, who was on hand to ensure that the Para-powerlifting gym was renovated through private sector support. Just like the swimming pool, the gym now has some of the best equipment available for the country’s lifters to make use of. The ability of the next Sports Minister to get corporate bodies involve in our sports would really go a long way and will bring in transformation to our dilapidated facilities to a befitting world-standard like other sports loving countries. Finally, the next Sports Minister should focus more on consolidating on very viable grassroots development architecture and should redirect most of government’s funds to that. The professional athletes should always be compensated for representing the country each time they were called upon, but there is need to balance things alongside the home-based athletes. The next Sports Minister should also try to de-emphasise the construction of some of the giant sporting infrastructures that are in the country and should align myself with the world by adapting to convertible methods. By so doing, the Ministry can build up a sporting arena, play and still use the venue for another thing. This method was used during the Commonwealth Games held in Australia last year. Another task is for the next Sports Minister to develop a workable and encompassing relationship between major sports stakeholders and the sports federations, including the media. He should also be able to work closely with state governors as concurrent legislative partners. States that don’t have any stadium for sporting activities should be implored to do so for the development and growth of grassroots sports. Federations should be made to organise programs in states and embark on specialisation sports, where every state will develop interest in its own sports. He should also encourage as many people as possible to participate in sports and encouraging excellence at the elite level. The next Sports Minister should not see himself as a ‘Minister of football’ globetrotting everywhere there is a football competition but should saddle himself with the responsibility of helping and developing other sports.