Chief Martin Onovo is the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and also a chieftain of the Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the arrest and detention of Omoyele Sowore, National Chairman and presidential candidate of African Action Congress (AAC), among other issues. Excerpt: Comrade Omoyele Sowore, Convener of the Coalition for Revolution (CORE) and also the National Chairman and Presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), was planning a nationwide protest to mobilise Nigerians to demand for good governance from the leaders and he was arrested and kept in detention by the Department of State Security (DSS). How would you react to his arrest and continued detention? The arrest and detention of Sowore for planning a peaceful protest to demand for good governance is questionable. Sowore is a citizen, a journalist and a politician. He has a right to plan and organise a peaceful protest according to the Constitution of Nigeria. Even with his arrest and the violent response of security forces, the protesters remained peaceful in the conduct of the protests. The Department of State Service (DSS) panick over the word ‘Revolution’ is an indication of the level of mediocrity in the DSS. This level of mediocrity is also reflected on the level of insecurity in Nigeria given the failure of the DSS to gather enough valuable intelligence to pre-empt terrorist attacks by Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen. The DSS needs to be re-organised for effective intelligence work. What is your take on the DSS use of the court to hold Sowore beyond the constitutionally allowed 24 hours by obtaining a court ruling to detain him for 45 days in the first instance? The DSS motion ex-parte through which they obtained a detention order was unscrupulous and dictatorial. We are convinced that the DSS misled the court. That is why that court order must be challenged in the judicial system. You must remember that the DSS motion was ex-parte, in which case Sowore had no opportunity to contradict the position of the DSS. It also seems improper that a citizen will be deprived of his fundamental human right through an ex-parte motion. We expect Sowore to appeal against the order, vacate it and regain his freedom. How do you see his call for a ‘Revolution’ to sanitise the political system, which the Federal Government said amounted to treasonable felony? Do you think the political system needs to be sanitised, if so how? The word ‘Revolution’ has many meanings. The simplest synonym is ‘Change’, which was the slogan of the ruling party in 2015. One of the meanings is the full circle movement of a celestial body in orbit. In the case of the protests, the five demands of the protesters were all lawful and peaceful. We cannot see how that can ever amount to treasonable felony. The demands included; Improvement in education; Implementation of the national minimum wage; Improvements in the security forces; a democratised economy; among other demands. How can these constitutional demands amount to treasonable felony? An overwhelming majority of Nigerians do not agree that there is any treasonable content in this matter and have called for the release of Sowore. We think and insist that the political system must be sanitised. A rich and blessed country like Nigeria cannot be in this situation if not for the criminal political system that promotes forgery of WAEC certificates, perjury, falsification of election results, intimidation of the judiciary, nepotism, sectionalism, mediocrity, abuse of security forces, lawlessness and massive corruption. The results of the criminal political system include the worst Police in the world; the highest total public debt ever; the highest level of unemployment ever; the deeply devalued Naira, the highest level of inflation ever, the world’s capital of extreme poverty and the highest level of terrorism and insecurity ever. We insist that the political system must be sanitised. What is your take on the court bail recently granted to the Shi’ites leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his wife after over four years of detention and government’s disobedience of court orders on his previous bails granted him? The disobedience of court orders is lawless and confirms that we are right when we call the government lawless. We are happy that the court permitted the treatment of Sheik El-Zakzaky in hospital. We see the Federal Government and the Kaduna State governments as the lawless aggressors in this matter. The mass murder of over 340 Shi’ites by the Nigeria Army amounts to a crime against humanity. The government has held Col. Dasuki (rtd) and Sheik El-Zakzaky for many years without conviction. Now, they have detained Sowore without conviction. These are clearly dictatorial. The disobedience of court orders then, confirms that the government of Gen. Buhari is a lawless dictatorship. What is your view on the handling of the Edo House of Assembly crisis by the National Assembly? Don’t you think that political and not judicial settlement would have provided better solution to the crisis? We must all support the ‘Rule of law’. While the National Assembly has the capacity to take over legislation for Edo State if the House of Assembly cannot perform its duties, we must understand that in this case, there is a court order restraining the National Assembly. We must all comply until that order is vacated. Nigerians and the government seem divided over the role of former President Olusegun Obasanjo in national issues. Would you say he is playing the role of a statesman well? Former President Obasanjo is a great statesman. He has played his role as a statesman excellently and he is celebrated by an overwhelming majority of Nigerians. There is a tiny minority that seems to hate him for no good reason. That is natural as nobody can be loved by all. According to Buhari, “Former President Olusegun Obasanjo is a courageous patriot and statesman who tells the truth to power.” According to Alhaji Lai Mohammed, “Obasanjo is a patriot”. According to Oloye Adegboyega Adeniji, “Obasanjo is a sage, a great nationalist and a hero”. According to Comrade Uba Sani, “Obasanjo is a legend”. According to Prof. Akin Oyebode, “The nation holds a debt of gratitude to Obasanjo for speaking truth to power”. We agree with Buhari that former President Olusegun Obasanjo is a courageous patriot and statesman who tells the truth to power. Would you agree that dialogue or a summit is the best way to resolve the nation’s security crisis as being advocated by a cross section of the populace? Dialogue is the best way to resolve political issues, not security issues. The nation’s political issues can be resolved by dialogue, but the security issues must be dealt with otherwise. The principal security issues in Nigeria today are, terrorist Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen. These must be dealt with using appropriate law enforcement actions. The principal political proposition today is restructuring and all the nation’s political problems can be resolved by dialogue. Restructuring needs to be discussed and agreed on for a seamless implementation. The national dialogue required now is for political issues principally restructuring.