Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday threw sentiments away and confronted South African President Cyril Ramaphosa in a bid to get a word from him on the incessant xenophobic attacks on Nigerians living in that country. But because both leaders were attending the seventh Tokyo International Conference for African Development (TICAD7) in Yokohama, Japan, they could not really go deep into the matter. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network For this reason, they settled for a date in October 2019, when Buhari would pay an official visit to Pretoria to table the Nigerian government’s grievances. However, Buhari seized the little opportunity to say his government was very upset about the continued killing of Nigerians in South Africa, noting that the trend might necessitate the call for a meeting of the leaders of both countries on how to end the matter. It would be recalled that several Nigerians had for inexplicably reasons fallen prey to xenophobic attacks by South Africans even though a number of stakeholders have seized the media space to condemn the act and to remind them of the roles played by the Nigerian government to end apartheid regime in their country. The killings recently sparked off protests by some Nigerian students at the corporate offices of South African firms in Nigeria, threatening to shut them down if the killing of Nigerians in South Africa did not stop. The South African president disclosed that his country’s justice system had already taken up the matter, pointing out that he was not in support of the killings. Ramaphosa said there was no justifiable reason for anybody to be killed. He described the brief meeting with Buhari as a good forum for both South Africa and Nigeria to renew the bond of unity between them and simultaneously discuss issues of common concern in the overall interest of the African continent. Asked to react to the attacks on Nigerians, the South African president said: “Well, no, no, we are going to be discussing all that because we have very good relations. We will talk about the issue of Nigerians who are dying in South Africa. We feel very upset about that. “Obviously, our criminal justice system is working on it. We don’t support killings. Nobody should ever be killed, but it’s also good to use this opportunity here in Japan to renew the bond between us, to talk about common things between South Africa and Nigeria. We know we have to play key roles in the overall development of the continent.” On his part, Buhari who equally played host to Patrice Talon of Benin Republic on the margins of the Tokyo summit, attributed the partial closure of Nigeria’s border with Benin Republic to the massive smuggling activities, especially of rice, taking place on that corridor. Buhari expressed great concern over the smuggling of rice into Nigeria, insisting that it threatened the self-sufficiency already attained due to his administration’s agricultural policies. “Now that our people in the rural areas are going back to their farms, and the country has saved huge sums of money which would otherwise have been expended on importing rice, using our scarce foreign reserves, we cannot allow smuggling of the product at such alarming proportions to continue,” President Buhari said. The Nigerian president said the limited closure of the country’s western border was to allow Nigeria’s security forces develop a strategy on how to stem the dangerous trend and its wider ramifications. Responding to the concerns raised by President Talon on the magnitude of suffering caused by the closure, President Buhari said he had taken note and would reconsider reopening it in the not too distant future. He, however, disclosed that a meeting with his counterparts from Benin and Niger Republics would soon be called to determine strict and comprehensive measures to curtail the level of smuggling across their borders. Recall that Buhari recently barred the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) from releasing forex for the purposes of food importation, especially rice and other staple food crops produced locally in Nigeria. While the ban elicited diverse reactions from Nigerians on the implications of the policy, the effect may have started to take its toll on Niger Republic, which is one of the border communities. Earlier, President Talon said he called on the Nigerian president as a result of the severe impact the closure of the Nigerian border was having on his people. Nigerian-Owned Businesses, Others Attacked In New Wave Of Xenophobia Meanwhile, Nigerian Union has advised Nigerians leaving in South Africa to avoid Pretoria Central Business District (CBD) until the Police Authority certify the area safe for foreign nationals. The Nigerian Union in South Africa (NUSA) gave the advice in the wake of xenophobic attacks early Wednesday morning in that country. “Violent looting and burning of foreign-owned businesses started in the early hours of today, August 28, at the Pretoria CBD. The foreign-owned shops and offices were targeted by angry taxi driver rioters, the President of NUSA, Adetola Olubajo said in a statement. “The violent revolt and looting have been fuelled by the death of a taxi driver allegedly by Tanzania nationals on Tuesday at Pretoria CBD. “Not less than two buildings were burnt by the angry mob. This was done after the stocks in the various shops were looted by the rioters. “The situation was very volatile this morning but the joint efforts of South African Metro Police and South African Police Service members helped to curb the violent looting and attacks, although the situation is still tensed at the area as several roads were blocked for motorists.” He said as at the time he sent the statement, only two Nigerian-owned businesses were identified to be affected, — furniture/electronics shop on Sisulu Street and Gold Exchange Business on Lillan Ngoyi Street were looted and burnt. “Information reaching us is that some foreign-owned businesses have been marked to be attacked over the night. “The marked foreign-owned businesses include a Nigerian-owned Private Clinic, Nigerian-owned motor spares shop and a Nigerian church, among others. “The Nigeria High Commission in Pretoria has been informed of the planned overnight attacks and looting of foreign nationals businesses. “We strongly advised Nigerians to avoid Pretoria CBD until the South African Police Authority has certified the area safe for foreign nationals,” Olubajo said.