YENAGOA – The local council election conducted in Bayelsa State on Saturday to elect new chairmen and councillors was marred by general voter apathy as it was characterised by low turnout of voters. It was gathered that voting materials and personnel of the State Independent Electoral Commission (BYSIEC) arrived late in most parts of the eight local government areas and 105 wards, where the council poll was conducted. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The election was boycotted by the major opposition aprty in the state, All Progressives Congress (APC), which had prior to the election, declared that it would not participate in the exercise as it felt it would be a waste of energy, time and resources. Some voters in Ogbia, Yenagoa, Kolokuma/Opokuma, Sagbama, Ekeremor, Brass, Nembe and Sagbama council areas complained that voting did not take place in their units and wards, while it started late in some others. But, some councillorship candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), including Tari Brown from Sabagreia, said the poll was smooth and peaceful in their areas. Governor Seriake Dickson, who cast his vote alongside his wife, Rachael, at their Unit 5, Ward 2 in Toru-Orua community of Sagbama Local Government Area, described the election as peaceful and hitch-free. He told newsmen after casting his vote that preliminary reports he received indicated there had not been “challenges and breaches” across the state. Dickson said: “Our expectation is that it will end peacefully. Mind you, the main opposition decided to boycott the election. But, there are over 30 parties that presented candidates. “I call on all to conduct themselves in a peaceful and orderly manner throughout the election and vote for candidates of parties of their choice. It is a local election where the people understand the issues. Local election can be very serious.” At Sampou in Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA, the senator representing Bayelsa Central at the National Assembly, Douye Diri, stated in an interview with reporters after casting his vote that the process was “simple, transparent and fair.” Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Tonye Isenah, who also cast his vote in his Odi Ward in Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA, debunked reports that voting did not take place in some parts of the local government. He described the voter turnout in his ward as impressive and commended the constituents for coming out to exercise their franchise. Also speaking, the state Commissioner for Education, Jonathan Obuebite, said the exercise was peaceful at Nembe-Ogbolomabiri in Nembe LGA and commended the electoral umpire for conducting “a beautiful election.” Results of the council poll would be expected from Sunday, while collation would be carried out by the BYSIEC at its secretariat in Yenagoa, the state capital.