Senator Walid Jibrin is a founding member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Board of Trustees (BoT) Chairman of the party. In this interview with SAMUEL OGIDAN, Jibrin spoke on the controversial Ruga scheme recently proposed by the federal government as a means to end herdsmen/farmers’ clashes. He explained that Ruga is not a compulsory scheme for all the states in Nigeria, adding that those who don’t want it should be left alone. He also spoke on his loyalty to his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and reacted to other trending issues of national interest. Excerpts: Being one of the advocates of the Ruga scheme, which created a lot controversies among Nigerians in which some supported and some opposed, how would you react to the recent uproar created by the issue? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I have noticed that my statement on the proposed Fulani herdsmen settlement areas, a modernised grazing settlement otherwise known as Ruga, has generated unusual controversies. First and foremost, Nigerians should realise that I am a full-blooded Fulani, the Sarkin Fulani of Nasarawa state, an elder statesman and an industrialist. I am a founding member of the PDP who rose from a ward leader, local government leader, zonal leader, state leader, to become an ex-officio member. I became Deputy Financial Secretary, National Financial Secretary, which made me a member of the National Working Committee, Board of Trustee member (BoT) Secretary and now, BoT Chairman. Based on the above, I can make a personal statement on any issue. My statement on Ruga was to my Fulani people as their leader, the Sarkin Fulani and it was purely a personal statement. It is not connected with my position as BoT chairman or with the PDP as a party. Ruga is not for APC or PDP. The two parties accommodate Fulani and herdsmen. There is no need drawing a line between APC Fulani and PDP Fulani. When we talk of Fulani, we are one and the same. But I will never support any Fulani involved in conflict, killings, kidnapping and all forms of evil. Lately your loyalty to the PDP, a party, which you are its BoT Chairman, seems to have suddenly become topics of discourse. What exactly is happening? I am an ardent adherent of the official decisions of my party, which is yet to take a stand on Ruga. I have never gone contrary to the decision of my party. I am a respecter of the party’s Constitution. It all happened someone, in error, posted a photograph, supposedly of me and Mr. President on the social media. I repeat, I was not the one in that picture. I have been to the Presidential Villa only once since Buhari became President. That was when our former caretaker Chairman, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, led us to the Villa when the President returned from a medical vacation in London. I have a record of many PDP stakeholders, who have visited the president personally and officially to congratulate him for what he has done for their states. But some leaders seem to be politicising the issue of security in the country at a time when the security situation seem to be in a deplorable condition. How would you react to this? When we are discussing security, we must not bring politics, religion or tribe into it to confuse matters. I am a Nigerian devoid of any intention to create divisions in Nigeria. Ruga is not a compulsory scheme for all the states in Nigeria. The Southern states and even some Northern states are not party to the scheme and I support them. Those who don’t want it should be left alone. It is only a test programme for those states that want to adopt it. Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Afenifere and a few others kicked against your endorsement of the scheme. How does that make you feel? My closest friends today are not even Fulani or Muslims. They are Igbo and Yoruba people. We have come a long way. The governor of Imo state, His Excellency Emeka Ihedioha for example, is my friend. I spent three days in Owerri during his inauguration. Chairman of Ohanaeze, Chief Nnia Nwodo is a great Nigerian. Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu is my leader, my friend. Senator Adolphus Wabara is my friend and secretary of PDP BoT. Today, I am the chairman of the Movement for the protection of the Igbo in the North. When some of our youths sometimes ago gave Igbo in the North an ultimatum to leave, I kicked against it. When some people were muting the idea of setting up Fulani vigilante group in the South-East, I also moved against it. I want to assure these friends and brothers of ours that if they find any Fulani doing something unlawful in their domain, they should inform us and we will handle it. The Kogi and Bayelsa States governorship elections are around the corner. How prepared is the PDP for this November polls? The National Working Committee of the PDP is doing everything possible to ensure that there is no impunity, god-fatherism and lawlessness. All our aspirants in the two states must eschew bitterness, so that we will produce the two governors that we will be proud of. What is the latest development on the Committee set up by the BoT to look into the PDP House of Representatives minority leadership election? We set up a committee made up of two former Senate President, Adolphus Wabara and David Mark; former Deputy Senate President, Ibrahim Mantu, former Deputy Speaker, Austin Okpara and others. Once the report of this committee is out, we will submit it accordingly. Do not forget that role of BoT is purely advisory.