Yenagoa – One of the governorship aspirants in Bayelsa State on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Timi Alaibe, has commended Governor Seriake Dickson and the state chapter of the PDP for the huge success recorded in last Saturday’s council election. Alaibe, who is a former Presidential Adviser on Niger Delta Affairs, also congratulated the chairmen and councillors-elect for their electoral victory on the party’s platform. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In a congratulatory message released in Yenagoa, Alaibe noted that the party’s victory at the council polls was another proof that Bayelsa people have a common understanding that only the PDP-powered government can deliver the dividends of democracy. Alaibe, who is also a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), however, tasked the elected chairmen and councillors to be servants of the people and also be accountable. He further said it would be his delight to work with them if elected governor of the state on November 16. The governorship hopeful stated: “Your victory at the polls demonstrates the confidence the people of Bayelsa State have in Governor Seriake Dickson, the leadership of the PDP in the state and in you as individuals. “It is now left for you to justify this confidence by being servants of the people. You must see your election as an opportunity to serve the people. As you assume office soon, you must ensure that whatever you promised the people during your campaign is given to them. “You must be ready to account for all your actions and inactions because that is what the people expect from you. As a leader, you are expected to listen to the people even if you cannot meet all their needs. “Your victory would have been impossible if the party in the state under the leadership of Governor Dickson did not cultivate and sustained the trust of the people in the last four years through development plans.” “It will be my joy, by the grace of God, to work with you in a few months when I am elected governor so that together, we can continue from where he stops.”