ABUJA – The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has concluded plans to host the Conference of African Telecommunications Regulators on Consumer Affairs (CATCO) in Abuja from August 20 to August 22, 2019.
A statement on Wednesday by Henry Nkemadu, the NCC Director of Public Affairs, said the three-day conference with the theme: ‘Empowering the Telecom Consumer in an Era of Technological Evolution’ was geared towards pursuing a continuous collaboration between African telecommunications regulatory agency of individual country and their regional bodies.
Nkemadu said the conference would look at how regulatory activities of the 54-member nations of African Union (AU) could be integrated for seamless connectivity to boost customers’ satisfaction.
He noted that bodies such as West Africa Telecommunication Regulatory Association (WATRA) and East African Communications Organisation (EACO), among others, would participate in the proposed conference.
According to him, “the conference will provide the platform for Africa to establish unity, solidarity, collective self-reliance in the ICT sector.
“It will build on the principle of pan-Africanism within the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) space and sustaining a robust collaborative regulatory environment where current and future challenges are addressed.”
He further explained that participants are expected to provide varying and fresh perspectives to burning issues affecting telecoms consumers and service delivery in Africa.
He said that vital discussions would focus on the current state of telecoms industry in the Continent, ways to improve it and how to sustain a healthy telecom industry.
The NCC’s Director of Public Affairs said that other areas that would be looked into include challenges confronting African telecoms regulators, international best practices, emerging technologies and their applications for the benefits of consumers.
He said stakeholders from various African countries, Legislators and Government officials, Consumer Advocacy Groups, African Telecommunication Regulators and Regional bodies are all expected to be at the event.