ABUJA – Health agencies in the country have been urged to ensure the best use of the N12.7 billion ($41.5M) Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF). Aminu Magashi, the coordinator, Africa Health Budget Network (AHBN), said this, urging the agencies to spend the money for the purpose it was meant for in order to alleviate the sufferings of the vulnerable. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Health, has disbursed the said sum in May, 2019, to three health agencies namely: National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS); National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) and Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC). According to him, NHIS got 50 percent of the fund which is  N6.5 billion ($21.2M); NPHCDA got 45 percent of the fund which amounts to N5.8 billion ($16M) while NCDC got 2.5 percent of the fund which is N327 million ($1.06M). Magashi gave this revelation at a one-day Association for Nigerian Health Journalists (ANHEJ) Technical Session and briefing on using BHCPF to improve health reportage. According to him, “The Federal Ministry of Health, through CBN TSA account, disbursed 25 percent of 2018 budget to NHIS, NPHCDA, and NCDC. This money is in their account as I speak. “Half of the money has gone to NHIS and they are expected to pay the vulnerable people at the state level facilities, provide free care for pregnant women, under five,  cancers and all this areas. “This means that they have funding to push for change if there is commitment and interested to deliver; journalists should also help them to deliver by asking the right questions, organising interview under ANHEJ to ask questions, start from the three agencies that have gotten their money. Ask them about the money and their plans to expend the money. “It takes 10 years of advocacy before the government signed the National Health Acts; it takes four years before government begin to appropriate the money. “This money has been disbursed to three agencies and more money will be disbursed in either August or September. We are also informed that another 25 percent is being allocated to the serial account of the Federal ministry of health.”