LAGOS – Players in the Nigerian aviation industry yesterday tasked Sen. Hadi Sirika, the re-appointed Minister of Aviation to focus his attention on accomplishing several projects he embarked upon in his first term as a minister in the sector. Top on the list of demands were the botched national carrier project, airports concession, Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities, airport concessioning and the poor infrastructure at most of the nation’s airports. Stakeholders said that with his reappointment, Sirika may be the longest serving minister in the sector and charged him to be more commercial orientated. Grp. John Ojikutu (rtd), the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Centurion Aviation Securities, urged Sirika not to neglect the failed national carrier project for the nation. Ojikutu insisted that Nigeria required a national carrier to fly its flag, but said the composition and share ownership must include experience foreign technical partners, investors, credible Nigerian investors and the Nigerian public through the Stock Market to give. He also advised him to continue with the airport concession, but said the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) should be upgraded to a Holding Company. “However, like I said at the last stakeholders’ forum, Federal Government, including states who wish to be part of the project, must together not have more than 10 per cent share in the national carrier capitalisation. “With the plan for airport concession, FAAN should be upgraded to a Holding Company having all the terminals concession to private companies on behalf of the Federal Government. Give out all the 20 federal airports for concession at once to remove the burden of providing annual budgets for their maintenance and improvement from the government except recovery intervention. “However, the concession must be limited to passenger and cargo terminal building, aircraft aprons/ parking at terminal car park toll gates, land office building and any other non-aeronautical infrastructures.”