France’s government is demanding an investigation into Jeffrey
Epstein’s links to the country following his “apparent suicide” in a
New York prison cell. In a joint statement, two ministers in Emmanuel Macron’s cabinet said
it was “fundamental” that a separate probe is launched so that the
paedophile financier’s death “doesn’t deprive the victims of the
justice they deserve” and to protect other girls from “this kind of
predator”. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Marlene Schiappa, secretary of state for gender equality, and Adrien
Taquet, secretary of state for protecting children, added the US probe
into Epstein’s abuse of teenage girls had “highlighted links with
France”. Francois Durpaire, a historian on US and French affairs, told BFMTV
Epstein was “very fond” of France and that the 66-year-old owned
properties in Paris, Nice and Biarritz. “Whenever there is a place related to Epstein, there is a case that is
related to Epstein,” he said. US authorities say Epstein had a residence in Paris and used a fake
Austrian passport to travel to France in the 1980s. In an open letter addressed to the Paris public prosecutor on Monday,
French charity Innocence in Danger also urged for a probe into
Epstein. The children’s organisation said there was an “international
dimension” to the US prosecution against Epstein that includes
“several people of French nationality”. Innocence in Danger “has recently confirmed that several victims of
the prostitution network, created by Jeffrey Epstein and his
accomplices, are also of French nationality,” the letter said. The Paris prosecutor’s office did not immediately comment. In the US, the details of how Epstein died in his Manhattan jail cell
over the weekend have yet to be released, but medical officials have
performed an autopsy on him. His abrupt death on Saturday cut short a criminal prosecution that
could have pulled back the curtain on the inner workings of the
high-flying financier with connections to celebrities and presidents,
though prosecutors have vowed to continue investigating. Epstein had been denied bail and faced up to 45 years behind bars on
federal sex-trafficking and conspiracy charges unsealed last month. He
had pleaded not guilty and was awaiting trial. The manner in which he died remains a mystery, but guards on Epstein’s
unit were working extreme overtime shifts to make up for staffing
shortages the morning of his apparent suicide, a person familiar with
the jail’s operations told The Associated Press. The person said that the Metropolitan Correctional Center’s Special
Housing Unit was staffed with one guard working a fifth-straight day
of overtime and another who was working mandatory overtime. The person
was not authorised to discuss jail operations publicly and spoke on
Sunday on condition of anonymity. Epstein had been placed on suicide watch after he was found a little
over two weeks ago with bruising on his neck, according to the person
familiar with the matter. But he was taken off the watch at the end of
July, the person said. His removal from suicide watch would have been approved by both the
warden of the jail and the facility’s chief psychologist, said Jack
Donson, a former prison official who worked for the Bureau of Prisons
for more than two decades. Last week, more than 2,000 pages of documents were released, related
to a since-settled lawsuit against Epstein’s ex-girlfriend by Virginia
Giuffre, one of Epstein’s accusers. The records contain graphic allegations against Epstein, as well as
the transcript of a 2016 deposition of Epstein in which he repeatedly
refused to answer questions to avoid incriminating himself. Attorney general William Barr said he was “appalled” by Epstein’s
death in a statement announcing the Justice Department’s inspector
general would be investigating the circumstances of what officials
have said was an apparent suicide. “I was appalled to learn that Jeffrey Epstein was found dead early
this morning from an apparent suicide while in federal custody,” the
attorney general said. “Mr Epstein’s death raises serious questions
that must be answered.”