South Sudan army is planning to attack rebel-held areas around the country’s capital Juba, a holdout opposition spokesman said Tuesday. The spokesman for National Salvation Front (NAS) Suba Samuel Manase said in a statement extended to Nyamilepedia on Tuesday that they have gathered intelligence reports that government troops are planning to attack them in several fronts. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Samuel said the South Sudan People’s Defense Forces (SSPDF) plans to attack areas under their control in different parts of Central Equatoria region. “The leadership of National Salvation Front (NAS) would like to notify its members, the general public and the members of international community that Salva Kiir forces command in Juba is once again preparing to launch another military campaign on NAS military positions,” said the statement extended to Nyamilepedia. “According to the NAS military intelligence, the SSPDF is planning to attack NAS positions in the three (3) axis of Jebel Lado and Terekeka on the western bank of the Nile and Mangalla on the eastern bank,” the statement added. The rebel mouthpiece said the attacks by the government are ploy by the regime in Juba to divert the attention of the people of South Sudan and the international community from the failures in service-delivery. “These planned operations are intended to divert the attention of the people of South Sudan and the international community, from the government’s failure to deliver services and bring about a just and sustainable peace in the country,” the statement said. The statement said the rebel group is monitoring the situation and is prepared to act in self defense if provoked despite its commitment to the ceasefire agreement signed in November 2017 in Ethiopia. “NAS forces in these locations are closely monitoring the movements of the regime forces including their allies, and are prepared and ready to fight back in self-defense,” the statement said. “While NAS is committed to the Cessation of Hostilities (COHA), signed in December 2017, in Addis Ababa Ethiopia, it however reserves the natural right of self-defense,” the statement added.