The leader of Germany’s surging Greens party, a likely coalition
partner in any new government, has raised the pressure on Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s conservatives to ditch their balanced budget goal and
finance a climate protection plan with new debt, according to
Presstv.com reports. The call by Robert Habeck comes after a senior government official
told Reuters last week that the finance ministry, led by the
center-left Social Democrats (SPD), is considering the issuance of new
debt to help finance a costly climate protection program that Berlin
wants to seal next month. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “The insistence on the ‘black zero’ (a balanced budget) is voodoo
fiscal policy,” Habeck told Deutschlandfunk radio, adding that
Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) should overcome their reluctance to
finance additional public spending with new debt. “We’ll need massive investments in climate protection,” Habeck said,
pointing to an already tight federal budget and little fiscal room for
maneuver in the light of a slowing economy and sluggish tax revenues. Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, CDU leader and new defense minister in
Merkel’s cabinet, said on Sunday evening that she was in favor of
sticking to the balanced budget goal. “I think it would be wrong if we now said that we put aside the
principle of the ‘black zero’,” she said. Since 2014, Merkel’s government has managed to raise public spending
without incurring new debt thanks to an unusually long growth cycle,
record-high employment, buoyant tax revenues and the European Central
Bank’s bond-buying plan. Green surge But as Germany’s borrowing costs sink to new lows almost daily and its
economy stalls amid weaker global demand and bruising trade disputes,
the government is facing ever louder domestic and international calls
to provide extra fiscal stimulus by running a small deficit again. Germany’s Greens have surged in opinion polls over the past few months
and are now breathing down the neck of Merkel’s conservatives. In a Forsa poll published on Monday, Merkel’s conservative CDU/CSU
bloc fell one percentage point to 26% while the Greens rose two points
to 25%. Through their electoral success in many federal states and the
Bundesrat upper chamber of parliament, the Greens already have a major
say in passing laws. “We’re actually already an almost governing party in the waiting,”
Habeck told Deutschlandfunk. The SPD, which has seen its support crumble during its period as
Merkel’s junior coalition partner, is now weighing whether to quit the
government. On the basis of current opinion polls, the Greens would be the only
possible alternative partner for Merkel’s conservatives as they have
ruled out any tie-up with the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD)
or the far-left Linke. The conservatives’ traditional coalition
partner, the pro-business FDP, is not strong enough in parliament.