Lagos – Elderstatesman and Secretary-General of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), Chief Ayo Opadokun on Friday said many of the security challenges Nigeria is experiencing today, especially the Boko Haram menace would have been very minimal if former President Olusegun Obasanjo had been decisive and tackled it headlong during his tenure.
Speaking in an exclusive interview in Lagos, Opadokun who described Obasanjo as a coward who created problems for Presidents who have ruled after him since vacating office in 2007, said he alongside some Nigerians warned Obasanjo not to allow the creation of Sharia law when it was established in Zamfara State but Obasanjo dismissed their concerns saying it will soon fade away.
While expressing worry over the state of insecurity in the country, Opadokun however said while President Buhari needs to do more in addressing the challenges, the situation has deteriorated before he assumed office in 2015.
“Yes, I am worried about the state of insecurity in the country and from the statement of Mr.President himself and his associates, they are also worried about it. That is a quick response to your question. But then, those who will want to get cheap publicity will have to understand the state of insecurity we have in the land from the perspective of the global setting we are in now.
“Insecurity has been building up over the years before Buhari came into office. The Western powers were culpable in the state of insecurity that has spread all over the world, particularly the United States of America.
“The falsehood with which they embarked upon the invasion of Iraq on the basis of the fact that Saddam Hussein was having weapons of mass destruction and then toppled that government, which was a stabilising government has led to the creation of ISIS, Al-Qaeda and several versions of those groups and they spread globally.
“When the former governor of Zamfara, Ahmad Yerima established Sharia law in Nigeria, we cautioned the then President Olusegun Obasanjo that action was an unacceptable violation of the 1999 constitution, however objectionable we were to that constitution. Society cannot be governed by two separate laws.
“Because Obasanjo allowed it, 12 additional states also joined in order for them to be able to win election. Then Obasanjo said it was just a political sharia and it will soon fade out. Here are we today, it has not faded out. The hypocrisy and dishonesty in the whole scheme is clear. You prohibit the sale of alcohol yet you want to take the largest chunk of the money realised from the sale of alcohol, cigarettes and the likes which is VAT.”
Also speaking on the genesis of Boko Haram, Opadokun said when leaders of the group were arrested by the Department of State Services (DSS), they alleged that those who arrested them were Christians and demanded for their release, he said Obasanjo acquiesced to the demand and they were released.
“The start of Boko Haram began when Ali Modu Sheriff was there. He financed the operation for the kickoff for his political activities. But when he thought that the young men were no longer useful to him, he started attempting to distance himself from them and they felt aggrieved and started unleashing terror because they believed and they said clearly that he was collecting huge sums of money from the centre on their behalf yet those monies were being expended by him and his cohorts at their expense.
“So, they said they will not allow Ali Modu Sheriff and his people have rest any longer. Two times, their leader, Mohammed Yusuf and some of his subordinates were arrested. What will Obasanjo do? They blackmailed him and because he is essentially a coward; they falsified events and they said those who arrested him in the DSS and brought them to detention in Abuja were Christians and so they should be released.
“That was why when the group had an expanded base and became a thorn in the flesh of the system, they were now accusing the SSS, the SSS had to respond about several efforts they had made to nip the upsurge of that group in the bud and what the government has done to release them. So, they are not guilty of anything.
“So, if what eventually turned out to be Boko Haram and the Sharia thing had been curbed from that time, we will get to where we are today. So, it amazes me that Obasanjo is now claiming to be holier than the Pope and alleging that President Buhari has failed to provide security.
“He is just being hypocritical and being dishonest in its entirety. What did he do while he was President? He had the opportunity of nipping this insurgency in the bud but he never did and he created problems for succeeding governments.” he said.