LAGOS – John Obuh, former Nigeria Flying Eagles coach, has applauded the Nigeria Football Federation’s (NFF) bid to host the 2020 U-20 Women’s World Cup saying it would be a big boost to the nation’s economy and infrastructural development. Obuh also added that women’s football would be the better for it in Nigeria. The country last hosted a FIFA event in 1999. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Nigeria made the right move by biding to the host the tournament,” he said, adding, “Hosting international tournament is good because it helps to put to use sports facilities. “When a country hosts a tournament, it is usually an opportunity for coaches to exchange ideas on technical matters; the team managers will definitely benefit in this regard.” Obuh believes that the economy and social activities of Nigerians would also be energised. “Another reason I want to also appreciate the NFF for deeming it wise to bid for the hosting is that the period of the tournament will be a big boom for businesses particularly in the states where matches will be played – the hotels among others,” he said. Meanwhile, President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick and FIFA’s five-man inspection team arrived Benin City on Tuesday for inspection of facilities. The FIFA’s five-man inspection team arrived in Lagos on Monday, to inspect facilities and equipment Nigeria is putting forward for the hosting of the tournament. Lagos, Benin City, Asaba and Uyo are the cities designated for the tournament which the team will visit. Reports by the News Agency of Nigeria indicated that they were received by the Chairman of Edo Sports Commission, Godwin Dudu-Orumen, Commissioner for Youth, Damian Lawani and other top government officials. During the visit, the team inspected Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, University of Benin Training site, Edo Central Hospital and Western Boys College training site. The Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) led by the Executive Chairman, Kweku Tandoh, on Tuesday said the state was ready to host the tournament. Tandoh, who said this during the inspection of facilities by FIFA officials on Tuesday, noted that the state was fully prepared to host the event with its updated existing facilities which were in tune with FIFA’s requirements. “The newly reconstructed Onikan Stadium will be ready before the tournament, we have put in a lot of efforts in this; the contractor handling the project has assured of its readiness. “Lagos has enough facilities up to standard to host any FIFA tournament even up to the World Cup. We can even have all the four centres for the Women World Cup if given permission. “We will do our best to make sure that the facilities are fixed before the tournament starts next year, we have more than enough because of the sports culture we have had.