Akure – The National and State House of Assembly Elections Petition Tribunal sitting in Akure, the Ondo State capital, has nullified the election of Ikengboju Gboluga of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as member representing Okitipupa/Irele constituency in the House of Representatives.
Gboluga was sacked by the tribunal over his ineligibility to contest the February 2019 House of Representatives election.
The tribunal based its ruling on the premise that Gboluga swore his allegiance to the United Kingdom having acquired the citizenship of the country.
According to the tribunal, the petitioner, Albert Akintoye, of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had been able to prove that the respondent was a citizen of the United Kingdom and ineligible to run for political office in Nigeria.
Akintoye had approached the tribunal to declare him winner of the election on the grounds that the first respondent, Ikengboju, was not validly elected by majority of lawful votes cast.
He also prayed that Gboluga was not eligible to stand for the election having sworn to an oath of allegiance to the United Kingdom which, he said, was against section 66 sub-section one of the 1999 constitution.
The three-man panel headed by Justice Nuhu Adi directed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to withdraw Gboluga’s certificate of return and issue same to Akintoye, who was the first runner up in the election.
While resolving the two issues for determination, the tribunal in the ruling read by its chairman, Justice Nuhu Adi, said 15 witnesses called by the petitioner, including himself, was not sufficient to prove that a case of non-compliance with the electoral laws substantially affected the conduct and outcome of the election.
Justice Adi added that Ikengboju counsel did not oppose the evidence tendered by the petitioner that the PDP lawmaker swore to an oath of allegiance to the United Kingdom.
“In line with extant laws, the tribunal was convinced that Ikengboju was not eligible to run for the election and therefore nullified his victory.”
Speaking on his victory at the tribunal, the petitioner, Akintoye, expressed gratitude to the Ondo Elections Petitions Tribunal for upholding his prayers to be declared winner of the February 2019 House of Representatives election.
He said his victory was rule of law at work and expressed readiness for further actions on the judgment by the respondents.
His counsel, Adamson Adeboro, said the tribunal was right to have upheld their arguments that Ikengboju was not eligible to contest, having admitted to have sworn oath of allegiance to the United Kingdom.
However, Olumide Ogunje, counsel to Ikengboju, said his client would appeal the judgment.
In its reaction to the ruling, the Ondo State chapter of the PDP said the verdict did not conform to the constitution.
In a statement issued on Wednesday by Zadok Akintoye, Director of Publicity, Ondo State PDP, the party said Gboluga was a Nigerian citizen by birth and as such could not forfeit his citizenship following his citizenship status in the United Kingdom.
The party maintained that the issue was well spelt out in the constitution and had been clarified in several cases by the Supreme Court.
Part of the statement reads: “We reject in its entirety the decision of the Elections Petitions Tribunal which nullified the legitimate mandate of the people of Okitipupa-Irele Federal Constituency given to Hon. Ikengboju Gboluga of our party.
“We find the basis upon which the decision of the tribunal was made deeply troubling and at variance with the constitutional provisions under section 25 of the 1999 constitution as amended.
“The constitution, by virtue of section 28(1) which deals with dual citizenship and forfeiture of Nigerian citizenship, states expressly that: Subject to the other provisions of this section, a person shall forfeit his Nigerian citizenship if, NOT being a citizen of Nigeria by birth, he acquires or retains the citizenship or nationality of a country, other than Nigeria, of which he is not a citizen by birth.” “Hon Ikengboju Gboluga, therefore, as a Nigerian citizen by birth, cannot forfeit his citizenship if he acquires the citizenship of another country. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “This position has been endorsed by the Supreme Court in several cases. The possession of a secondary citizenship as in Hon Ikengboju Gbolugas’ case is therefore not a reason for the court to invalidate his victory at the polls. His Nigerian citizenship by birth cannot be forfeited on any ground as posited by the National Assembly Election Petition Tribunal.” While stating that the tribunal ought to have done the needful by upholding the victory of Gboluga, the PDP emphasised that the petitioner, Albert Akintoye of the All Progressives Congress (APC), lost the election with about 90,000 votes. “Let it be on record that the petitioners in this case lost the election with a margin of well over 90,000 votes and only won in his ward in his local government area with a margin of less than 20 votes. “Thus, we conclude that the tribunal should have upheld a legitimate victory rather than use technicalities that are purely procedural to seek to set aside a valid election. “Our party therefore rejects in its entirety the decision of the tribunal which is at variance and in contravention of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and therefore would be appealing this judgment. “We enjoin all members of our party to remain calm as we retrieve this mandate at the appeal court,” the statement read.