Climate change and warming rivers may have caused the mass death of
salmon in parts of Alaska, scientists say. Large numbers of salmon died prematurely in some Alaskan rivers in
July according to local reports, and scientists believe the cause
could be the unprecedented heatwave that gripped the state last month. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Climate change is here in Alaska. We are seeing it. We are feeling
it. And our salmon are dying because of it,” said Stephanie
Quinn-Davidson, a biologist specialising in salmon and the director of
the Yukon Inter-Tribal Fish Commission, in a Facebook post. https://twitter.com/SalmonStephAK/status/1155879200152096768?s=20 The post documented field research that Ms Quinn-Davidson and other
scientists undertook in late July to investigate local reports of
salmon die-offs. They travelled to Alaska’s Koyonuk River, a major
tributary of the Yukon River, and counted at least 850 dead chum
salmon along a 200-mile river stretch – although they could have
missed many more. In a video documenting the trip that shows flies swarming over the
decaying fish, she described how “dead salmon washed up, just piles of
them”. It is normal for salmon to die en-mass after they spawn. But
scientists studying the salmon saw that most still carried eggs, so
their death could not have been linked to spawning. “We ruled out any likely influences of pollution and disease or
infection,” Ms Quinn-Davidson wrote. “We are fairly confident these
salmon – after surviving years in the ocean and migrating 700 miles
upriver to finally spawn – died of heat stress before reaching their
spawning grounds.” She said the deaths coincided with a record-breaking heatwave in July. “Communities on the Koyukuk reached 90 degrees [32C] on July 7-11…
25 degrees [14C] above average!” Ms Quinn-Davidson wrote. “12 July is
when locals started seeing dead chum salmon floating downriver.” An unprecedented heatwave cooked places across Alaska in July, causing
temperatures to remain above average for 95 consecutive days ending on
30 July, according to climatologist Brian Brettschneider. Record-breaking temperatures were observed across the state. In
Anchorage, the capital, the mercury rose to 32C on 4 July – the
highest temperature since records began. Climate scientists said that the week ending on Sunday 7 July was the
warmest on record in the state. However, the statewide record of 37.8C
(100F), was set at Fort Yukon in the state’s north east region over a
century ago. Rick Thoman, a climate specialist at the University of Alaska said at
the time that the exceptionally warm weather events would only become
more frequent because of the loss of sea ice and warming in the Arctic
Ocean. In the Deshka River, an important salmon stream in southern Alaska
Anchorage, stream temperatures reached 27.6C (81.7F) on 7 July,
according to the no-profit Cook Inletkeeper. “We’ve been tracking stream temperatures in non-glacial systems across
the Cook Inlet watershed since 2002, but this is a first – we’ve never
seen stream temperatures above 76F [24.4C],” said Sue Mauger, Cook
Inletkeeper’s Science Director. “We’re seeing not just stressful temperatures for salmon, but lethal
temperatures,” she says. Cook Inletkeeper said in a press release that scientific research
spanning 20 years provided evidence that climate change is warming
Alaskan fish streams, threatening salmon. “That’s because as streams warm, fish become stressed, and more
vulnerable to pollution, predation and disease. So, when temperatures
reach upper thresholds, salmon can either die or simply avoid entering
these hotspots,” reads the press release, which also notes that salmon
die-offs could affect bear populations.