P/HARCOURT – More condemnations on Monday continued to trail the wanton killings that have characterised Ogoni in recent days following alleged cult clashes that left more than eight people weekend. The President of the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP), Comrade Legborsi Pyagbara, speaking on the sad development, said the resurgence of chain of cult violence and destruction of lives and property in most Ogoni Communities was a deliberate and direct attack on the peace initiative and process by well-meaning groups and leaders of Ogoni. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The MOSOP President made this remark while responding to latest report of deadly attacks on Opouko and Luumene communities in Nyokhana district of Khana Local Government Area of Rivers State. The two communities came under cult group’s attack on Sunday, August 18, 2019, during which at least eight persons were reportedly killed (six in Opouko and two in Luumene) while the residence of the Khana Council Chairman, Hon. Lateh Loolooh and Palace of the Gbenemene Banghan, His Highness, Chief Suanu Baridam, were burnt down. Comrade Pyagbara bemoaned the killings and destruction of property by those he said did not want peace in Ogoni, and were making efforts to put Ogoni under siege. “It seems to me that there is an internal factor and interest in trying to put Ogoni in perpetual fear and siege. Don’t forget, people that want to destroy you will always use someone in your house. There is a possibility of some interest that we have not been able to uncover in this whole matter,” MOSOP President said. Pyagbara who had earlier visited Nyokuru, Taabaa and Okwale communities to ascertain the level of destruction and sympathised with victims’ families and people of the communities, again lamented over the razing of houses in his compound in Nyokuru community and those of Chief Nule of Taabaa and others in Okwale communities. He noted that time had come for Ogoni to look inward and say enough is enough, stressing that every right-thinking Ogoni man and woman must rise up against ‘this madness’ and tell those involved that they cannot put Ogoni under siege. He explained that the peace initiative that MOSOP and other groups started and which youth groups and key stakeholders were part of the previous meetings was still on course, but expressed disappointment that some persons were not committed to the peace agreement at the Saakpenwa meeting. “That people have turned around to do what they are doing is a big surprise and a shame. I thought that we had a moratorium, and that our brothers and fathers promised they were going into deepening the peace process that we kick- started at Saakpenwa. Ogoni doesn’t need this carnage, after all we have laboured for,” he said.