Worldwide, funding has remained a major challenge faced by Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), but it has been observed over time that lack of infrastructure, logistics and workforce are other impediments faced by SMEs operators. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKECHI NZEAKOR write; Like any other endeavour of business, capital is perhaps the most important factor driving the growth of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), but not the only factor. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In Nigeria where SMEs generate their own power, logistical structures and other key infrastructure, chances of failure remain high, unless SME operators are equipped with the right skills and support to navigate the challenges. Studies by the United Nations Development Programme have shown that small businesses out-number big ones by a wide margin and are the main drivers of innovation, competition and exports. A report presented to the OECD conference of ministers says, “SMEs play a key role in transition and developing economies,” adding that they typically account for 90 per cent of all firms, generating significant domestic and export earnings and employment. A report by the Office of the United States Trade Representative said that country’s 30 million SMEs accounted for two-thirds of all new private sector jobs, grew faster and paid higher salaries than similar businesses. Australia’s SMEs constitute 97 per cent of all Australian businesses, contribute 33 per cent of GDP and employ 4.7 million people, says the Small Business Association of Australia. Problems affecting small businesses revolve mainly around finance and management skills. In Nigeria, these problems are magnified by very adverse macro-economic conditions. Power supply nationwide is poor, averaging just 4,000 megawatts, forcing firms − big and small − to source alternatives, mostly from standby generators. This adds between 40 and 60 per cent to costs, rendering products uncompetitive. Add to this poor infrastructure, especially outside the big cities, multiple taxes, charges and fees and even unregulated fees imposed by state and local authorities, as well as chaotic ports, airports and highways, SMEs face daunting challenges here. The general view is that over 70 per cent of new businesses in Nigeria do not survive beyond the first five years of their establishment due to the numerous challenges they encounter. Apart from access to finance and operational challenges, enterprises also need to enhance capacity, which is one of the main impediments to growth. Many businesses struggle with book keeping, which means lenders or investors struggling to assess the business viability. Also, their inability to determine their target markets and execute the appropriate strategy means resources are dissipated without delivering the desired objectives. A major impediment to business growth in Nigeria, according to experts, is capacity building, contrary to mostly held view on financing by many business owners. Capacity building encompasses various aspects of business from business ideas, customer engagement, funding and book keeping to recruitment, logistics, sales and marketing to regulatory and environmental issues, among others. At the core of capacity building is the need to provide the needed tools for developing business sustainability. Executive Director, Personal and Business Banking, Stanbic IBTC Bank, Babatunde Macaulay, said businesses needed the “right support in terms of infrastructure, financing and capacity building” for sustainability. This explains why recent interventions by the government and private sector players to develop a strong and sustainable enterprise sector have largely been geared towards capacity building. Stanbic IBTC Bank, for instance, organises yearly nationwide enterprise workshops in several cities across the country. “The enterprise sector is pivotal to the economic growth and development of a nation. In recognition of this, we developed the seminar series to provide innovative marketing, financial and management skills that are useful to businesses and provide the skills needed for such businesses to grow,” Macaulay said. He explained that over 8,000 business owners have been trained at the yearly capacity building sessions and the figure is exclusive of those who have benefited from the bank’s strategic digital business training carried out in partnership with Google and others. Stanbic IBTC Bank believes that enterprises need strong hands to steady them as they take their first tottering steps. “In more advanced economies, governments undertake massive enterprise development and promotion through loan guarantee schemes and tax incentives. A key pillar of governments’ enterprise drive in such climes is the linking of enterprises with appropriate technologies and educational institutions. What this does for the businesses is to reduce the burden of sourcing human capital and technology, as well as enabling them to tap into a steady stream of vital research works that are relevant to their operations. The results of these interventions are often impressive, with enterprises becoming the engine of growth and transformations,” the bank said. Mrs. Ayodele Olojede , Head, Emerging Businesses, Access Bank,said there are areas where SMEs require supports. Her words: “Our team just came back from Jos where we had a workshop on how to be able to leverage social media platforms to boost sales. It is very important that the MSMEs are able to sell the products that they produce so that they can pay back the loans. So, what we aimed at doing was to give them an expository training on digital platforms as different from the traditional methods of selling. “So, we are trying to expose them to all of those platforms to help them to be able to sell beyond the proximity of their location. “Another thing that we also do very well to be able to help our customers is that we organise MSME clinics. And these are one on one engagement. Typically, what happens is that the consultant would ask key questions around areas where you are struggling, and then they would be able to proffer solution to help you through them. We have been doing this now for many years. Last year, we were able to successfully engage 11,000 customers. “So far, by this half year already, we have done about 12,000 from our 30,000 target for this year. With this, we are helping them with their finances, business management practices, helping them with understanding alternative methods of how to be able to sell their businesses and also supporting them with loans. Continuing, Stanbic IBTC said: “Businesses need cash. They equally need advisory services, business and networking opportunities, as well as human capital and marketing. The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), established in 2003 by the Federal Government, was set up as a coordinating agency for enterprises, helping to link ideas with finance while exposing businesses to opportunities. With a survey that shows Nigeria as home to 17 million enterprises, providing a structure for those businesses to thrive becomes a priority. “The government realised quite early that it may not achieve much in developing a robust and thriving enterprise sector, which is why private entities are encouraged to pitch in.” Stanbic IBTC, in keeping with its tradition of promoting businesses, took up the challenge to help mold a robust, digitally savvy, and profitable enterprise sector. The bank’s approach is very interesting. It has developed a unique value proposition to support businesses with transactional products, savings and investment solutions, lending products and wealth protection solutions. Underpinning all these is an investment in technology, designed to make banking easier for its enterprise clients. Apart from using best-in-class payment solutions, the bank had equally launched an internet banking offering specifically for enterprises. “To help clients improve operations,” Macaulay explained, “we believe a migration to digital banking will reduce the challenges faced by customers and help them run more efficient businesses. Instead of spending time travelling to visit our branches, we have created a platform called Enterprise Direct for customers to fulfill their banking transactions by telephone and email.” The SME sector is pivotal to the economic growth and development of any nation, and Nigeria is no exception. That explains why it is important that operators get the right support in terms of infrastructure, financing and capacity building. With decades of government initiatives at providing funding for the sector, analysts believe funding at low interest and with long-term tenor is crucial. They argued that corruption, poor risk management by the development finance institutions and deposit money banks, nepotism and the culture of poor repayment of credit have prevented dramatic success. “Funds provided or backed by government guarantees are treated as “national cake” and corrupt, incompetent officials collude with loan beneficiaries to default”, Thomas Olujobi, a financial expert, said. He added that “past experience demonstrates that funding, as crucial as it is, needs the interplay of other factors to enable the SME sector to fly. “Countries that have transited most successfully from developing to industrialised export economies like Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Malaysia, apply a mix of fiscal and monetary policies to shape an environment of rock bottom interest rates, stable foreign exchange rates, first rate infrastructure and investment-friendly policies. Taming corruption is key too. “Japan once offered zero to 0.5 per cent interest on such loans backed by the institutional capacity to ensure compliance. China continues, despite protests from the West, to provide low interest credit to exporters”. Significantly, there is no doubt that in Nigeria MSMEs’ operations has been hampered by poor access to finance, poor infrastructure and government policies inconsistency. To reverse this trend and put Nigeria’s MSMEs on sound footing, the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) and National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) unveiled the 2017 National Survey for MSMEs. Umaru Dikko Radda, SMEDAN Director-General, said the report has become an invaluable compendium on the state of the MSMEs sub-sector in the country. He said the setting up of SMEDAN in 2013 was the government’s major response to tackling the problems of MSMEs, especially providing capacity for the industry and seeking more funding for the sector in a coordinated fashion. “With a mandate to promote the development of the SMEs sub-sector of the Nigerian economy, SMEDAN assumed the twin roles of coordination and facilitation as the agency for MSMEs development. With an estimated 3.33 million enterprises in 2017, Lagos not only leads in total enterprise numbers, but in each of the three enterprise classes- micro, small and medium,” he said. He also called on the government to establish MSMEs bank and make loan access by small business easier. Radda said the agency has instituted a five-year strategic plan to tackle the challenges facing the sector. “We are talking more on our operation and we would want to concentrate more on the fewer activities we have. We are talking about capacity building, business development support, which is very much needed at this time. If you did build the capacity of the people for them to be competitive, they cannot grow even if you give them money,” he said. He said the Central Bank of Nigeria (can) is giving SMEDAN the opportunity to train the people taking the N220 billion SMEs intervention funds as part of the requirement for the loan. “It is after SMEDAN has trained the operators, assessed their business plan and get them to complete the loan forms that the documents will be sent to the CBN for the disbursement of the loan,” he said. He said SMEDAN was not interested in the loan disbursement but is simply requesting that the CBN makes sure that this was given to them and the agency given more responsibility to monitor and evaluate the loans. Also speaking, Statistician General of the Federation, Yemi Kale said MSMEs play a significant role as the engine for economic transformation and industrialisation for both developed and developing countries. Such roles, he said, include improved income re-distribution (low-level capital required), job creation & skills development (particularly for youth, women, elderly), adoption of technology & innovation (competitiveness), industrial diversification, stimulate the local economy (demand down the value chain). Kale also listed challenges facing MSMEs as vulnerable to economic shocks, stable and supportive policy environment, excessive regulation, complex & cumbersome tax process, skills acquisition for youth population among others. Even the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo believes that MSMEs are the bedrock of Nigeria’s industrialisation and inclusive economic development; and the most important component of industrialisation as set out in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). Kale said the survey was conducted in all 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Both urban and rural enumeration areas were covered. “Poor access to finance was highlighted as a major challenge for MSMEs. Also in the list are poor power supply, inadequate water supply, taxation and unfavourable government policies among others,” he said. He said 22,200 households, 600 households with enterprises interviewed per state, 15 households selected per enumeration area in getting figures for the micro-enterprises. For the Small and Micro Enterprises (SMEs), 4,000 operators were visited across all states, including FCT. He said that of the 41.5 million MSMEs nationwide, Micro constituted 41,469,947 (99.8 per cent) , Small: 71,288 (0.17 per cent)  and Medium: 1,793 (0.004 per cent). Continuing, Kale said: “Composition of sectors is different for each business type classification, primarily due to staff requirements of more formal establishments. For instance, Education & Construction are low for small business but top 5 for medium-scale enterprises. Education, Manufacturing, and Wholesale/Retail Trade make up 68 per cent of small enterprises. Manufacturing, Wholesale/Retail Trade, and Human Health & Social Works make up 68 per cent of medium enterprises”. Stanbic IBTC Bank sees the symbiotic roles of the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises sector and financial institutions. To buttress this assertion, the bank, in an ongoing testimonial campaign, features some of the businesses it has partnered in terms of supporting them with banking solutions, advisory services and facilities across the country.  The campaign has not only shown the bank’s strong footprint in the SME sector, it has also helped to disapprove a generally held but erroneous notion that financial institutions hardly support enterprise to grow. The testimonial campaign started early last year, covering the North, West, and now the Eastern market. It features real and known businesses across the country, from the south, the north, the east that have benefitted from Stanbic IBTC Bank’s partnership and support. Mrs. Omoyemi Chukwurah of Seams and Stitches, who spoke on the impact of the bank’s support for her business, said the lender gave her wings to fly. Also, Jifatu General Enterprises Nigeria Limited Managing Director, Sabitu Yahaya, said out of all the banks he approached, only Stanbic IBTC Bank understood his need for business perpetuity and it was easy for him to make it his bank. A sound knowledge of and robust approach to business management will, no doubt, ensure the survival of SMEs. Focusing only on finance may not augur well for the growth and development of small and medium enterprises. Stanbic IBTC Bank clearly understands this hence, the desire to promote businesses by providing financing, helping with capacity building as well as assisting their marketing drive as the testimonial campaign has shown. Stakeholders believe that setbacks that have militated against the growth of SMEs over the years should be addressed. According to Ismail Aniemu, a maritime analyst, there are many factors beyond funding that pose as great set back to the dreams of SMEs in Nigeria. He said that one should appreciate that there are certain the basic infrastructure that must be provided by the government, which the government shy away from. “Infrastructure is very important to the growth and sustenance of any business. I also want you to know the need to have adequate security.” Aniemu said that looking at infrastructure holistically, “you cannot grow a business where even if you have access to finance, you must have to provide alternative sources for power. You have to grapple with the challenge of bad roads, to access your business or to move your product from one point to another. So you have bad roads, electricity, other basic amenities like water, which the government ought to provide are not. Those things in many cases, when you look at them holistically are lacking.” For instance, he said: “if you are a buyer of farm produce, and you buy from the farmers in the remote areas and want to take to the cities, the road from the rural area to the city is very bad. There are strong tendencies that the cost will go very high for transportation; this is because the transporters will factor in the wear and tear of the vehicle due to bad roads into the cost of transportation, including the cost of fuel. There are many businesses which deficiency in power supply had affected adversely. “You run a business centre where people do photocopies, typing, duplication and all that, and you are forced to run a good part of your operation using the generator. You see yourself spending extra money to pu8rchase fuel, you see yourself spending extra money to purchase oil for the generator, at the same time, paying the technicians who will be coming from time to time to service the generator, because electricity has not been made available for your operations, the is a major deficit that affects SMEs”, he asserted. Having used business centres as one example, he said that there many other businesses that also ushers because the country has not been able to achieve 20 hours in Urban environments how much more 24. He said that another aspect to be considered if Nigeria is taken on a broader perspective is insecurity. According to him, most parts of the country are bedevilled by one security challenge or the other. Almost a quarter of Nigeria’s total space is having a security challenge, “with that you can imagine what happens to small and medium scale enterprises operating in those places where there security challenges.” He argued that in fact there are many cases in such places where the people have the course to relocate from their area of residence and businesses. He averred that this affects businesses; increases joblessness displaces businesses and business people. “If you identify location a for your business, where you think you have a comparative advantage, that you have something to deliver, you want to start operating in location ‘A’, to deliver this service of good product and location A in some instance may be Gwoza and suddenly, Gwoza is having security challenge, such bandit or terrorist attacks, everybody flees from that environment. The security challenge had not only created a social problem, but it also comes with heavy economic implications, but this is also because when you see people run like that, they run away with the ideas, some run leaving behind their investments, some run to places where they don’t even know how to start afresh. So security challenges are also among the challenges facing SMEs in Nigeria,” Aniemu enthused. Also speaking on challenges the beneficiary of funds to boost SMEs face, Mrs. Mary James, a businesswoman, said they are to do with the behavior and attitude of people to business operations. She said so many people in Nigeria have not been able to adapt to strict corporate governance. She pointed out that this where the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and other financial institutions have to come in. James pointed out that there was a need to do a lot of business education. “Corporate governance can come to the extent where you teach people that do businesses. The fact that you run a business does not mean that you have to spend all the money realised in the business the way you like. You have to save some salaries and keep the money for business aside. Don’t spend beyond your salary. Have a salary for yourself; don’t dip a hand into the business money anyhow. So, enlightenment is another issue which will go beyond begging people to save money”, she said.