LAGOS – The immediate past governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, has cleared the air over a statement attributed to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), alleging that it had frozen certain accounts linked to him. The former governor, in a statement by his media aide, Habib Aruna, said no account of his contained N9.9bn let alone being frozen by the EFCC. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said in the spirit of Sallah and having served Lagos State well with utmost dedication and integrity, his record is very clear and his mind joyful for the opportunity to have served the state diligently. Ambode said while he did not intend to join issues with the anti-corruption agency at this time especially as there has been no communication between him and the commission on this issue, it is pertinent to clarify what he believed was a misleading import of the press statement on Tuesday. According to him, the accounts in question that were frozen by the Federal High Court belong to the Lagos State Government and not him or any individual. “Those accounts were opened in the course of normal operations by the Lagos State Government for its administrative purposes and not for the former Governor’s personal transactions as was being wrongly insinuated and have been operated to ensure smooth operations of government activities by previous and present administrations. The former Governor was not and will never be involved in any unauthorised use of government property and resources. “We strongly believe that after four demanding years as Chief Executive of Lagos State, Mr. Ambode is entitled to some deserved rest with his family and loved ones without the unwarranted attacks on his well-earned reputation,” the statement read in part. The statement further read that Ambode believes that at this critical time in our polity, all hands must be on deck to support “our great Party the All Progressives Congress (APC) both at the state and national levels in order to continue to deliver the dividends of democracy to Lagosians and Nigerians respectively.”