Taofik Gani, the Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, says his party has remained resolute in constructively criticising the Lagos State government. He also believes that the newly constituted cabinet will not deliver on the promises made by Sanwo-Olu during the election campaign. Excerpts: The Peoples Democratic Party in Lagos State seems to have been too quiet about happenings in the state. Does this mean your party is comfortable with everything happening in the state? It is not true that the party has been quiet. I believe the context in which you have used it is in term of criticising the government, especially the policies. You will recall that in recent times, right from the day of inauguration, we kept criticising the policies of the government, especially the making of the governor himself, Sanwo-Olu; we criticised his qualification, talking of how he came about; we criticised his indifference to calamities that pervaded Lagos at some points, where we had boat mishaps, building collapse, flood, pipeline vandalism which led to fire that destroyed properties and injured so many people. We critisised him when eventually he brought up list of persons we feel are just being patronised and they are not being brought up to come and take Lagos to their much proclaimed and so-called next level. So if at all we are going to concede to the talk or narrative that the PDP in Lagos appears to have mellowed down in its style of criticism, then we might say it is tactical, it is strategic in the sense that the strength you put into a friendly match might not be the same strength you will put into a final match. We have a very long way to the electioneering period but that does not mean we are going to keep quiet. But the manner of criticism at this time of politicking will be different from the way you will deploy it when it is close to election. So for whatever reason, there is no iota of truth in the talk that the PDP in Lagos has been quiet. In any case, will be for compromise? No. We have been very resolute; we have remained steadfast; we are not jittery of anybody in the APC, there is no amount of lobby they can do because we have a very strong conscience, it is just that we want to be constructive in our criticism. You just talked about the list of nominees by Governor Sanwo-Olu. A lot of these nominees are said to be technocrats who will help in achieving and executing the programmes of this administration. How come your party is condemning the list of nominees? That the people on the list are technocrats and not core politicians is not true but a lie from the pit of hell. It is again the APC’s style of deceit of trying to always give defense for their inadequacies. It is not true that people who have been so nominated or selected are technocrats. Those who the governor has selected are 100 percent APC card-carrying members and who have become qualified because they have participated fully, either directly by themselves or their families. Some of these people are those who their fathers are APC chieftains. The only party that has given respect to the sovereignty of Nigeria since 1999 is the PDP. I am going to be very factual about it and you can go do a fact check. In 1999 when former President Olusegun Obasanjo was setting up his cabinet, he didn’t only go to bring technocrats in the likes of Oby Ezekwesili, Okonjo Iweala, Akinwunmi Adesina, Aganga Williams and so on. He also went as far bringing people who are non PDP members to be part of the government and that was why we had the late Bola Ige who was a member of the Alliance for Democracy as part of the government. Obasanjo’s main reason for doing this was to go headlong in tackling the problems of Nigeria, and at the detriment of we the PDP members, President Obasanjo discountenance our interests and brought in technocrats who could rescue the country and that was why Nigeria could survive what even America could not in terms of the economic recession that came about then. In Lagos, we were supposed to have an indigene as our minister but we were disappointed when they gave us an Aganga Williams who is not even an indigene of Lagos. So we again conceded because we put the overall interest of the nation above what could be termed our own parochial interests. As we speak, there is no truth that we have technocrats in that cabinet just like at the federal level, President Muhammadu Buhari has so much disappointed us, all the people he has brought as ministers are all card carrying members of the APC. So we are not going to expect much of governance at the federal level and Lagos State in particular. They will start work soon and Lagosians will see, by then they will decide whether to continue with APC or vote them out and give the PDP a chance. One of your strong leaders in the state in person of Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe recently left the PDP for APC and just few days ago, the vice president, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo asked your members to join them in the APC because the PDP will soon die. How would you react to that? For the vice president, that is his own wishful thinking. In any case, he has so much disappointed us as the vice president that ordinarily should have the accolade of an academician and being a man of God. He has really desecrated those statuses that should ordinarily be for him. He has become more politician than the politicians that we know and we are not surprised that he is doing all these things. He also has a lot of skeletons in his cupboard right from his days as the Attorney General in Lagos State, we know about the issue of ARM, we know about the issue of many land grabbing during the administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, we are not surprised that he is always trying to hold on to a straw like a drowning man. So that is his own wishful thinking, nobody is going to leave the PDP for the APC. In any case, they have been the ones going up and down from AD to AC, to ACN and to APC and I am very sure they are not going to survive this APC come 2023. Today, I can say boldly that I am happy that those who have been moles in the PDP are now suffering the same predicament that we have been suffering. These people have always been doing the hatchet jobs either within or outside the PDP and they have going and coming, jumping from one party to the other. They are at the Abuja and Lagos ends, they are always at the disposal of the leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, right from the AD days, to give out our operational strategies to winning elections and we don’t get to know early but until the deed would have been done. I can tell you that we are doing serious cleansing now and luckily for us, some are on their own out of guilty conscience leaving our party. Most parts of Lagos have been taken over by refuse and there are abandoned projects in some parts of the state coupled with bad roads, is your party not bothered about all these? The issue of refuse all over the state is something we have always criticised, we have on several occasions issued press statements condemning the scourge and also giving them other alternatives to correcting this. Unfortunately, there is a fundamental problem in Lagos, which is the issue of serving the interest of APC chieftains right from the leaders of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and all other chieftains. I think this was well captured when Ambode was embarrassed out of office and he was bold enough to let the people know that the chieftains of the party wanted him to serve them more than the state. So it is that common factor that is also reverberating in the area of waste management in the state. The Lagos State Waste Management Authority is the statutory body that ordinarily should take care of waste management in the state, but chieftains of the APC in the likes of Baba Odunmbaku and the rest have become overnight merchant of refuse business and they will collect money and not render the service. The Lagos State government is realising monumental IGR that it is so embarrassing that you will find waste on the street of Lagos. So in the area of waste management, this administration is a failure. The first 100 days in office of Sanwo-Olu will turn out to be the worst in the history of governors in Lagos State. Security situation across most parts of the country has been a source of concern. How would you rate security in Lagos? Security in Lagos is zero. We have only been lucky that every house in Lagos is a government on its own. Lagosians will not wait for the government to do some things for them, they sink their own boreholes, they fix their own roads, they construct culverts. I have done culverts for the people in my area. The people provide their own security, they employ night guards and the rest and this has made the Lagos State government to claim success in the area of security.