CALABAR – The Eastern Zonal office, of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) covering Cross River State and Akwa Ibom State, have moved in to avert the looming fuel scarcity that generated panic buying and a sudden long queue of vehicles in some fueling stations in Calabar, Cross River state capital. Chief Larry Nworuh, the Chairman of the Eastern Zonal office of IPMAN, assisted by the Zonal Legal Adviser, Obasi Nnanna Esq and some other officers of the zone, yesterday, inaugurated a seventeen man caretaker executive for Cross River and Akwa Ibom State branch of IPMAN led by Elder Edet Clement Umana. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Absence of a functional IPMAN executive in the Calabar depot of the NNPC had fostered local leadership tussle, which last month brought about avoidable fuel scarcity that lasted for some days, hence the need for newly inaugurated Exco. Speaking during an interview after the inauguration of the caretaker committee, the zonal chairman, Chief Larry Nworuh noted that the inauguration of the caretaker committee was in line with the 2009 constitution of IPMAN as amended. He assured that IPMAN has one leadership in the country led by Elder Chinedu Okoronkwo, and the members in the State are aware. He noted that the crisis of leadership in IPMAN was at the national level but was effectively laid to rest by the judgment of the Supreme Court that gave legitimacy to Elder Chinedu Okoronkwo led Executive. “What is happening in Calabar is that some people who felt that they lost out after the judgment of the Supreme Court are now using some persons in Petroleum Tanker Drivers PTD to attempt to frustrate the operations of IPMAN in Calabar depot. That in itself is contempt of court and they think they can blackmail IPMAN as if we are planning strike in the state. We are not and we have directed our members to ensure full operations and lifting of product supplies.” The Zonal Chairman noted that some persons in the corridors of powers in the Cross River State have a hand in the situation in the state because they have prevented the governor from having an audience with the IPMAN leadership and got the government to set up a committee to mediate in any misunderstanding, but instead of resolving the matter, the unscrupulous persons are using the PTD to collect dues meant for IPMAN and even sharing the money among themselves and with some members of the mediating committee set up by state government. “What we have done today is line with IPMAN constitution and the judgment of the Supreme Court. We are the ones that have direct dealings with the NNPC depot. We buy the product, get a ticket and bring a vehicle to lift our product, but some people who want to impose themselves got the tanker drivers to now get IPMAN out of the depot. How can that be? We came to make sure there is peace, but to our greatest surprise, we heard and were shown an unsigned statement in the social media, credited to the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, claiming that IPMAN operations have been banned in Cross River State. That is not possible and assuming the governor gave such directive, he must have been wrongly advised”.