I have not seen in the league now,” he said. But while Rangers have continued to remain a household name in the domestic league, Shooting Stars have cut a sorry figure with all the allure vanished from the once highly followed club. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Oluyole Warriors have spent more seasons, in recent years, in the second- tier Nigeria National League than in the top flight NPFL. Analysts have blamed football administration in Nigeria and inclement system for the dead or struggling of the traditional clubs. For instance, one thing most of these defunct or struggling clubs have in common is that they were all privately funded or financed by big corporations in their heyday. Formed in 1972 as Western Nigeria Development Corporation (WNDC), Shooting Stars were later called Industrial Investment Credit Corporation (IICC) Shooting Stars of Ibadan. The nickname ‘Shooting Stars’ was added with the suggestion of team foundation members the late Jide Johnson and Niyi Omowon the “Aare Odan Liberty”, who believed that the players were “stars” in their own right. Nobody can believe that a club with such a rich history with honours such as five Nigeria topflight titles, four Federation Cup titles, two runners up medals in the CAF Champions League, one CAF Cup winners’ medal, one African Cup Winners’ Cup title and one winners medal in West African Club Championship (UFOA Cup) could be reeling in the obscure lower league for such a long time. Also, such notable managers like Adegboye Onigbinde, Franklin Howard, Jossy Ladipo, Fatai Amoo, among others, attesting to the strength of the Oluyole Warriors. Meanwhile, after crashing out of the Federation Cup recently, Coach Edith Agoye, former player of the team, vowed that their attention had been shifted to gaining promotion to the topflight having been relegated penultimate season just one year then after making a return. ”Our focus should now be on the important promotion battle. We cannot afford to miss promotion this season. If we get to the next stage of the Aiteo Cup and miss promotion, our people will not forgive us,” said the tactician. “We have an important match against Giant Brillar on Sunday which we must win, therefore we should concentrate on preparing for the game, so that we can come out smoking on Sunday,” Agoye added. Meanwhile, at the end of the regular season of the NNL, Shooting Stars, Gombe United, Real Stars, Kada City, Kogi United, Delta Force, Bendel Insurance and Remo Stars made it to the playoff where the four clubs that would match to the topflight would be decided. A 0-3 loss in a decisive promotional playoff against little known Akwa Starlet meant that Shooting Stars would have to wait quite longer to make a return to the Nigerian topflight. Meanwhile, the failure forced the top officials of the Oluyole Warriors to resign from the club. The trio of general manager Rasheed Balogun, team manager Dimeji Lawal and head coach Agoye resigned from their position with the Club, after failure to gain promotion. “It was a difficult decision for me to take going by the strong attachment I have with the players, technical crew, backroom staff, supporters, and fans. “I thank the Oyo State Government for giving me the opportunity to serve, I wish the club good luck in its future endeavors,” Balogun told the media. Meanwhile, Warri Wolves, Jigawa Golden Stars, Adamawa United and Akwa Starlets were promoted to the Nigeria professional football league next season from the Nigeria National league. While many factors have been adduced as to why the once famous club had continued to underperform, money factor has been pinpointed as the main challenge confronting the team A player of the club revealed to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT on anonymity that the players were ready to give everything to reposition the club, but blamed the Stars’ recurring challenges to financial inadequacy, as the players are not paid regularly. “Can you believe that a colleague in this club was ejected from his house because of N300, 000 and he could not pay?. Let me tell you, the main problem with us here is finance. Even the coaches know this but because everyone wants to keep his job, they will not say anything,” revealed the defender, who said that he was on his way out of the Shooting Stars. Another player, who also craved anonymity, said that the previous governments in the state have made Shooting Stars the least of their problems, praying that the current government would give attention to the former CAF Champions League finalists. “Since I joined this club, no government has giving it attention; in fact, this club is the least of their problems and you can see the result,” he said. Asked what led to them losing 0-3 to Akwa Starlet, which effectively ended their chances of promotion, he said: “We tried our best but that day was not just our day. Football is like that sometimes because we seriously desired that promotion and also to sell ourselves in the NPFL,” he regretted. However, a recent report claimed Shooting Stars are in the habit of selling promising players to better clubs without plughing back such proceed to help the team grow. This, SATURDAY INDEPENDENT gathered, is not peculiar to Shooting Stars alone, as other NPFL clubs, it was gathered , have thriving academies to groom young talents but end up selling such players abroad. It has been revealed that such players as Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho, Samuel Chukwueze, Henry Onyekuru, Taiwo Awoniyi and a host of other young Nigerian players thriving in Europe at the moment all left from academies or amateur clubs in the country. The professional clubs do not appear to scout players with potential sell-on value like clubs in Holland, Portugal and the smaller leagues in Europe do. In the case of Shooting Stars, our correspondent gathered that the Oyo State Government, through the Ministry of Sports, are only interested in the proceed from the sale of any budding talent without taking a recourse on how the transaction could benefit the club. Similar thing allegedly happened in Rangers International sometimes ago under the then government of Sulivan Chime. It was reported that the club sold a player to a North African club with a huge return only for the Ministry of Sports to rule the club out in the entire transaction and disbursement of the money, leading to dissenting voices in the club. Meanwhile, opinion leaders and stakeholders in Shooting Stars have asked the present administration in Oyo State to look the way of the club, with Mutiu Adepoju, former 3SC midfielder, calling on Governor Seyi Makinde to use his good office to revive the club. Adepoju noted that in the governor’s job creation drive, Shooting Stars would be a veritable tool. For the records, Shooting Stars have been in the CAF Champions League on five occasions – 1972, 1981, 1984, 1996, 1999, where they finished as runners up twice but exited at the first hurdle also thrice. In the CAF Cup (Confederation Cup), they were champions in 1992, exited in the first round in 1993 and reached the second round in 1995. They appeared four times in the Cup Winners Cup, where they were crowned champions in 1976, semifinalists in 1977, first rounder in 1978 and quarterfinalists in 1980 to cap their rich vein of performance in the continent.