TONY ELUEMUNOR Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I know that many people have not linked the death of the policemen some soldiers killed in Taraba State with Mr. Omoyele Sowore’s, detention, not illegally of course, as the Department of State Services (DSS) acquired a valid court order before committing him to the detention. When Nigerians were fawning over former President Olusegun Obasanjo, I was among the first to say he was a danger to Nigerian democracy. I was the first to say that he and his goons were plotting to attempt to change the Nigerian Constitution to allow him a Third Term tenure elongation. When many columnists who still write today were trying to pull wool over our eyes by insisting that the issue by 2006 was not whether Obasanjo wanted a Third Term, but whether Nigeria had people who were good enough to take over from him. I retorted; “When Did Obasanjo Walk on Water?” On Sunday May 28, 2004, I wrote that no matter what Obasanjo would do, Third Term must flop. Even before the public believed that a Third Term attempt was on, a fight against it had already started, but not even journalists noticed. When I broke the story in year 2002 that the former Vice President Alex Ekwueme would challenge Obasanjo by contesting the PDP primaries, it sounded outlandish. The 1999 -2007 Governor of Delta State, Chief James Onanefe Ibori, was the kingpin of the make-Ekwueme-President-in-2003 scheme. Well, the 2003 primaries came and Ekwueme lost for reasons too lengthy to discuss here and now. But, it must be stated that not even Ibori’s attempt to get the governors of the South East to get their states to still vote for Ekwueme in the primaries, and he would throw in Delta State behind Ekwueme, just so that Ekwueme would not be disgraced, received any consideration. He sent each of them a text message, by I.pm that day at the Eagle Square, venue of the convention. When none had replied by 3 pm, he called me and showed me the text message. Uche Awom, a journalist, was with me, so he remains my witness. Ibori added that he knew the text message must have been shown to Obasanjo by then. Then he added: “Tony, I have played my role in the attempt to make Ekwueme, an Igbo man, President. Tony, you and your Igbo brothers and sisters will sweat before an Igboman will become President. Mark my word.”   The sweat is still pouring down. I know the Igbo presidency issue will still heat up come 2023, but that is when I suspect the Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-Rufai, to come forcefully into reckoning. El-Rufai was the puppeteer, Ribadu was his puppet and that game in which several former state Governors were rubbished was not played to produce an Igbo President. It was a power game which changed Nigeria. Now, what has anything I have written above to do with the killing of the Policemen in Taraba State? Now let me explain; Nigerians condemned that killing, but forgot their love of jungle justice. What if those policemen were not fully documented to have been policemen on duty? Nigerians would have applauded those who killed them. What if there was no overwhelming evidence that the policemen had already apprehended their quarry? Nigerians would have excused the killer soldiers who gunned them down, arguing that there is “no smoke without fire.” Now, in what way does that have anything to do with Sowore? Sahara Reporters which Sowore superintended over, was the king and queen of jungle journalism which had embraced the jungle justice way of doing things, and raised the naming and shaming of people in a certain political bloc, to an insane level. Sahara Reporters would just manufacture a lie and Nigerians would, like brainless simpletons, embrace it. What actually happened was that the EFCC of the Ribadu era would dream up an allegation and Sahara Reporters and their fellow way travellers in the main stream of Nigerian journalism would amplify it. I had cause to engage Azu Ishiekwene, then of PUNCH newspapers, on the lies people had foisted on people like Ibori. I mentioned Ishiekwene because he was among those who foisted Ribadu on Nigerians as a saint. And I don’t know whether he was paid handsomely, or not. Today, Sowore and those who make an issue of his detention, will never remember that there is a link between what Sowore is going through right now and what the former Governor of Bayelsa state, Depriye Alamiesiegha, not only went through, but lost his life in the process. Alamieseigha had undergone a surgery in Germany, but the wound had not healed when he was arrested in London on corruption charges. Charges, charges, charges, mind you. The London Metropolitan Police held him there for months. Then when tired of the allegations, Britain put Alamieyeseigha on a plane and flew him down. Ribadu and Sowore raised a hoopla. There was a nation-wide din against the man. Ribadu’s EFCC sequestered the Bayelsa House of Assembly until the man was impeached, not over any corruption charge, but over the allegation that Alamieyeseigha returned from London dressed as a woman. That was the sole charge. But does any fool now believe that in year 2005, it was possible for anybody to board a plane in London dressed as a cat or goat and no CCTV camera would have captured him? And over a decade after, Ribadu has not told us which Airline flew him down? And we have not been shown the forged passport he used? And have the Ishiekwenes and the Segun Adeniyis and Simeon Kolawoles of this world asked such questions or demanded such evidences? Those soldiers in Taraba gave jungle justice to those Policemen. Sowore and other journalists and top lawyers such as Femi Falanas have been engaging in another sort of jungle justice for years. Actually, in April this year, Falana did it against Ibori and it has been trending on the internet. I think it is now time for me to reply … now that Femi Falana is marching against jungle justice. Sowore is lucky. If somebody else was being detained, and Ribadu was involved and the sweet droppings were right and ripe, Sahara Reporters would have manufactured crimes; that he was acting even for the devil in an attempt to incinerate Nigeria –for dollars in a bank that would never be named. He would also mention documents that would never be published.  Last week, some IPOB members attacked Senator Ike Ekweremadu in Germany. One of them raved in a trending video that the Senator should have stayed home to protect his people being killed and women raped by herdsmen. I wish someone could ask that fool why himself was in Germany if he knew his people needed protection against herdsmen. Another question: Hey, did Ribadu arrest any Senator or Representative for collecting bribery to support the Third Term? Did he arrest those who bribed them? Has he ever condemned it? So, much for anti-corruption crusade. Why did I mention Ibori? I did because he is a major evidence of the damage these people did. Or how many Nigerians would believe that Obasanjo told Ibori: “all your life, I will make you unsalable, unmarketable and unelectable”, just for supporting Ibori. The Thursday after the primiaries, I pursued Ibori to the Abuja airport to warn him that Abuja was planning to deal with him. Less than a month later, the allegation was manufactured that Ibori was once convicted in 1995 for “criminal negligence” as his staff stole zinc asbestos (whatever that could mean) during the construction of Lower Usuma Dam. Hey, the dam was fully constructed by 1984 and started supplying Abuja water two years later. And what did Ibori not suffer for supporting Ekwueme?  Well, the rest is history.