The new honourable minister of sports, Sunday Dare cannot be said to be different from the previous ministers who have held sway at the ministry. I say this because not much has been said about his antecedent sports wise; which gives credence to the already perceived impression that the sports ministry has since remained an all comers area of designation, probably to settle political allies or as a means of compensation for colleagues of same ideological affiliation. Right from the regime of ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo the ministry of Sports had suffered so much from neophyte administrators and this anomaly has not in any way helped in the development of our sports. The major reason all of them had concentrated on football, which they seem to know as the only sport in the country. When you talk of other sports in terms of development, attending tournaments outside Nigeria, it is like when one is trying to be left handed at old age. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Though, when they assumed office, they would talk in sugarcoated tongues regarding sports development and getting corporate and individual sponsorships as government alone cannot in one swoop embark on sports development. Therefore in this light, every sport in Nigeria will get equal treatment to advance the course of sports in the country and that they have come to serve Nigeria under this premise. All lies! As soon as they sat down proper in their offices all they had said will be summarized only into football leagues and tournaments – making all the sports ministers hitherto “Football Ministers”. And the most painful aspect of this one particular sport-football governance- is that even the so called football development had come under serious bashing and under-development under their noses. Nigerian football in the eyes of our sports ministers had lacked brilliant administration; hence, controversy, corruption, confusion, disaffection, mediocrity, partisan politics, nepotism, self aggrandisement, pride, corruption and other vices have marred football administration in the country and this had remained a major focus of the public over their governance!. Yours truly won’t be reluctant to tell the new minister of sports that he just stepped into a controversial terrain, where he can only apply the dynamics of leadership to excel otherwise, he will not do better than his predecessors, and especially the one he is taking over from whose leadership was more of failure than success related. Little wonder, he did not make a comeback to the ministry. Nigerians love the game of football in all categories, this is a fact. It is also a fact that Nigerians like other sports as well; hence, Nigeria has other athletes that are mostly not footballers but in the other sports which have been seriously ignored, neglected or abandoned for reasons only known to these failed sports ministers. By the time you ignore those lesser sports, invariably you are ignoring their athletes who are also Nigerians, the stakeholders, fans, spectators and projecting Nigeria as a country without human development capacity in those areas in the comity of sports nations across the continent and the globe at large even where small countries are making waves. In this vein, I would want the minister of sport to search for good personnel who are well grounded in sports administration to assist to bring honour to the country and project Nigeria in good light. And until this is done in no distant time, it is not yet uhuru for minister Sunday Dare!