ABEOKUTA – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Monday insisted that, Prince Dapo Abiodun remained the authentic winner of the March 9 governorship election held in Ogun State. INEC’s counsel, Teslim Adewuyi, stated this while adopting his final written address at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abeokuta. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The governorship candidate of Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Hon. Adekunle Akinlade, had in a petition marked EPT/ OG/GOV/01/2019 challenged the March 9 governorship election in the state and urged the court to cancel the election for alleged over voting and falsification of documents. But, the electoral umpire explained that the report of alleged over voting by the petitioner was not proved beyond reasonable doubt. Barr. Adewuyi maintained that the 34 witnesses presented by the petitioner in 142 polling units were not substantial enough to invalidate the result of the election. Also speaking on the falsification of education credentials, the lead counsel to Prince Dapo Abiodun who is the second respondent, Professor Taiwo Osipitan, said there was no iota justification to identify falsification of academic documents before the tribunal. Osipitan explained further that the second respondent did not claim to have graduated from University of Ife in the nomination form. He said the petitioner’s claim of credentials falsification was not relevant with the 2019 election matter, saying the Section 138 sub-section (1e) of the 2010 electoral Act cited by the petitioner in the final written address was in conflict with the Nigerian Constitution and was not enough to call for cancellation of the election in the 142 polling units. According to him, the provision of the constitution supersedes any Act that is in conflict with the constitution. “My Lord, the petitioner claimed that the second respondent presented a false information in the forms CF 001 that he went to OAU. The second respondent never claimed to have graduated from University of Ife, but said he only attended the university which the University’s authority or registrar has not denied. There’s difference between graduating from university and attending a university. INEC didn’t ask if he graduated from OAU. They only asked the school he attended which he went further to say he attended OAU.”