Rashida Tlaib is one of four representatives elected in the 2018 midterms who have since made a name for themselves for their criticism of the president, which prompted him to pen a series of now infamous tweets to tell the US nationals they should “go back and help fix” their “broken and crime-infested countries”. Michigan politician Ms Tlaib had his daughter in her sights on Sunday night, with the White House adviser having urged people to “raise our voices in rejection of these heinous and cowardly acts of hate, terror and violence” following the deaths of 29 people in separate mass shootings over the weekend. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ms Trump wrote on Twitter: “As our nation mourns the senseless loss of life in El Paso, Texas and Dayton, Ohio and prays for the victims and their loved ones, we must also raise our voices in rejection of these heinous and cowardly acts of hate, terror and violence. “White supremacy, like all other forms of terrorism, is an evil that must be destroyed.” Ms Tlaib, who was the first Palestinian-American woman to be elected to Congress, quoted the first comment to tell the businesswoman that her “prayers are not working”. She added: “Try checking your dad on his tweets. 251 mass shootings in the US in 216 days. He incites violence every day w/ his hate agenda & racism. More people are dying b/c he fails to fight white supremacist terrorists. They are the ones who hate America.” Mr Trump has faced accusations of encouraging white nationalism and anti-immigrant sentiment since the shootings, which happened within hours of each other. Last month, “The Squad” of Ms Tlaib, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley and Ilhan Omar accused the president of leading America with “the agenda of a white nationalist”. The Republican said after the shootings that “hate has no place in our country”, but conceded that “perhaps more needs to be done” amid heightened calls for tighter gun control laws. He said that the gunmen were “really very seriously mentally ill”, adding that shootings have been happening “for years and years” and “we have to get it stopped”. The suspect in the Texas shooting, which saw 20 people killed at a Walmart supermarket in the city of El Paso, has been named as Patrick Crusius. Officials are investigating a “hate-filled” online post they believe was published by the 21-year-old, which appears to describe his motives and expresses extreme anti-immigrant and racist views, particularly against Hispanics. Crusius could face the death penalty if convicted over the massacre on Saturday morning, which was followed in the early hours of Sunday by a similar rampage at a bar in Dayton, Ohio. Nine people were killed and 26 were injured by gunman Connor Betts, 24, with his 22-year-old sister Megan among those who died.