Juventus walked away with a silver medal in the Women’s Cup, after Paris Saint-Germain claimed a 4-0 victory over the Italian Champions in the final of the tournament. The Bianconere qualified for the final of the Women’s Cup after they swept aside Zurich in the first match of the tournament, securing a 4-0 result. Rita Guarino then opted for a different looking starting XI for this fixture, by welcoming the return of Sara Gama in defence, while Galli and Cernoia returned to the heart of the midfield. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The two teams pulled off a pretty equal display in the opening 25 minutes of the game, but neither had managed to find the back of the net. The game started to open up after the half hour mark, and chances eventually arrived on either end. Bacic was called into making a big save in the 31st minute, when she parried away Huitema’s effort that was taken from the edge of the box. Caruso then came really close to breaking the deadlock when some quick passing around the box by the Bianconere resulted in her taking aim, but her effort went out at the far post. PSG then broke through on the counter and turned the scoreline 1-0 in their favour in the 34th minute through Lea Khelifi. Barbara Bonansea went off injured just before the break, with Andrea Straskova coming in, but there was still time for PSG to double the lead through Huitema’s volley, which sailed down the middle of the goal four minutes from time. PSG then went 3-0 up in the 58th minute of the game when the ball was taken off the feet of Pedersen. This allowed Huitema to receive the ball on the edge of the area unmarked, and she took a run before firing her second goal into the back of the net. A penalty was awarded to the Parisians in the 73rd minute after Sara Gama was judged to have brought down a player. Nadia Nadim stood up to take the penalty, and she made no mistake, converting with ease from the spot to make it 4-0. That would be the final goal of the game, as the result ended in favour of the French outfit. Juventus XI: Bacic; Hyyrynen, Gama, Sembrant, Panzeri; Galli, Cernoia, Rosucci (Pedersen 46’); Girelli (Aluko 58’), Bonansea (Straskova 38’), Caruso (Sikora 58’)