ABUJA – South-South youths chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday reacted to the allegation that some Bayelsa state governorship aspirants want to cause mayhem in the forthcoming primary. The group, under the aegis of South South PDP Youth Vanguard, pointed out that the primary will be peaceful, but Governor Seriake Dickson has to allow for a level playing field, as they are the ones causing mayhem over the primary. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The South South PDP youths said that their attention was drawn to a statement credited to an unknown disgruntle group led by one Chief Jasper Timiebi, which specifically accused a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Chief Ndutimi Alaibe, and Dr. Chris Osaisai, among others, of plotting to cause mayhem in the state ahead of the party’s primary on September 3. In the statement, the unknown group, according to PDP youths, had claimed that Alaibe and others had devised a plot to cause premeditated violence and instability in the state with the intent to arm-twist national leadership of the PDP to move the primary to Abuja or the neighbouring Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The PDP youths, in a statement by its Chairman, James Efe Akpofure said “ordinarily we would not have reacted to the statement, but, because we want to set the record straight, we have to reply those, who are bent on manipulating the forthcoming Bayelsa state governorship primary. “Recall that on Wednesday we cautioned the state governor, Seriake Dickson and the state Chairman, Mr Cleopas Moses, not to destabilise the party. “Our warning came on the heel of a report that the state chairman, Mr. Moses had openly endorsed the candidate preferred by the state governor, Mr Dickson, a development that is generating anger among the PDP governorship aspirants in the state. “We had also warned against therecentutterancesof thestate Chairman and the trending video of Governor Dickson, that the governor should not go the way of the former governors of Ogun and Imo States, who lost the last governorship elections because they wanted to foist their candidates on the people. “We can see the hands of mischief makers in the allegation that Alaibe and others are trying to cause mayhem in the forthcoming primary, in a bid to move the primary to Abuja or the neighbouring Port Harcourt, Rivers State