TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, SULAIMAN FASASI , AKINWUMI K ING, CHINYERE ABIAZIEM Police in Ogun State have confirmed the abduction of five persons by suspected kidnappers at the J3/J4 Area, Ogbere, along Benin- Ijebu-Ode-Sagamu Expressway. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Saturday INDEPENDENT confirmed the names of the abductees to include Chidioze Eluwa, Chiemela Iroha, Okoro Ohowukwe, Ndubuizi Owuabueze and Ibeleji Chidinma. However, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, had announced on Friday, the abduction of five pastors of the Church on their way to the annual Holy Ghost convention. The General Overseer said this is the first time such incident of that magnitude was happening. “As a father, how do you think I should feel to hear that five of my children have been kidnapped while on their way to attend the Ministers Conference?” he asked. But confirming the incident to Saturday INDEPENDENT, the Police Public Relations Officers (PPRO) of the Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said he cannot immediately confirm if those abductees are pastors of RCCG. The PPRO said the abductees were traveling from the eastern part of the country when the commercial bus they were traveling in was blocked around 3a.m on Thursday by the gunmen numbering about 10, at a location shortly after the boundary between Ogun and Ondo State. Speaking further on the abduction, the PPRO explained that the gunmen, after forcing the vehicle to a halt, whisked away four men and a woman into the forest, leaving the driver, an old passenger and his wife in the vehicle. He said, “On the 1st of August 2019, at about 3:30 pm, the Ogun State police command received an information that a commercial vehicle with registration number KW 230 XA belonging to Abia line transport company was coming from the Eastern part of the country heading towards Lagos, on getting to J3 area of Ogbere, some hoodlums numbering about 10 suddenly came out of the forest and forcefully stopped the vehicle. “Five amongst the passengers namely Chidioze Eluwa, Chiemela Iroha, Okoro Ohowukwe, Ndubuizi Owuabueze, and Ibeleji Chidinma, were abducted and taken to the forest.” The PPRO however, said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Bashir Makama, has personally led the rescue team to the location, adding that the police were closing on the abductors. He added that the police have been able to survey the forest and the possible hideout of the abductors aerially, with the aid of the police helicopter from the police headquarters in Abuja. According to him, the rescue team was getting close to the location of the kidnappers, saying caution would be exercised by the team in order not to jeopardise the lives of the victims during the rescue operation. He said. “The Commissioner of police, Bashir Makama is personally leading the operation to rescue the victims with operatives from the command’s tactical squads combing the entire area. “The hideout of the hoodlums has been located but our men are trying to be tactical and professional in order not to jeopardise the lives of the victims we are making efforts to rescue. “With the operation going on presently, we are rest assured that the victims will soon regain their freedom and the hoodlums will definitively be brought to book.” Reacting to the incidence, Bishop Theophilus Ajose, founder of Bishop Ajose Ministries International, Director of the Social Security Outreach and Intergovernmental Relations (SSO/IGR), Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Lagos State Chapter, said the menace of kidnapping has gone beyond the ordinary. He viewed that Christians should look at it from a spiritual angle and therein embark on spiritual approach to dislodge every agenda of the kingdom of darkness against Nigeria. “It is worrisome that kidnapping has become the order of the day in our nation. The challenge has indeed taken a spiritual dimension. This shows that the church needs to pray more and cry unto God for divine intervention in destroying the altars that have been raised against the peace of our dear nation,” he stated. Meanwhile, former Nigerian Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, has challenged Pastor Adeboye to condemn and renounce President Muhammadu Buhari. Fani-Kayode, who was reacting to the abduction of the five pastors of the RCCG and the murder of a Catholic priest, on his verified twitter handle, @ realFFK, maintained the news of the abduction was a sad one. According to him, “Five Redeemed Church of God Pastors abducted in Ijebu- Ode. This is so sad. Pastor Osinbajo of RCCG, over to you. Is Buhari still your Messiah? “Do you still want us to be praying for the Fulani herdsmen? How many more people do they have to slaughter and abduct before your eyes open?” he queried. Fani-Kayode wrote further, “Dear Sir, it is time for you to condemn and renounce Buhari. If not, this madness will NOT stop.” Reacting to the murder of a Catholic priest allegedly by Fulani terrorists in Enugu Friday, the former minister explained that the recent incident provides yet another example of “the barbaric and homicidal disposition of the herdsmen. “I wonder how clerics like Kukah and Mbaka, who consistently defend the atrocities of these vagrant beasts, feel about this latest act of wickedness. “Those who target innocent and defenseless women, children and clerics for butchery and slaughter are nothing but cold-blooded killers and wholesale cowards who are too weak and timid to take on real men in battle. “Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State is a well-bred, well-educated, disciplined, civilised and accomplished man whose intelligence, integrity, fortitude and courage, is second to none. “His passing into law a new Bill in Oyo State curbing the activities of Fulani Herdsmen is an excellent example of his commitment to establishing peace and peaceful co-existence in his state and of protecting his people. “In him, the Yoruba have a refreshing, rising and bright new star who will provide strong and purposeful leadership over the years. I wish him well!” he tweeted. The Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun had revealed that a joint security team that would patrol major roads and provide adequate security to the people of the Southwest part of the country would soon be set up. Abiodun described the recent abduction as worrisome, at a day Sensitisation Programme on the Vision and Focus of the State Government Towards the Preparation of the 2020 Budget held on Friday at the Obas Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Abiodun said Governors in the region have been brainstorming on how to tackle the menace, as no serious investors would come when they are not sure of the security of their lives and that of their investments. He said the amended Security Trust Fund Bill would be sent to the State House of Assembly for legislative action, saying it would embrace major stakeholders and allow Managers take decisions without waiting for directive from him. In a related development, the Archbishop, Enugu Ecclesiastical Province, Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Bishop Emmanuel Chukwuma has charged the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu to increase the number of police officers in Enugu State. Chukwuma made the call on Friday while briefing newsmen after an emergency State Security Council Meeting in Enugu. The meeting followed the killing of a Catholic priest, Rev. Fr. Paul Offu on Thursday, Aug. 1, 2019 along Ihe-Agbudu Road in Awgu Local Government Area of the state. The bishop said that the inadequacy of the number of police officers in the state, particularly, in the rural areas made the call imperative. He said that religious leaders in the state were sad about the development and warned that such would not be tolerated again. “No priest should be killed in the state again as there will be no sparing of anybody that does that,” he said. Chukwuma appealed to the police commissioner to enlighten the divisional police officers in the state, adding that underperforming ones must be removed. He said that in spite of recent breakdown of security in the state, residents of the area needed not fear as Enugu was still very safe. A representative of the Catholic Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Rev. Fr. Nnamdi Nwankwo, said that it was sad that the denomination had been at the receiving end of the security breakdown. Nwankwo said that two Catholic Church priests had been killed and one battered with gun shots in the last eight months. “We are sad and here to dialogue with the state government to find out how to handle the situation. “So many people have been abducted in the last five years. “We do not want to live in fear. They are doing their business; we are doing our business and no one should suffer,” Nwankwo said. NAN further reports that the deceased, who hails from Okpatu in Udi Local Government Area of the state, until his death, was the parish priest of St. James the Greater Parish, Ugbawka in Nkanu West Local Government. The security meeting was attended by heads of all security agencies in the state. Also speaking after the meeting in respect of the killing of Rev. Fr. Paul Offu the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Sulaiman Balarabe disclosed on Friday that security agencies will commence joint air surveillance around major forests suspected to be hideout of hoodlums in the state from August 5. Balarabe disclosed that after an emergency security meeting with the state governor, Chief Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. He assured that the joint surveillance would further strengthen the security architecture of the affected areas. He said that the meeting approved the employment of forest guards as well as strengthened the neighborhood watch groups in the state. The police commissioner said that the state government and security agencies in the state condemned the killing of the priest. Balarabe said that the state government had set up a committee on the proliferation of illegal arms, adding that those in possession of illegal weapons had three days to submit them to the committee. Heads of all military and paramilitary agencies as well as some religious leaders in the state attended the meeting at the Government House, Enugu.