Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a public affairs analyst is a former governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State. A firm believer in the SMART agenda programme of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Onuesoke in this interview speaks on the recent appointments made by the governor and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: Governor Ifeanyi Okowa last week inaugurated his cabinet. Are you impressed with the team he has put together to assist him in running the government of Delta State? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network With the new cabinet in place, you should know that Governor Okowa is usually out for a stronger Delta. The last crop of commissioners were among the best Okowa could have picked for his SMART agenda. There is no way one can situate the present appointed commissioners with those who served during his first term. The agenda is different. But like I said, the first term cabinet members performed creditably well and I believe that these new ones will assist the governor in achieving a more strong Delta state for all. For those of us who have been with the governor, he is a visionary leader who usually looks for competent, trusted hands to work with. I believe he has done that with this cabinet and he will do the same with other appointments. There have been criticisms in some quarters over the appointments of the new cabinet members. What is your take on that? Like I have stated earlier in my press conferences so far since the appointment galore started, I do not want the public to judge Okowa’s appointees because what one should consider in the first place is the ethnic colourations of the state. It is absolutely premature for any right thinking Deltan who is conversant with the day to day running of Government to blame Okowa. I was the first Deltan who advised against counter claims on the appointments by the governor. I do not like to mention names but I think it is not proper to descend so low to rain abuses on Okowa for now that his cabinet doesn’t reflect the true state of the ethnic stock composition of the state. Those who are complaining should understand that political appointment is not an economic investment but it is just a necessity to drive policies. If those against Okowa are saying the state should emphasise on the economy of political appointment as an index for development, then I will totally fight and go against their views. Are you confident the new crop of commissioners will perform and what will be your advice to them? Yes, they will perform as long as they can abide by the rules of engagement and the budgetary discipline of the state. All we need to do is discipline ourselves and to know that being a commissioner doesn’t make you above the laws of the land or a kind of super human above the people. As a commissioner, you are not appointed to better your constituency but the state as a whole. As a commissioner, do not look at yourself as super human; not only that you are not a super human but also a servant appointed by the governor to serve the state irrespective of your ministry. It should not be a fiesta galore but a position to elevate the standard of the state. I also want to use this medium to advise the youths not to look unto the commissioners appointed by Okowa from their constituency as a source of empowering them with Government money made for their various ministries.