The Kremlin on Tuesday shrugged off five weeks of street protests in
support of free elections in Moscow, saying the situation had not
warranted comment from President Vladimir Putin and voicing strong
support for the tough police response, according to Reuters.com
reports. The demonstrations over a planned election for the Moscow city
legislature in September have turned into the biggest sustained
protest movement in Russia since 2011-2013, when protesters took to
the streets against perceived electoral fraud. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Police have briefly detained over 2,000 people, launched criminal
cases against around a dozen people for mass disorder, handed short
jail terms to almost the entire entourage of opposition politician
Alexei Navalny, and used force to disperse what they said were illegal
protests. On Saturday, and despite the crackdown, around 60,000 people took to
Moscow’s streets for what a monitoring group called Russia’s biggest
political protest for eight years. However, Putin has yet to comment on the unrest and the Kremlin’s
comments on Tuesday were its first. “We do not agree with those many people who call what is happening a
political crisis,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters in
answer to a question. “Protests happen in many countries of the world. They are provoked by
specific issues,” he said, pointing to demonstrations in Europe, where
Russian state media often focus on protests in France by the so-called
“yellow vests”. Video footage of how Russian police have dispersed protests has
sometimes stirred anger among Russians who believe the authorities
have used excessive force. “FIRM ACTION”
But Peskov said tough police action at the rallies had been justified.
Individual cases of police excess as well as alleged violence by
protesters against police were being looked into, he said. “We believe firm action by law enforcement to curb public unrest was
absolutely justified,” said Peskov, adding that he believed the police
were fulfilling their duty to uphold law and order. The focus of protesters’ anger is a prohibition on a slew of
opposition-minded candidates, some of whom are allies of Navalny, from
taking part in the September election in Moscow, which is seen as a
dry run for a national parliamentary election due in 2021. Authorities say the opposition candidates failed to collect enough
genuine signatures to register. The excluded candidates say that is a
lie and insist on taking part in a contest they believe they could
win. The ruling United Russia party’s popularity rating is at its lowest
since 2011 and Putin’s own personal rating has also declined due to
discontent over falling living standards. However, at well over 60%, it is still high compared to many other
world leaders. Putin, who first came to power in 1999 and is now 66,
won re-election last year on a landslide with a six-year term that
only ends in 2024.