Mohammed Audu, son of the late Prince Abubakar Audu, former Governor of Kogi state, in this interview with TONY EZIMAKOR said he is confident of emerging as the flagbearer of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and eventually winning the November 16 governorship election in the state. He also said the people of the state are united in their quest to oust the incumbent governor, Yahaya Bello. Excerpts; How has the campaign been especially when we talk about the security situation in Kogi state? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The campaigns have been very interesting. I have been witnessing campaigns in Kogi state since 1998 and I have been around during all those campaigns. The atmosphere has not been as depressing as it is now because Kogites have been left in a very hopeless state. Their economy is in shambles and they have no money to sustain themselves. So, they are not even energetic. The only source of energy is when we appear for campaigns when they get some kind of relief. What they keep telling us is, please take us out of this situation. The campaigns have been very interesting because at the point of campaigns, we are very sure of victory. They already knew who they don’t want and who they want and the reasons are very obvious. I don’t know if anybody anywhere can manipulate any election and think he is going to go away with it in Kogi. If you manipulate Kogi election, you will have blood on your hands because of the people who have died of untold hardship. Are you referring to manipulation at the primary level or the main election and what will be the factors that will determine the outcome of the main election. When I talk about manipulation, I am sure that you know that everything Gov. Bello does, he manipulate. He would want to manipulate the primary election, he would want to manipulate the general election, he would want to manipulate the budget of the state. Everything he does, he manipulates. That is what I mean and no one will be able to get away with manipulating this process. However, I am happy that the party is giving considerations to the various mode of primaries. We know that once the party fulfill its promise to carry out a transparent, free and fair process of selecting a candidate for the party, I can assure you that the outcome of the November election will be very swift and very decisive. The PDP know that they don’t stand a chance and I can promise you that by 12 mid-day on election day, the PDP would have already known their fate and APC would also have known their fate. Anything to the contrary will be a dream. If the people are not happy with the process, we would have given the opposition the advantage. That is all they are praying for, to use APC against APC because that is the only way they stand a chance at victory. Otherwise, if the APC is together and one house and emerge successfully from this process, they will be unbeatable. So, if Yahaya Bello wins the primary, will you consider decamping to another party? I don’t understand what you mean. What I have told you is that if you allow a people oriented process, all of us will support that process without questions. But what we know and we are telling you from Kogi state is that a people oriented process, a free and fair process will definitely not be producing Yahaya Bello. These are no rumours. Go every local government area in the state and ask their opinion. If you think that Yahaya Bello stands a chance, go to Kogi and ask the people what they want. It is not about paid job of appearing on television and saying different kind of things. Ask the civil servants, ask the pensioners, ask the family men, ask the children in school whether any system is working in Kogi state. If we have another four years of this, there will be no state because everybody would have died of conditions that are very bad because they are suffering. I can assure you that no right thinking Kogi man wishes, in his wildest dreams, to have Bello return as governor, no matter the circumstance. If you see Bello come back, he would have forced himself on the people. From your family, there are more than one person running for governor on the APC ticket. Is that not a sign of division right from home? I don’t agree with you. When you go into a family and everybody is a lawyer, why don’t you say it is a sign of division? I can tell you something. We all have our different ways of going about our aspirations. My brother is a younger person who feels that he can use the energy of a young man to orchestrate a mass movement and ensure that Bello is removed. I have my own experience and I want to ensure that Bello is removed. There is another one of us who wants to ensure that Bello is removed. The uniting factor here is that we all want to remove Bello. I don’t think you should look at it as disunity. We are not fighting or quarrelling, but agreed on one thing which is that Bello must go. You spoke about a transparent process of primary and the party has opted for the indirect mode. Do you think that the process will be transparent? First, I must tell you that I am a loyal party man and whatever my party adopts, I will support them. Now, in this particular instance, not only do I support my party, I am indifferent to any process that you bring, whether direct or indirect. The bottomline is that the sentiments that I have expressed tells you that head we win, tail, they lose. Whichever way you turn the coin, we win. But there is a snag and I have said this over and over again. My heart is with our party men in Zamfara. After having sleepless nights campaigning, spending a lot of resources, doing so much for the victory of the party, one party will be locking around the corner waiting for you to make mistake and capitalise on it and at the end of the day, you lose everything that you have worked for. This is what I am particularly worried about. We might go through the indirect primary, defeat Bello, but the case between the two executives may be such that if it favours one, it might nullify everything that we have done. The fact is that we are not willing to take the risk of finding out who is right and who is wrong. This is the issue we have with using a particular set of exco to conduct the primary. The thing to do to deepen internal democracy in Nigeria is to follow what President Muhammadu Buhari has done. He said that in order to avoid any controversy of his nomination, allow a direct primary process where every card carrying member of the party will come forward to decide who their candidate should be. It went without rancour and sentiments and he emerged. Kogi is a state with different tribe, different religious calling and different beliefs, but all of them are united in one course and that is the course for good governance. They are happy to be given an opportunity. It will be an internal party referendum which means that if you carry out that process successfully, whoever wins is as good as winning the general election because the followership of the APC far outweighs the followership of other parties put together. So, it will be an election before an election and I think it is a fantastic opportunity for the ruling party to show its strength. Audu