Tottenham Hotspur ended Manchester City’s European ambitions last season and they will be looking to dent Pep Guardiola’s side’s hopes of winning a third successive Premier League title when they meet at the Etihad Stadium this weekend. A rare setback in a near impeccable season from City came in April with a dramatic exit to Spurs in the Champions League quarterfinal. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network City won the second-leg 4-3 but went out on away goals after a late goal from Raheem Sterling, which would have sent City through, was dramatically ruled out for offside following a VAR video review. Just three days later the pair met again in the league as Guardiola’s side kept their title run on track with a 1-0 victory. Both teams began their Premier League campaigns in winning fashion with City sweeping aside West Ham United with a 5-0 win at London Stadium while Spurs struggled before emerging as 3-1 victors at home to promoted Aston Villa. City will be relieved that Spurs’ South Korean winger Son Heung-min will miss the game while he serves a three-game suspension. Son scored the only goal of the Champions League first leg and struck twice in the second-leg but Harry Kane, who missed the last two meetings, has begun the season in form with a double against Villa. Nobody doubted City before the season started and there really were no surprises in the way they dismantled West Ham. It showed again just how ruthless they are under Pep Guardiola. West Ham see themselves as a club aiming for the top 10 so you have to be fearful again for sides who aren’t as well oiled. It is a point that has been made a few times this week, but the 5-0 win over the Hammers really wasn’t that enjoyable. City were excellent but we knew that anyway. What isn’t particularly palatable is the way they can dominate without little resistance. West Ham, bless ’em, attempted to ‘play football’ but when you do that against City, you better be good at it. You have to move the ball quickly, stop them from passing through you and then find a way to score without conceding. There are perhaps only a handful of sides who can test City. Tottenham are absolutely one of those sides. It is what makes this match-up exciting. City won’t be dominant, they won’t stroll about knowing the opposition will struggle to hurt them, and they will, at times, be vulnerable. Raheem Sterling started the season brilliantly, scoring three of City’s five goals. Expect him again to be the player looking to pin back Tottenham’s defence. Tottenham’s issues in the full-back areas could help provide clear methods to goal for City. And don’t forget Sergio Aguero, who scored against West Ham, didn’t start last time out. Guardiola, no doubt, will have targeted the Tottenham game as the one where Aguero gets his first start of the season.