Liam Hemsworth and Miley Cyrus confirmed their split this weekend, parting ways after just less than a year of marriage. The couple, who were together for 10 years, released a statement via their representative over the weekend, explaining how they were going their separate ways. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ‘Ever-evolving, changing as partners and individuals, they have decided this is what’s best while they both focus on themselves and careers,’ the statement reads. ‘They still remain dedicated parents to all of their animals they share while lovingly taking this time apart. Please respect their process and privacy.’ The break up came as a huge shock to the public, with Twitter awash with sad responses, but it reportedly didn’t come as such a surprise to friends. While Miley has not explicitly referenced the split, instead posting cryptic Instagram posts about change, Liam broke his silence in an emotional statement, taking to his own social media platform to clear up rumours. ‘Hi all – Just a quick note to say that Miley and I have recently separated and I wish her nothing but health and happiness going forward’, Liam posted to his Instagram, alongside a photo of a sunset. ‘This is a private matter and I have not made, nor will I be making, any comments to any journalists or media outlets. Any reported quotes attributed to me are false. Peace and Love.’ Miley’s Instagram posts were more cryptic, with the ‘Malibu’ singer posting a series of photographs of herself walking in the mountains. ‘Don’t fight evolution, because you will never win,’ she posted alongside the photo of herself. ‘Like the mountain I am standing on top of, which was once underwater, connected with Africa, change is inevitable. The Dolomites were not created overnight; it was over millions of years that this magnificent beauty was formed.’ Her post continues: ‘My dad always told me “Nature never hurries, but it is always on time”. It fills my heart with peace and hope, knowing that is true. I was taught to respect the planet and its process, and I am committed to doing the same with my own.’ We’re sending our thoughts to Miley and Liam. 