Lagos – With 28 points from 24 matches heading into the last 14 league games, FC IfeanyiUbah were on the throes of relegation from the topflight when the league was suspended last season. They were eight points ahead of the bottom-placed Heartland who were obviously a sure candidate for the drop had last season allowed to run to the full. But the Anambra Warriors have risen to the challenge in the 2018/2019 abridged season with five wins, three draws and two losses in 10 games to dictate the pace at the summit of Group B of the season. Not even such big wigs as Akwa United, Plateau United and Kano Pillars can match their ferocity in their quest to be among the playoff candidates at the end of the season. The Anambra Warriors started the season with a date against recent champions, Plateau United, in Jos in a match the home side were tipped to win but it ended goalless. They followed that up with a 1-0 home win over Nasarawa United and drew goalless with Go Round in Omoku. Thereafter, they piped Yobe Stars 1-0 and defeated Kada City also 1-0 in Kaduna. After that, IfeanyiUbah returned to Nnewi where they lost 1-2 to Abia Warriors, and followed that up with a 2-0 win over Gombe United in the same stadium. Travelling to Owerri, they held Heartland to a 1-1 draw before coming back to Nnewi to beat El-Kanemi Warriors 1-0. They, however, lost their last match 0-1 away to Akwa United. While FC IfeanyiUbah are not a high scoring side, their 18 points in 10 games have set them apart heading into the second stanza of the league. Given the clubs in this group, it can rightly be said that IfeanyiUbah topping the table mid-season looks like an upset. When the draw was made, not even the biggest supporter of the Nnewi side would have anticipated that in a pool that has Kano Pillars, Plateau United and Akwa United, IfeanyiUbah would be the pace setter. This position is hinged on the previous achievements of the other clubs. Kano Pillars have won the league three times in the last couple of years; Plateau United were champions two seasons ago and have maintained consistency in the league even before emerging winners. Akwa United have won the Federation Cup twice in the last five years. Also, the Promise Keepers have the best legs in the domestic scene with quality players such as Mfon Udoh, Ifeanyi Ifeanyi, Ojo Olorunleke, Juwon Oshaniwa, Ndifreke Effiong, Emeka Atuloma and Barnabas Imenger Jr among the stars on parade at the club. On the strength of this, analysts believe that with good squad strength that will guarantee rotational policy, Akwa United should take advantage of fewer matches in the abridged season to win the league. They finished runners up last season behind Lobi Stars when the league ended. This season, they are third on the table with 15 points, three points behind leaders, FC IfeanyiUbah. In the group, second-placed El-Kanemi Warriors are the only team yet to draw a match. With 10 matches played, El-Kanemi have won six and draw four games. But one remarkable thing about the group, by extension the entire league, is that teams seem to have demystified the away win hoodoo. For instance, only five clubs of the entire twelve teams in Group B are yet to record away wins in the 11-week old league. The likes of Kano Pillars and Plateau United are yet to record any win outside their fortress. Of the four away matches played so far, Pillars lost three and drew one. Plateau United have played five times outside Jos with two losses and three drew. Nasarawa United have played six times away with five losses and one draw to show for it.  Gombe United have drawn two times away and lost on three occasions, even as Yobe Desert Stars have lost all the four away matches they have played so far. Perhaps the biggest upset was in the group, and perhaps in the entire league was when the league’s new boys, Kada City, stunned the packed crowd at the Rwan Pam Stadium in Jos, beating Plateau United 1-0 in one of the week nine matches. That result lifted them from the 12th position on the Group B log to ninth. Just like Group B, Group A has so far presented exciting scenario, with equally another strugglers last season, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM), topping the league table going into the second stanza of the season. Just like Group B, analysts are pleasantly surprised that in Group A that has seven-time winners, Enyimba International, champions three seasons ago, Rangers International, and Rivers United, MFM are calling the shot on the log. This position is premised on the fact that the Olukoya Boys were not very pleasant last season after losing most of their key players to ‘richer’ clubs but they have also risen to attribute the club’s good run to the ingenuity of Coach Fideli Ilechukwu, who masterminded the hitherto unknown players to stun the NPFL penultimate season by placing second behind then league leaders, Plateau United. Such players as Sikiru Olatunbosu, Chuka Onuwa  and Stanley Okorom, who were relied upon to rescue the club following the sudden departure of their hitherto anchorman, Stephen Odey, were prized away from the club. The result was a near collapse of the club in their fight to maintain standard among the big boys. Consequently, MFM struggled last season and were threatened severally with the prospect of relegation. But with pockets of signings, the Olukoya Boys dusted their last season and are challenging for a place in the season-end playoff. Surprisingly, they have played fewer matches than second-placed Enyimba. MFM are atop Group A with 18 points from eight matches. Enyimba are second with 14 points from nine matches while Sunshine Stars are third with 12 points from eight matches, even as Kwara United are fourth with 12 points from nine matches. Rivers United and Rangers are fifth and sixth with 10 points and nine points from seven and four games respectively. Group A in the first stanza has proved very difficult on away grounds. For example, only MFM and Sunshine Stars have won games outside their homes. MFM have played four away matches, losing twice, drawing once and winning once, with their week nine away win to Remo Stars being the difference. Just like the Olukoya Boys, Sunshine Stars have played four away games with one win two losses and one draw. They defeated Wikki Tourists 1-0 in Bauchi earlier in the season. Apart from the two clubs, all other teams are yet to record a win outside their fortress. Enyimba have lost three times on the road so far and drew once. Kwara United have played five times on the road, losing three times and drawing twice. Also, Rivers United have lost once on the road and draw thrice. Continental campaigners, Rangers International, could be understood for not winning any match outside Enugu having played only four times due to CAF Confederation Cup engagements. They have played two away matches in the league with one loss and one draw apiece. Meanwhile, Katsina United have lost all three away matches played so far, even as Wikki Tourists have also lost four away matches they have played up till now. On their own, returning topflight side, Bendel Insurance, have played five times on the road with two losses and three draws while Remo Stars have lost four times away and drew once. Just like Rangers, Lobi Stars, currently campaigning in the CAF Champions League, have played only four matches with three away ties included. The Ortom Boys have lost one and drew two, which is not a bad result for a club combining domestic action with continental engagements. Perhaps the worst away result so far in the league has been recorded by Niger Tornadoes as well as Nasarawa United, who have played six away matches, losing five and drawing once. Tornadoes also have continued to search for their first away point after playing five matches outside Minna. This is supposedly why the Ikon Allah Boys are reeling at the bottom of Group A with seven points from 10 games. Though the league has gone half-way mark, there are still plenty of outstanding games for so many of the clubs, necessitating a renewed hope that even the ones not doing well can cope and possibly avoid relegation. Meanwhile Group B has proving to be more competitive than Group A after a whooping seven clubs in the former have recorded away wins leaving five still searching for maximum points outside their home grounds. According to commentators, this is why FC IfeanyiUbah, leading Group B, should be commended for being ahead of others, even though there is still a long way to go before the end of the season where eight teams, four from each group, will be relegated, leaving six clubs, three from each group, to go for the season-end playoff where the overall winner of the league would be determined. With the look on the table, it is obvious that clubs like Tornadoes, Remo Stars and Bendel Insurance (in Group A) and Yobe Stars, Gombe United and Kada City (in Group B) must up the ante when the second stanza starts next week Sunday, lest they should be prepared to kiss the topflight goodbye.