LAGOS – Against all speculations, Seyi Makinde, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was on Sunday declared winner of the March 9 governorship election in Oyo State. He polled a total of 515,621 votes to beat Adebayo Adelabu, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who polled a total of 357,982 votes. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Makinde won convincingly in 28 of the 33 local government areas of the state. The PDP candidate was declared governor-elect of Oyo State after results were collated from 33 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. Olufemi Lanlehin, candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), came third with 12,375 votes. Lanlehin came third although he had stepped down his candidature to support Makinde a few days before the election. Makinde won convincingly in 28 LGAs of the state, while Adelabu won in only five LGAs, amid allegations of electoral malpractice. The PDP candidate won in Ibadan North West, Ibarapa East, Atiba, Kajola, Ido, Lagelu, Iwajowa, Afijio, Orelope, Ibadan North East, Ibadan South East, Ibarapa North, Atisbo, Ibarapa Central, Ogbomoso South, Ibadan North, Egbeda, Itesiwaju, Saki West, Saki East, Oyo West, Oyo East, Oluyole, Olorunsogo, Ona Ara, Akinyele, Iseyin and Ibadan South West LGAs. In the election, which was reportedly marred by intimidation by political thugs, Adelabu won in Orire, Ogooluwa, Surulere, Ogbomoso North, and Irepo LGAs of the state. Specifically in Ward 3 of Irepodun LGA, there was violence during the Saturday election as materials such as the ballot boxes and Smart Cards Readers were destroyed and carted away by armed thugs. Although, the media and observers reported violence in some areas, INEC officials claimed the elections went on smoothly and without hindrances. Oluwatoyin Temitayo Ogundipe, the INEC Returning Officer, declared the final result on Sunday. Ogundipe, Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, announced Makinde’s victory, saying: “That Seyi Makinde, having satisfied the requirements of the law and won the highest number of votes is hereby declared winner and returned elected.” Hon. Shakirudeen Olofin, the Lagos State Chairman of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), while reacting to the APC’s loss of Oyo State to PDP, also linked the development to the loss of the party in the presidential election, while its governor, Abiola Ajimobi, lost in his bid to go to the Senate. It would be recalled that Gov. Ajimobi lost the Oyo South senatorial ticket seat to Dr Kola Balogun of PDP, who won with an overall total votes of 105,720. Ajimobi polled 92,218 votes. Olofin said: “The Oyo people decided on who will rule them. The loss of APC shows that if one has an opportunity to rule, he should rule the people well. That Gov. Ajimobi lost even the senatorial seat shows that he did not rule well. “Governance is about people; giving them dividends of democracy. It is a big lesson that when people are in position of leadership, it should be an opportunity to serve and not to lord it over on the people or enrich oneself.” Debo Adeniran, Executive Chairman of the  Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), in reaction, attributed the APC’s loss of Oyo to the failure and negligence of the party’s leadership. According to him, “They failed to call Gov Ajimobi to order when he was destroying the traditional institutions of the state. He was calling himself the Constituted Authority. “The people were tired of the governance and not really the party. Ajimobi was dictatorial and arrogant. People should be humble when in authority and should consider the people in their actions. We cannot always get away with what we do. A leader occupies sensitive position and should read the tempo of events and the mood of the people.” It would be recalled that Ajimobi had running battles with Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, the Olubadan of Ibadan, over Oyo traditional chieftaincy issues, appointing new Obas by himself to the chagrin of the Ibadan monarch, one of the actions that made the governor to lose the support of the people.