ABUJA – As elections for gubernatorial and State Houses of Assembly holds nationwide, on Saturday, an election monitoring group, under the auspices of Centre for Transparency Advocacy has predicted that there would be low turnout of electorates. According to the group, many eligible voters might stay away because of the prominent role security agencies may play in the electoral process, especially the over militarization of the polls. CTA, while expressing its concerns in its situation room on Friday, in Abuja, said if this scenario played out,  it may also negate the essence of the people electing leaders of their choice in a peaceful and natural setting. Buttressing its point, the observer group said in the recent presidential and National Assembly elections, security personnel were fingered in cases of deaths involving both the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) staff and voters. The group cited the abduction of Returning Officers (RO), Collation Officers and political party agents, noting the most scandalous of which is the case of the abduction of Prof Ibeabuchi the RO of the Orlu Senatorial Election allegedly  by Governor Rochas Okorocha, who used thugs and persons in army uniform to hold him hostage for hours and forced him to announce results against his will. It also cited political violence and disruption of voting in many states, including Lagos which also led to disenfranchisement of many intending voters; threats to voters if they vote for or against a particular political party. Faith Nwadishi, Executive Director CTA said though INEC has assured the nation of its readiness to conduct a credible election, there is still the need to ensure that distribution of sensitive materials do not suddenly become issues for debate on the day of election. She also decried the overbearing attitude of Nigerian men over their wives’ political choice, citing President Muhammadu Buhari’s posture at the polling booth during the Presidential election in Daura. She said women should be encouraged to participate in politics and allowed to make choices suitable to their conviction and not their husband’s. She said: “Over militarisation of the elections in Nigeria is unacceptable, reports from the states indicate that the military is now playing an active role in our electoral process as against the provision of the electoral Act, which requires that it is only INEC that can determine when and if there is the need for military intervention.”