UYO – The people of Amazaba community in Eastern Obolo local government area of Akwa Ibom state, displaced for over 10 years now have secured a peace/resettlement pact to enable them return to their land. The displaced Amazaba community, made up of eight villages was involved in a bloody crisis with Ikot Akpan Udo village in Ikot Abasi local government area sometime in 2008 which led to hundreds of deaths and destruction of properties on both sides. It could be recalled that the Akwa Ibom State government under the then leadership of Senator Godswill Akpabio had asked the warring communities to vacate their lands and homes as a measure to forestall further loss of lives. As a result, natives of Amazaba resorted to relocate to other riverine communities; within and outside Eastern Obolo. Unfortunately, the government, under the leadership of Senator Akpabio, then as a governor, in his eight years in office could not bring amicable settlement to the crisis to enable the displaced natives of both communities return to their ancestral homes. While breaking the news that bordered on the resettlement to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Uyo yesterday, chairman Development committee of Amazaba clan, Mr. Ezekiel Tiligbor said there was a ray of hope for the resettlement of his people following Governor Emmanuel’s endorsement of an agreement that has granted them permission to return to their ancestral land. “The people of Amazaba are very grateful to Governor Udom Emmanuel for signing the peace/ resettlement agreement which will enable us return to our home. ‘’We had a fight with our neighbour, the IKot Akpan Udo village. We lost so many lives and properties. We cannot quantify our loss. And I believe Ikot Akpan Udo people also had sad stories to tell. “It was an unfortunate incident because we and our neighbours had lived peacefully for decades. We inter-married and shared so many things in common. The clash was the most harrowing period of our lives. “We have learnt our lesson that crisis does not bring any good considering the fact that we had to vacate our land to squat in other places for eleven years. “In the course of these years, we have had to live under very inhuman conditions. As a result, so many of us have died. Our means of livelihood which is fishing had been threatened”,Tiligbor said. While thanking the governor for the intervention, Tiligbor assured that the people of Amazaba will vote enmasse for Emmanuel and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming governor/assembly elections as a mark of appreciation for facilitating the people’s resettlement to their ancestral home.