Lagos – President Muhammadu Buhari was re-elected for his second four-year term penultimate Saturday with an overwhelming majority. His victory at the polls presented another opportunity for him to lead the country with emphasis on touching the key sectors of the economy. Sport is a veritable sector that is capable of assisting the president in his quest to reduce unemployment as well as the crime levels in the country. According to Godwin Kienka, Nigeria’s former international tennis star, sports industry has the capacity to employ millions of Nigerians, with a multiplier effect trickling down to their families. Unfortunately, Nigeria has, for many years, failed to articulate effective sports policy that could foster development with the prospect of multiple chain reactions that will positively reflect the dynamics of various games, which will fully exploit  their economic as well as recreational values. This is why it is imperative to look at the foregoing and set a veritable agenda for the second coming of President Buhari. Such agenda should look at critical areas the country has failed to improve. It will also look at the place of sports in the overall peace and development of the country. For example, before peace returned to South Africa following years of apartheid government, sports served as a huge divisive factor after the oppressive government came up with policies that encouraged racists sports, where whites have a different games while blacks did the same. The racist sports policies meant that South Africa was suspended from the International Olympic Committee in 1970. The country was suspended from FIFA in 1961. After a visit to the country by the English president of FIFA, Stanley Rous, the suspension was lifted and South African football officials suggested they send an all-white team to the 1966 World Cup in England, and an all-black one to Mexico four years later. Not surprisingly, this idea was rejected and the suspension re-imposed. In 1976, after police shot and killed unarmed school pupils protesting the use of Afrikaans in schools, FIFA expelled the white Football Association of South Africa. Back home, South African government decided to fight to end the suspension and no tool was employed but sports. They first revisited the racist sports policy and embraced multi-ethnic national team in virtually all sports. That marked the gradual end of apartheid in South Africa and various games provided opportunities for the mixed races to come together and watch games, forgetting their separate identities and fostering as well as forming new mindset. During the 1995 Rugby World Cup Final between South Africa and New Zealand, it was a celebration of the lifting of apartheid. It signalled the emergence of a re-united nation. The massive media attention given to the competition gave South Africa the unique opportunity to show the world that for the duration of the game the nation was united. Francois Piennar, the South African captain 1, insisted that sports have played important part in uniting the once volatile and separated country, even as the white players followed to sing the Zulu Theme, which was mainly associated with blacks. In a volatile and politically minded clime like Nigeria, such policy, implemented to the latter by all stakeholders, could fight the built-up animosity among Nigerians, particularly as the general election has just ended. Sports have always played that part once Super Eagles are playing. During the last World Cup in Russia, video clip emerged of alleged Boko Haram members watching Nigeria’s opening match against Croatia with some locals in Maiduguri. That is the place of sports. To further illustrate the place of effective sports policy, the United Kingdom placed 10th in both the Sydney Olympic Games in 2000 and Athens games in 2004 and considered that not good for a country that has continued to churn out sports starts. The Uk had their worst modern Olympic Games performance when the multi-sport events was held in Atlanta Georgia, United States, in 1996. They placed 36th but finished 10th in the next two editions. Though the two subsequent editions were an improvement to the Atlanta Games, the UK Government and the sports authorities needed a long-term planning that ushered in an improved performance in subsequent events, hence berthed the UK Government’s 2012 Legacy Action Plan. The plan targeted to get about two million adults effective through sports. The LAP target applied to all adults aged over 10 and is based on individuals achieving three sessions of at least thirty minutes of at least moderate intensity activity per week. The UK Government also came up with a National Strategy for PE Sports. The strategy has seen considerable growth and development in PE and School Sport opportunities. According to current data, 90% of 5-16 year olds were receiving two hours of PE and school sport a week. According to former head of the PE Sports, Ryan Globus, the essence of the strategic plan was to make sure that the United Kingdom was not in short supply of sportsmen and women for future engagements and to also ensure that the young ones embraced opportunities to build sporting careers for themselves. But this is what has been lacking in Nigeria and most African countries where sport is still seen from the eyes of recreation without a clear-cut master-plan that could translate the game into economic ventures. Former Nigerian international tennis star, Godwin Kienka, captures it succinctly. “There’s insincerity of purpose, greed, lack of respect for the athletes and the failure of not seeing sports as the second largest employer of labour that would create wealth for the athletes, their parents, their communities and the society at large.” Sadly, even though the commercial spotlight on sport seems to have shifted to the likes of China, Gulf States and India, sport is actually much more deeply embedded in Africa and Nigeria, from rugby and cricket in South Africa, the distance running prowess of Kenyan and Ethiopian athletes, to football all over the continent and especially populous states in the west such as Nigeria; neither China nor India have produced anything like the global superstars like Didier Drogba, Mohammed Salah, George Weah or Haile Gebrselassie. But why has China and all other Asian countries continue to thrive in the game? According to Haile Gebrselassie, while speaking to https://www.lawinsport.com, “those countries have come to realise the potentials of sports to eradicate want and economic deprivation. No wonder they are now the safe haven for sportsmen and women because the government and other bodies have pumped money into sports there,” he said. Taking a cue from the legendary runner, Nigerian sports offer little or no opportunities to budding talents to develop due to lack of motivation as a result of financial inadequacies. This situation, some commentators have admitted, is borne out the country’s lip service approach to sports. This has led to some podium-rated athletes retiring prematurely over issues that could be easily handled. This position was recently shared by Kemi Adekoya, who switched allegiance to Bahrain in 2014 after she complained of poor sports approach by the Athletic Federation of Nigeria (AFN). She complained that the AFN were not funding her training and she was not paid the jackpot she won in the Nigerian golden league. She went on to say that she did not regret switching allegiance as she would have been forced to retire early in Nigeria due to frustration. In a chat with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Efe Ajagba, former Nigerian national heavyweight champion, regretted the inclement condition boxers and other sportsmen and women are exposed to. The pugilist, who is now based in the United States, where he is professionally fighting, called on Nigerian sports authorities to lay emphasis on the development of sportsmen and women. “I fought in Nigeria and trained there; I can tell you that it is horrible being in Nigeria as a professional fighter. The condition there is very horrible as the boxers are exposed to injury-prone trainings. The training facilities are very poor,” he said. Efe Ajagba noted that Nigerians are praising reigning World Heavyweight Champion, Anthony Joshua, regretting that the British-born Nigerian boxer would not have gotten closer to the height he had attained if he were to be in Nigeria. Joshua, it was reported, was rejected by Nigerian sports authorities due to unexplained reasons but the boxer went to where clear-cut policies drive sports development, which has afforded him the opportunity to climb highest in his career. Even former boxing coach, Jeremiah Okorodudu, admitted that Joshua would not have made any headway if he were to remain in Nigeria. “Lack of fights and motivation are a big problem for our boxers. They turn professional and there is no promotion. Joshua is where he is because he is getting good promotion, so maybe it would have been tougher for him. “But because he was born in England, he could still have moved abroad, like Peter did, and that would have worked for him,” Okorodudu added. The problem of adequate funding has continued to mar the development of sports in Nigeria. The funding could be in the form of providing adequate infrastructure for sportsmen and women to train, as well as ensuring good training regime for athletes. It will be recalled that prior to the  London Olympics, Tosin Oke, a Nigerian athlete in Triple-Jump, lamented about how he used his personal funds to train in Singapore. Blessing Okagbare, in 2015, lambasted sports officials on social media: “For those hoping for a change in our Nigeria track and field, should not just wait but also pray,” she wrote on her facebook wall. “Honestly, I have been so calm about these people killing our grassroots section/home based athletes with their recruiting of athletes from other countries instead of building the great talents that we have. What a show of shame the administration has become,” she wrote. But how can the country build great talents with dearth of requisite infrastructure, absence of season sports coaches and managers? According to Chief Ifeanyi Ubah, the proprietor of FC IfeanyiUbah, it will only take a businessman with eye for profits to revitalize Nigerian sports. He was speaking on the backdrop of sports developments being at the mercy of civil servants and politicians. “It will only take a passionate and business oriented manager to know that athletes must be taking care off because in them lie the profits. It will take them to realise that athletes must have personal physicians, dieticians and physiotherapists if they must remain competitive.” Like the businessman said, it will take passionate and profit-driven businessmen to realize that after Nigeria set several records in the last Paralympic Games, the athletes should not have been allowed to go back to Ojuelegba Bridge and beg for alms, rather, there should have been a defined programme to not only encourage them but to also bring more of their likes for the country to sustain the dominance in that very sport. Mary Onyali, Nigeria’s former sprinter, emphasised the place of athletes’ welfare when she said: “With all the talents in the world, with no funding and facilities to train as well as a quality coaches and programmes, sports cannot grow. It takes money, use the right facilities, employ the right coaches, the right support system around the coaches, create a right environment for athletes and watch how we generate the likes of Mary Onyali,” she concluded. Unfortunately, the trend led to dozens of athletes of Nigerian origin representing other countries at the last Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Among them, Christine Ohuruogu and Ezinne Okparaebo had competed for their adopted countries for so many years. The others are Morolake Akinosun (USA), Courtney Okolo (USA), Edidiong Odiong (Bahrain), Femi Ogunade (Qatar), Oluwakemi Adekoya (Bahrain), Keturah Orji (USA), Ayomide Folorunsho (Italy), Barbara Nwaba (USA), Anyika Onuora (GB) and Paola Ogechi Egonu (Italy). Most of the above listed athletes who have dumped Nigeria to compete for other countries cited various reasons, particularly nepotism, poor incentives and lack of adequate training facilities for their actions. With effective sports development, several jobs would have been created with the attendant multiplier effects in creating other jobs. In that situation, there will be noticeable crime reduction in the country. For instance, the United States of America, according to economicmodeling.com, earns an average of $27.3 billion annually from sports value chain activities. This is apart from some unaccounted seeming insignificant sports-related activities. The Americans, according to the analytical website, get incomes from athletes and sports competitions, coaches and scouts, umpires, referees and officials, sports related workers, gaming and sports book writers, as well as agents, sports business managers and endorsements According to the analysts, sports related industries generating income for countries like the United are legion. If effective sports development policies are enthroned in Nigeria, there will be economic value chain activities. With adequate sponsorship on athletes, they will be able to have personal backroom staff for their maintenance. There will be facility managers, who will be taking care of sports event places. There will also be constant events, which will attract athletes from far and wide, thereby creating avenues for foreign exchange. According to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT sources, a Nigerian club, which recently camped at ASEC Mimosas facility in Cote d’Ivoire, parted with about $3,000 to use the place. The facility has now turned a money-making venture for the club and country. Like the United States, we have the manpower and the population to drive sports with emphasis on the welfare of the major actors. As Buhari will be sworn in for a second term on May 29, it is imperative for the president to look beyond the politicians and civil servants in key areas in sports. He should first be made to understand that sports can help his administration’s poverty alleviation agenda by creating jobs for even the supposed downtrodden. By appointing very passionate and result-driven technocrats into key areas in the sports industry, a new chapter would be opened in the sector, where opportunities for development will be created for budding sportsmen and women. The ripple effect is that the scourge of insecurity, particularly in the North East, would be reduced. It will be recalled that Efe Brume would have still be walking the streets of Warri with little or no hope if she was not discovered during the 2012 National Sports Festival (Eko 2012). Today, she is one of the best triple jumpers on the continent. It is good the president hit the ground running and creates avenues to unify the country.