Chief Emmanuel Ighomena, Dr Henry Offa and the leadership of Kou, Iduwini, Gbaramatu and Egbema Kingdoms led by Commander S.D Aluku has described Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State as an epitome of good leadership. According to them, Okowa is a man that needs to be guaranteed a second term in office come Saturday, March 9. They asserted in their various views that Okowa is a man of equity and justice who must be encouraged to do more for Deltans with the SMART Agenda. Chief Emmanuel Ighomena said choosing a candidate to vote into office is simply a matter of party affiliation for many people. However, he said that others cast their votes based on other characteristics such as ethnicity, religion, good relationship or effective representation. It is against this backdrop coupled with his political antecedents that Okowa was saddle with the mandate of governing Delta State. “A good leader and representative of the people is one that is selfless. Such an individual uses reliable and unfiltered information to make judgments and come up with resolutions. It is with these attributes and in order to effectively discharge his duty that Okowa came up with the slogan “prosperity for all Deltans” with his Smart Agenda and Job Creation Policy to make Deltans feel a sense of belonging and gains of democracy. In his own contribution, Commander S.B Aluku stated that the second tenure mandate of Okowa is a done deal stressing that there is no going back because all oppositions have been silenced by the massive infrastructural development of the Ekwueme of Africa. Also, the Ughelli North Unity Group (UNUG), a political pressure group under the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), in Delta State has endorsed Okowa, for a second term in office. A communiqué issued at the end of a recent meeting of the body, signed by the Chairman, Hon. Akise Jowho, and Secretary, Mr Burutu Patrick, said the decision of the group to endorse Gov Okowa was based on its conviction that he will do better than he has done in his first term in office as governor of Delta State. The group held that it was fair to respect the political zoning arrangement of rotation of power among the three Senatorial districts of the state for the purpose of equity and therefore, added voice to protagonists of power rotation and finds Dr. Okowa a necessary beneficiary of the political arrangement put in place by the PDP in the state.