Jalingo – A Federal High Court in Jalingo has disqualified the Taraba APC governorship candidate, Sani Danladi, from contesting in Saturday’s election on account of discrepancies in personal particulars. The suit has Usman Udi, Joshua Paaku, George Geoffrey, and Tanko Muslim Munkaila as plaintiffs and Abubakar Sani Danladi, the All Progressives Congress (APC), and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as defendants. In a judgment by Justice Steven Pam on Wednesday, the court ordered that “the affidavit of the 1st defendant (Abubakar Sani Danladi) supporting his personal particulars that he was born on 14th February, 1968 is in conflict with his date of birth contained in the West Africa Senior School Certificate submitted by him to the 3rd defendant (Independent National Electoral Commission) which indicates that the 1st defendant (Abubakar Sani Danladi) was born on 3rd April, 1977”. The order further states that “the 1st defendant (Abubakar Sani Danladi) is hereby disqualified from contesting election as the candidate of the 2nd defendant (All Progressives Congress) in the governorship election for Taraba State slated for 9th March 2019 or any subsequent date to be slated on ground that the information contained in the affidavit in support of the 1st defendant’s (Abubakar Sani Danladi) personal particulars on the INEC Form CF001 submitted to the 3rd defendant (Independent National Electoral Commission) as to his age is false”. Furthermore, the court restrained INEC and APC from recognising Sani Danladi as candidate of the APC for the governorship election for Taraba State slated for 9th March 2019. It also prohibited Sani Danladi from parading himself as the candidate of APC for the governorship election. Meanwhile, the APC has dismissed the judgment as “mischievous and comical”, asking their supporters to disregard the court judgment and go about their campaigns. Speaking on the matter during a press briefing immediately after the judgment was given, the Taraba State APC Chairman, Mohammed El-Sudi, said: “Our attention has been drawn to a mischievous and comical judgment by the Federal High Court Jalingo on a case filed by unknown persons parading as concerned citizens who raised a case of a purported improper declaration of age by His Excellency Sani Danladi. “The so-called concerned citizens declared that there were discrepancies in the declaration of age as contained in Sani Abubakar’s SSCE and his statutory declaration of age which was sworn to in the year 2000. “We wish our supporters to know that this issue has been taken to court in the year 2007 and was subsequently dismissed by the Appeal Court.” According to El-Sudi, the judgment of the “Appeal Court supersedes that of the High Court. “There are also legal processes involved in the substitution of candidates by INEC and, therefore, a court judgment does not automatically translate to disqualification to contest elections.” El-Sudi, therefore, called on all APC members to remain calm and disregard any rumour regarding the eligibility of His Excellency to contest Saturday’s governorship elections, adding that legal steps had already commenced to set aside the judgment. “Legal steps have already commenced to set aside this mischievous judgment which we view as another desperate attempt by agents of PDP and the state government to escape defeat on Saturday,” he said.