P/Harcourt – The Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Rivers State chapter, has called on the Federal Government to prevail over the Nigerian Army, particularly the 6 Division, to desist from playing any role in the March 9 governorship and House of Assembly elections. IPAC said the call was necessary giving the unfortunate partisanship of the Army in the last Presidential and National Assembly elections, which left close to 30 people dead in various local government areas of Rivers State. The council noted with regret that the involvement of armed soldiers in the February 23 elections in the state was contrary to the order of Acting Director of Defence Information, Brig.-Gen. John Agim, who said the Armed Forces would remain neutral in the elections. In a statement read by Kukang Ledum Joseph, IPAC’s Public Relations Officer, during a press conference in Port Harcourt on Thursday, the opposition chairmen called on President Muhammadu Buhari, the Chief of Army Staff, General Tukur Buratai and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, to call the soldiers to order given their involvement in the last elections. “Obviously, the Army, by its brazen and unlawful involvement in last week Saturday’s general elections, has become a serious threat to peaceful, free, fair and credible elections in Rivers State. “By brazenly betraying the public trust, the Army can no longer be trusted by the people of Rivers State to be neutral in the electoral process. The Army has become a threat not only to the holding of peaceful, free and credible elections but also, to the survival of democracy in Rivers State and must, therefore, be excluded from participating in the governorship and Houses of Assembly elections”. IPAC said that it was the involvement of the Army in the elections that led to the cancellation of results from Akuku Toru, Ahoada-West, Bonny, Emohua, Ikwerre and Okrika local government areas of the state. The council alleged that over 18 people, including INEC’s ad hoc staff and a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), were killed by soldiers in Abonnema, Buguma and Degema communities on the Election Day. “Maj.-Gen. Jamil Sarham’s soldiers also supported APC thugs to snatch election materials and prevented elections from holding in Bonny, parts of Ahoada-West and Okrika local government areas of the state. In Emohua and Ikwerre, the Army smuggled results sheets to APC agents, held INEC officials hostage at gun-point”, the group said.