March 8 is a day set aside to celebrate women globally under the title International Women Day. International women day is therefore, a day to celebrate the importance of women in the society. It is also a day to reflect on the vital role women are playing in economic, political, social and even religious growth of the society. Most of the common discussions during the international women’s day are Gender equality and women right, and women in politics. The theme of this year, 2019 international Women’s Day is Balance for Better. This theme advocates for gender balanced-world. A gender balanced world is a world where the role and the right of women are in a balanced scale with their male counterpart. A balanced world has to do with a gender balanced government, gender-balanced media coverage, a gender-balance of employees, a gender-balance in wealth, gender-balanced sports coverage. Gender balance has a lot to do with the economic growth of every nation. Without gender balance the economy cannot thrive. One aspect of the society which we often take for granted is the role of women in economic development. Most people often interpret economic growth as a masculine endeavor. This is probably so because majority of people who controls the political powers are mainly men. When it comes to the economic growth of the society women have contributed same, if not more than their men counterpart.  They have contributed immensely in economic and national development. Without women there will be no growth in the economy. Most of the growth we have recorded so far as long as the economy is concerned won’t have taken place without the indispensable efforts and contributions of women. There is an adage that says “Behind every successful man there is a woman.” this is true of every successful nation. A nation cannot succeed without women. Female Farmers: Majority of the farmers in the rural areas are women. The rural women are the most hardworking beings on earth. Women wake very early in the morning. They leave their homes for their farmland. Most of them spend the rest of their days working in their farms. Unfortunately, most of these women rely solemnly on manual labour and tools. Most of the products from these farms are transported into the urban cities. Most of the foods that urban dwellers consume are produced by women, especially women at the rural areas. The produce and the money from these produce contributes immensely to the economic growth of the nation. Female Traders: Apart from female farmers, we also have female traders. Their role is to buy and sell. Some of these women deal with perishable goods while others deal with provisions and other products. Without these traders producers will find it difficult to locate their customers and consumers. Hence, female traders serve as intermediary between the producers and the consumers. Female Marketers: There is no doubt, marketers contributes immensely to economic growth. Most of the marketers in the banking industries are mainly women and ladies. Research shows that women and ladies are the best when it comes to marketing. Without such marketers it will be difficult to get customers. Apart from searching for new customers female marketers usually play a vital role in rendering services to their customers. Female promoters and Advertisers: The promo or Advertising industry is an indispensable aspect of every business and economic organisation. New products are made known and available to the customers through promo and advert. Without proper adverts and promo goods and services will not be known by the customers and consumers. Most of the leading promos and advert industries and controlled by women. Savings through Women: With the adage that says, behind every successful man there is a woman. One of the major roles that women play in the economic growth of their husband is to assist them to make savings. A good woman will not only encourage her husband to save money she will even help her husband to make the savings. At this juncture I want to share with you what the book of Proverbs states concerning a capable woman or what I may call an industrious woman: “A capable wife who can find? She is far more precious than jewels. The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain. She does him good, and not harm, all the days of her life. She seeks wool and flax, and works with willing hands. She is like the ships of the merchant; she brings her food from far away. She rises while it is still night and provides food for her household and tasks for her servant-girls. She considers a field and buys it; with the fruit of her hands she plants a vineyard. She girds herself with strength, and makes her arms strong. She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp does not go out at night. She puts her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle. She opens her hand to the poor, and reaches out her hands to the needy. She is not afraid for her household when it snows, for all her household are clothed in crimson. She makes herself coverings; her clothing is fine linen and purple. Her husband is known in the city gates, taking his seat among the elders of the land. She makes linen garments and sells them; she supplies the merchant with sashes. Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at the time to come. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. She looks well to the ways of her household, and does not eat the bread of idleness. Her children rise up and call her happy; her husband too, and he praises her: “Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all.” Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. Give her a share in the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the city gates. (Proverbs 31:10-31). The gospel of Luke 8:1-3 presents a group of industrious women who contributed immensely in the public ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ: “The twelve were with him, 2 as well as some women who had been cured of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, 3 and Joanna, the wife of Herod’s steward Chuza, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them out of their resources.” These women not only contributed to the missionary work of our Lord Jesus Christ, they also contributed in the economic growth of the society. For them to have provided for our Lord Jesus Christ and his disciples out of their resources, it is a clear sign that they were wealthy women. The role of a capable woman as stated above is a typical example of the role of women in economic growth and development. We have so many women like this in our society. A good number of them have enriched their husbands and their family members. Even the children of such women are blessed.  Such industrious women usually influence their children positively. A hardworking citizen is indeed the child of a hardworking mother. An industrious mother can only give birth to industrious children. Industrious nation cannot exist without industrious citizens. Such industrious citizens are the product of industrious families. Hence, the family is the foundation of industrious society. Without the families, therefore, especially the mothers, the nation cannot be industrialised. In a nutshell, women are not just the agents of economic growth they are also the agents of industrialisation and national development. I wish all our capable and hardworking women Happy International Women’s Day!