A sociopolitical organisation in Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Ibom Liberation  Movement, AILM, has alerted the world to hold the National Chairman of  All Progressives Congress, APC, Adams Oshiomhole, responsible for any violence in the state before or during the forth coming Governorship and State Assembly elections. This is sequel to the recent inciting comments by the party chairman when he visited the State on Monday where he declared, “It will be our shame if we allow an established, biased umpire to superintend and steal the votes of Akwa Ibom People.” The group wondered why a party chairman who could not deliver Edo State for his party during the last presidential and National Assembly elections, could have the impetus to incite his party men against the peace loving people of the state. In an open letter signed by the leader of the movement, Prince Emmanuel Sam, the group said they had expected Adams, as a onetime governor, to possess some level of morality. The group warned that, in spite intimidation, harassment by the APC war lords, Akwa Ibom people, who believe in PDP, will return all the candidates of the party in Saturday’s elections. “From the recent ranting of Adam Oshiomole about the elections that took place in Akwa Ibom during their condolence visit to the state party after their whooping failure, it may not be too wrong to deduce that the national leader of the APC is making waves so as to instigate their members to act ultra vires in the forth-coming state elections. May be, this is coming as the result of the fact that without needing the services of a prophet, they already have a premonition of another round of colossal collapse and outright defeat, which will render the face of the APC, a shattered visage in Akwa Ibom State. Because, like one man puts it:“AkwaIbom people know what they want and they will go for it”; we want the peace that is sweeping through this state to remain. “It is a priceless commodity that we cannot sale out by selling our votes. We want a terror-free tenure and people-oriented governance. Hence,AkwaIbom people want to vote in the coming elections under a peaceful atmosphere devoid of intimidations. “Let Adams Oshiomolebe thereforewarnedto desist from every effort and attempt to instigate violence during the coming elections in AkwaIbom state.  He should know that there is no way they will be able to use federal might to hijack the will of the people in the state elections, because the Almighty will break any moves of federal might. If their plan is to release their APC underdogs to cause mutiny against the restful state of things in this election season, they should know that it will only amount to fighting Only God, and they will not stand it. Already, the senatorial election in IkotEkpene Senatorial District has proven that nobody puts himself in the place of the Majesty on High and survives it. “Nebuchadnezzar tried it, became an animal and ended in the forest like other lower creatures. The man that built the titanic ship said even God cannot sink it, but till today we cannot forget 1912. And APC in Akwa Ibom is trying it and the result has reflected in the first phase; and the second is about to happen and history to be made that God rules in the affairs of men. Former Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, be warned!!!” Read the letter bellow: OPEN LETTER Akwa Ibom Liberation Movement (AILM) MOTTIO: Together, we shall Liberate Akwa-Abasi Ibom State ADDRESS: No. 42b Uko Eshiet Street, Uyo, AKS A’Ibom State Elections: A Warning to Adams Oshiomhole If there has been a time in which an advanced percentage of credibility has been scored in Akwa Ibom State electoral process, it is today. If there has been a time in which history has been recorded about peaceful elections in Akwa Ibom, it is today. If there has been a time that governmental power has been properly managed without the exerted influence of the incumbency, it is in the 2019 elections in Akwa Ibom State. If there has been a time that the collective will of the people has so prevailed in the battle of deciding their political narrative, it is today. Obviously, Akwa Ibom State is taking the lead in sanitizing the Nigerian electoral process, even in the midst of terror, intimidation and open physical threats, chiefly led by the APC in Akwa Ibom State, as noticed in the just concluded national elections. Let it be known that Akwa Ibom achieved the above stated feat and will also repeat that history in the forth-coming gubernatorial and state house of assembly elections, because the eyes of the people have recently been opened and they have come to true self-discovery that no candidate of election has worth their blood and common destiny. This has single handedly made the Akwa Ibom people to decide that their votes must count, and of course, did in the last elections and will do same in the state polls. This possibility is fostered by the fact that as at the present, there is no reign of terror or locust in Akwa Ibom State, whose interest would have been his own addictions to power and non-answerability to nobody. But it is also thought that the exceptional, purposeful and peaceful elections in the state have also been monumentally engineered by the towering figure of integrity, who is the serving Electoral Commissioner for Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Mike Igini. This man which it is reported of to have been tried and tempted to mortgage his moral ideals by both major political factions in the state, but has refused to give in. Indeed, he is the Nigerian legendary figure of the time on the platform of elections. But unfortunately, the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who narrowly escaped a corruption scandal last year, is faulting the most appreciated electoral conduct in Akwa Ibom State and the highly respected Mike Igini for his ardent moral standing and convictions.Little wonder, the Kenyan Professor, Patrick Lumumba once quipped that it is only in Africa that we demonize the saints and canonize the criminals. The same APC national chairman that once showed the whole world his corruptive nature when he declared in political comedic terms that if you were a sinner, once you come to APC you are forgiven, is the one fuming empty dissatisfaction with the results of the federal elections, and purporting that the electoral umpire in Akwa Ibom is partnering the PDP to steal their votes. Adams, a man, who in his position should have delivered one hundred percent votes to his party, was struggling with the PDP. The APC National Chairman should be more concern about his tainted image than Akwa Ibom State. But what could be more sagacious than the fruitless attempts of the APC candidates in Akwa Ibom State to intimidate people at their polling units, especially, in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial Districts – the very home of Senator Godswill Akpabio, where he had a landslide failure to Dr. Chris Ekpenyong. From the recent ranting of Adam Oshiomhole about the elections that took place in Akwa Ibom during their condolence visit to the state party after their whooping failure, it may not be too wrong to deduce that the national leader of the APC is making waves so as to instigate their members to act ultra vires in the forth-coming state elections. May be, this is coming as the result of the fact that without needing the services of a prophet, they already have a premonition of another round of colossal collapse and outright defeat, which will render the face of the APC, a shattered visage in Akwa Ibom State. Because, like one man puts it:“AkwaIbom people know what they want and they will go for it”; we want the peace that is sweeping through this state to remain. It is a priceless commodity that we cannot sale out by selling our votes. We want a terror-free tenure and people-oriented governance. Hence, Akwa Ibom people want to vote in the coming elections under a peaceful atmosphere devoid of intimidations. Let Adams Oshiomhole be therefore warned to desist from every effort and attempt to instigate violence during the coming elections in Akwa I him state.  He should know that there is no way they will be able to use federal might to hijack the will of the people in the state elections, because the Almighty will break any moves of federal might. If their plan is to release their APC underdogs to cause mutiny against the restful state of things in this election season, they should know that it will only amount to fighting Only God, and they will not stand it. Already, the senatorial election in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District has proven that nobody puts himself in the place of the Majesty on High and survives it. Nebuchadnezzar tried it, became an animal and ended in the forest like other lower creatures. The man that built the titanic ship said even God cannot sink it, but till today we cannot forget 1912. And APC in AkwaIbom is trying it and the result has reflected in the first phase; and the second is about to happen and history to be made that God rules in the affairs of men. Former Comrade Adams Oshiomole, be warned!!! Prince Emmanuel Sam Leader of the Movement