GOMBE – The victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 Governorship election in Gombe State did not come to many political watchers as a surprise considering the resilience of the party and especially the persistence of its candidate, Alhaji Mohammed Inuwa Yahaya. The soft spoken businessman is not new in the political environment of Gombe State having served as the commissioner of Finance from 2003 to 2010 when he showed interest to contest for the plum job in the State under the PDP in 2011. This eight year period was under the current Senator representing Gombe Central zone in the red chamber, Muhammad Danjuma Goje. Together with Danjuma Goje in the opposition, Inuwa Yahaya fought through the APC party primaries to become its governorship candidate but failed again at the general election in 2015. He still could not succeed when he challenged the election results at the tribunal. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) had been on the driving seat of governance in Gombe state since 2003 without a break having had Danjuma Goje from 2003 to 2011 and Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo from 2011 to date. Dankwabo’s eight year tenure is expected to end by 29th May, 2019 making it an uninterrupted sixteen years. The twist in this scenario is that most of the personalities currently driving the opposition politics in the state especially in the last three and a half years were in the ruling PDP. Shortly before the 2015 general election, when there was a spate of defections from the ruling PDP at the national level resulting in an alliance with other political parties that formed the APC, Senator Danjuma automatically became the Leader of the APC having being a former Governor and occupying the highest political office in the APC camp in the State at the particular moment. Considering his political clout in the State, Goje had done his best in maintaining and retaining the opposition APC, making it a formidable force to reckon with since he joined the party in 2014. In 2015, a lot happened and many wondered why APC could not deliver Gombe State after the APC Tsunami that swept away all PDP States in the 19 northern States of the country with the exception of Gombe and Taraba States. To inuwa’s mind, he won the election and that was why he wanted to reclaim his mandate at the court. All that happened that time is now history but it was a well established fact that the APC was not as united as it is today. Many attribute this unity as the major factor that contributed to the party’s success in the last election. Something that was not tenable in 2015. For example, in 2015, there were wide unconfirmed speculations, that for some hidden reasons, Senator Goje was never comfortable with Inuwa Yahaya as the party’s Governorship candidate even though Yahaya fought real hard to secure the party’s ticket. The story completely changed in 2019, especially prelude to the election in 2018 after the party primaries. What many described as magic was the coming together of many strong party juggernauts coming together. Most of these personalities like Abubakar Habu Mu’azu coming together under the same political roof with Senator Danjuma Goje was nearly an impossibility. However, as political interest or convenience would have it, Habu Mua’zu, one of the strong contenders of the party’s Governorship ticket became strategists of wining the APC election together with Senator Goje in the APC. On the whole, in terms of weight, the APC also had very strong Governorship contenders such as Jibrin Danbarde, Haidar Aliyu, Farouk Bamusa, Khamisu Mailantarki, Umar Kwairanga, Idris Umar, Dasuki Jalo Waziri and the winner of the primaries, Mohammed Inuwa Yahaya. Contrary to speculations, it surprised many that immediately after the party primaries, all these aspirants remained together, campaigned and worked together and are still together. None of them decamped or complained about the process of the primary election Another very strong factor that resulted in the APC success was the coming into the fold by Jamilu Isiaaku Gwamna, the PDP Governorship aspirant that was favoured to pick the ticket during their primaries. Though not exclusively his efforts, but Jamilu, Managing Director and CEO of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO), was clearly seen at the front of the political war to ensure that the PDP Governorship candidate, Bayero Nafada, was defeated. The story of Jamilu’s defection to the APC started immediately he lost the PDP Governorship ticket at the primaries. What happened before the eyes of delegates and Journalists during the primaries was that, inside the highly charged atmosphere of the New Banquet Hall of the Government House, Bayero Nafada, one of the aspirants, in anger called Governor Dankwambo into one of the side rooms in the hall. It was rumoured that what they discussed was what likely changed the outcome of the primary election which would have produced Jamilu Isiaku Gwamna as the PDP Governorship candidate. To many political analysts, this is what actually broke the power of the PDP from retaining political power in the State during the 2019 Governorship election. Many see Jamilu, a well loved politician by especially the youths, whom he had empowered in terms of employment and many other philanthropic gestures, as the person that would have taken PDP to victory at the general polls. With this anger, Jamilu and many of his supporters, barely 24 hours after the conduct of the PDP primaries, joined forces with the Inuwa Yahaya’s APC camp and swore to see the end of Dankwambo’s preferred candidate during the general elections and even Dankwambo’s Senatorial ambition which election took place earlier than the Governorship polls. For now, victory is what the APC is basking in and it is only a matter of time that the party would form Government and occupy the Government House by 29th May, 2019. Be that as it may, what is of great concern to many is the sustenance the unity of these political gladiators who are also seen as strange bed fellows especially when it comes to sharing of political offices. This is one challenge, Inuwa may be facing even before he took mantle of governance, considering the fact that the stakes are high. Even more daunting challenge will be the fact that the position of the leader of the party in the State will now change hands from Senator Mohammed Danjuma Goje to Inuwa Yahaya, the Governor in the waiting. Like the experience is, in many States in Nigeria, incumbents have always sharply parted ways with their successors because of political patronage and influence. And in this case, it is uncertain if Senator Goje will yield his very strong political advantage away. Senator Goje is still very strong politically and is good to go for any political office in Nigeria. Already, there are insinuations that he may be gunning for the Senate Presidency and political pundits are postulating that unless that happens, “We will only continue to pray that their relationship will continue to be cordial, politically”, a political analyst who pleaded anonymity told our correspondent.