ENUGU – Maristella Okpala, an Enugu-born beauty queen, has announced plans to bring 10,000 children back to school by 2025. Okpala, Miss Earth Nigeria 2018 Queen, made her intention known in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Enugu. Miss Okpala explained that through her project “Pick That Plastic and Stay In School,” she would sponsor 20 children school dropouts back to school. She said her project was targeted at realizing eight out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). According to Okpala, the targeted SDGs include no poverty, good health, quality education, clean water and sanitation, good jobs and economic growth, responsible production and consumption, climate action and partnership for the goals. She said her project would focus on donating waste bins for waste sorting, sensitizing the children on proper waste management habits and sponsoring a child. “I will support many children in Nigeria who have dropped out of school because their parents cannot afford school fees anymore. “The children are to pick plastic waste (bottles) in return to be sponsored through the Recycles-Pay Educational Programme,” she said. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the beauty queen recently launched the pet project through her advocacy tagged #WasteToWealth, at Morit International School, Ajegunle, Lagos. During the launch, she announced plans to sponsor 20 dropout children in conjunction with the UN Sustainable Development Goals for a cleaner environment and better education initiative. She equally used the opportunity to donate 240 litres waste bins for collection of recyclables to the school. The list of her beneficiaries selected from across the country included Rankin Dennis, Chidimma Egemba, Naomi Thompson, Korede Sodiq, Murina Hassan, Favour Francis, Mayowa David and Zainab Abdulahi. Miss Okpala hails from Nise in Awka South Local Government Area of Anambra State and is the daughter of Emeka Okpala, the general manager of Nigerian Television Authority in Yenegoa. She is a dental technologist and student of School of Aviation Lagos. She is currently employed with Emirate Airlines in Dubai. She was 2013 Miss Style Nigeria; 2018 Miss Earth Nigeria and currently Miss Earth Africa.