She added that SMEs that make very little as profits are forced to also run on petrol-powered generators such as business centres where you do typing of document, photocopy, binding and all that. She said maybe on the average, in a month, they make about N150,000 as profit, “but because of poor power supply, they must have to run on generators, to be able to meet customers’ demand. Rather than make N150,000 at the end of the month, they will end up with not up to N80,000 because a lot of these profits have been eaten up by buying fuel, paying the engineers that maintains the generator, buying oil for the maintenance of the generator, and it also jerks up the cost of their services, we have seen where even photocopying  of document, which cost N5, goes up as much as N20 per copy. Even with this N20, the profit of the operators is still nothing to write home about, that is just an example of how it affects micro businesses. Speaking in the same vein, Adeola Yusuf, a manufacturer said the problem hits harder on manufacturers. Making reference to those who engage in soap manufacturing whose engines or factories requires power to function, Yusuf said they are forced to buy diesel, forced to spend money on maintenance. “In fact in some cases, the burden creates another job of employing an engineer on full time because to use generator is a constant thing, so they need an engineer that will be on generator or electrical beat.   So, it has an overall effect,” he said. Looking at the general economy, Yusuf said that once this sector is affected, their output, cost of services, are affected. He noted that those who could not compete in this kind of hash economic environment, are forced to quit because some of them cannot meet up with payment of rent, payment of enough workers, because they cannot meet up with taking care of additional burden of supplying power for themselves, which ought to be supplied by the government. “So in all, the effect it has on SMEs, is reduced productivity, reduced manpower, which is increase in unemployment. To large extent it also affects the Gross Domestic Production of the nation.” Speaking on the solution to all these, Innocent Aniemu said that the government had been discussing improve in power supply for over 30 years. He said that even when people thought that privatization will bring solution, “the distribution companies and the generating companies have not been able to meet consumers demand.” According to Aniemu, a maritime analyst, the grand laws should be liberalised. First, he called on the government to allow state governments to also get involve in power generating issues. He pointed out that the Federal Government is holding so much, saying, “liberalise it in such a way that even communities where oil companies operate, they can use turbines to give them power, without connecting to national grid. “We have seen this thing work, where they enjoy 24hours power supply, noiseless environment, allow companies like Shell to power host communities, once it is liberalised, I can assure you there will be competition state by state, darkness can be localized, people will say state ‘A’ has not done much that is why they are in darkness. But the longer it remains a federal issue, the more we continue to have one excuse or the other.” He noted that over the years, it has become a cesspit of corruption, where so much money is budgeted for power generation, and very little is used for it. The people operating in the sector and their contractors get so enriched, and Nigeria remains in darkness.” Speaking about its effect on the maritime sector, Aniemu said that when you look at the sector in respect of port concession, which provided that the government will provide power, in the concession agreement, power and good roads, are the common-user facilities that the government must provide. According to him, the good road aspect has failed, “they are struggling to remedy that, power aspect has failed, all the terminal operators are depending heavily on diesel-powered generator. You cannot expect to have cheap port services, because government promised to provide common-user facilities like electricity, and good roads, but the government has failed in that. So they are providing some of these things on their own.  So it affects the cost of doing business in the sector. It affects the profits that the concessionaires will make, in the overall, they transfer the burden of additional costs to the port users.”