Comrade Fatai Ibu Owo, the Lagos State Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and the party’s candidate for the Lagos State House of Assembly, Oshodi Isolo constituency 1. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the Presidential and National Assembly elections and his expectations in the Governorship and State House of Assembly polls. Excerpt. How did you see last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections, especially as it was done in Lagos State? The last Saturday’s election can be described as ‘Jamboree Election’. Several people were disenfranchised by not giving them their PVCs. People visited the INEC office several times without collecting their PVCs. INEC should have taken the PVCs to the ward centres to make for easy collection. Since the addresses of the people are on the PVCs, INEC could even take them to the owners within the community. Elections were supposed to start by 8am. In some areas, it started between 11am and ended by 2pm. So, many people did not vote because of the lateness of INEC officers. In some area like ward E2, Bello Street in Oshodi, card reader did not work and hundreds of people were not allowed to vote. In ward D2, polling units in Afariogun Primary School and Adeogun street in Orile Oshodi, ballot boxes were snatched by hoodlums. Fifteen ballot boxes were snatched in ward D3 of Oshodi/Isolo constituency. In Oshodi alone, 17 ballot boxes were snatched. Do you think the results of the elections represent what transpired during the exercise? Some of the results were fake and was rigged. I will use Imo State as a case study. The returning officer there was forced and threatened to announce the result in favour of the governor. In Lagos too, elections were not free and fair as hoodlums were used to scare people away and to discourage them from voting. What is your take on your party’s performance nationwide, in both elections? The NCP did not officially contest the presidential election. According to the Article 18 of the Memorandum of Understanding of the unholy CUPP alliance says and I quote “Eevery party member will work together in presenting one presidential candidate,” and Atiku was picked. We were against the alliance with PDP, but our National Chairman signed the MoU without our input. For the senatorial and House of Representatives, NCP candidates tried, but the election was not free and fair. Would you say the governorship and House of Assembly would take the same pattern, especially in Lagos? The governorship election will be worse than that of the Presidential election. All the hoodlums across the state have been bought over by the ruling party just for that election alone. Governorship and House of Assembly election will be very tough and rough in Lagos. I am convinced that the election will not be free, fair and credible. As for NCP, if we win in any area and they want to prove smart, we will make sure we get back our mandate through the legal means. You are a State House of Assembly candidate for Oshodi Constituency 1. What are your chances in the election? I have contested for councillorship election twice, Local Government Chairmanship position twice, State House of Assembly once. All these elections were rigged. I am a regular contestant in Oshodi. People have sympathy for me. I have a foundation in Oshodi, called Ibu Owo Foundation. This foundation has produced thousands of students through free computer training, free GCE, NECO, WAEC, JAMB tutorial classes. All these make my people to believe in me. I am the most popular candidate in Oshodi contest. Could you enumerate some of the things you would do in your constituency if you win? I will pursue the 10-CARE programme of the NCP. They include Employment Care, Food Care, Health Care, Housing Care, Education Care, Water Care, Electricity Care, Transportation Care, Telecommunication Care, and Security Care.