Abeokuta – Senator Ibikunle Amosun, the Ogun State governor, has warned President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, not to come to the state to lead workers’ protest against the government. Amosun gave the warning on Thursday when he featured on a live radio programme. Amosun accused Wabba of coming to play politics in the state with the proposed protest, and advised him to go and play the politics in his state. He noted that workers in the state were happy with his administration as their salaries and entitlements were being paid as and when due. It would be recalled that the NLC had given notice to the state government in respect of its decision to embark on a protest on March 5, 2019, to press home the workers’ demand for the payment of all outstanding salaries and entitlements, as well as the reinstatement of sacked labour leaders. Reacting to the threat by Amosun that the organised labour should not embark on the planned protest, the Ogun State Chairman of the NLC, Comrade Akeem Ambali, described it as a desperate move by a government whose lies and propaganda had been exposed. Ambali, who expressed this through a statement, said: “The sudden vituperations by Senator Amosun betrayed his inability to handle industrial labour relations maturely in line with global practices. “Labour wish to state that the empty threats and denial of evident diversion of bailout funds by the Federal Government’s Paris Club refund which was meant for payment of the backlog of unpaid deductions like cooperative, shilling fund, ileya and Christmas savings of Ogun workers running into billions of naira. “Refusal to pay salary and allowances of TASCE Omu workers and proscription illegally of trade unions in Omu, fraudulent diversion of Ogun workers contributory pension deductions running into 105 months, the highest in Nigeria, reduction of retirees gratuity against pension laws, and unpaid gratuities to public servants in Ogun State. “Threats to life of labour leaders, suspension and dismissal of labour leaders without following due process in order to cow and cripple labour unions to enable him continue this anti-labour policies cannot be seen by any reasonable mind as  just nor a godly or tagged political move by labour against government.” Ambali added: “Labour, therefore, wish to counsel Ogun State government that instead of resorting to blackmail, intimidation, and brigandage to oppress workers, it will be more honourable to adopt a mature approach of dialogue with labour before Tuesday, March 5 to resolve these issues as no man has a monopoly of power and wisdom, most especially when this immunity covered position will expire within three months. “Ogun State indigenes do not want to be tagged as citizens of state notorious of disparaging, insulting elders, national and global leaders but mature, civilised, and intelligently led people.” The state labour leader notified all security agencies to be more vigilant and provide security cover to all labour leaders to prevent their assassination before, during, and after the ‘mother of all protests’ coming up next week Tuesday. “While the Ogun NLC wish to state that since Governor Amosun was already aware of the postponement of the peaceful rally to Tuesday, March 5, his macho man interview was unnecessary,” the union leader said. He insisted that despite the threat by the state government, the protest would go as planned on Tuesday and called on all courageous Ogun State workers, retirees, veterans and labour leaders to come out en masse to join all labour leaders to condemn and force Ogun State government to change its anti-labour policies and programmes.