Adekunle Abdulkabir Akinlade is governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) in Ogun State. In this interview with IFEDAYO SAYO, he expresses optimism that he will win Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Excerpt: No doubt, most of you in the race are qualified. What is your unique selling point as a candidate? Let me put it this way,  I will be the first governor of this state who actually served as an appointee in the state. I was Special Adviser to the Governor on Taxation and Revenue, between July 2011 and January 2014, and I served in the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development between January 2014 and October 2014. That endears me into the hearts of the civil servants because I interface with them. Those I served with in the ministry know me well. So, among the candidates I have the unique chance among Ogun workers. I am from Ipokia Local Government, I am a current member of the House of Representatives, the committees that I have served in and those that I have chaired have given me a leverage to understand the workings of our dear state. I have interfaced with competent institutions and corporate organisation while I was SSA Taxation and Revenue, at the National Assembly I have interfaced with the Manufacturing Association of Nigeria (MAN), almost all the Managing Directors and Chief Executive Officers I have interfaced with. I was also Chairman Committee on Steel, I was Chairman ad hoc committee on Insurance, which means I interface with all ministries and agencies of government over insurance matters , defence, upstream downstream, Central Bank of Nigeria, everybody. None of other candidates have the wealth of experience that I have coming into this, both at the state and national level. I have the rare privilege of working with the governor; I shared his vision from day one when he started and look around the state and see what he’s been able to do. Though no man is perfect but he’s done the best he could and I believe very strongly that it is the same drum that will be beating, and every administration beats its own drum, but how we interpret and how we dance to the rhythm will be different. Amosun interpreted his drum the way he knows best he could. I have a very clear mind, a very clear vision of what I am going to achieve. We are well positioned appropriately to Lagos, to the West coast of Africa. Your principal, Governor Ibikunle Amosun, was in the eye of the storm during the presidential rally of APC. Will this not have negative implication on your campaign? I am a member of APM and I wouldn’t speak on what transpired in APC because I am not a member of APC. We went there to show solidarity to President Muhammadu Buhari who was also our presidential candidate. Whatever transpired at that point, I believe the security agencies are looking at it. I am not part of the security agencies and I don’t have access to that. What I will just say basically is that it hasn’t affected me in any way. I wasn’t in the crowd. The people saw clearly where I sat and when I was leaving the stadium. They saw clearly that I have continued to enjoy the full support of my people. How ready is APM for the governorship election? I want to look at it generally from the three senatorial districts. What we commenced on January 23, was ward to ward tour. One of those things I learnt from the political structure in the state is to penetrate people at the ward level. During the process, we went around the 236 wards. In the process, we were able to sell the APM brand. Picking cassava as our logo is strategic. First, most of our communities are rural. Secondly, cassava is a produce that is more accessible, which our people are more conversant with regardless of the zone, whether West, East or Central. That has worked very well for our people. We are doing well at present. For those who may not understand what happened during the Presidential and National Assembly polls, we got to a point where we realised as a party – when I said as a party I mean both All Progressives Congress (APC) and APM – that there was need to reach out to our people. The same people who voted for me on October 2, 2018 during the governorship primary will also make up their minds to vote again this weekend and we’ll win this selection. But, we got to a point where we realised that if we proceeded at the way we were going, Mr. President might lose the election in the state. That is how grounded APM has become in the state in the last two months. At that point, we have to agree within ourselves – the stakeholders – that it was important the president wins in the state, especially because of the rail project, which we want him to complete. Majority of our candidates who vied for the National Assembly elections lost. This is becausem three days to the poll, I came out to campaign openly for the president, telling our people to vote APC in the first election, to vote the president. It was important for us to do that because of the ongoing projects in the state. We realised that if the president doesn’t complete the projects – the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway, the rail project and others around the state, it will be difficult for me to increase the state revenue from N7million to about N15 billion or N20 billion that I am looking at turning the state revenue to. Thank God, he won and I am very happy about this. Where we are today, the governor had said it very clearly that if we came out openly and work with him and the president won, they would in turn work with us to ensure they deliver APM come March 9. It is painful to us that our candidates lost. But, if I look at what we stand to gain, I think that was strategic for us. We have reached out to everybody now and everyone is charged. Ogun West is ready to go for APM. For Ogun Central, you need to see what is happening. In Ogun East, I am confident that we will not get less than 40 per cent. So, if you look at where we are today, majority of those that voted for Mr. President in APC and APM are ready to vote for me. This election, by God’s grace, will be a landslide for me and I and confident that that will happen. I am praying that my vote counts, and my vote is protected. When I say my vote should count, I mean with the election umpire. When I say protected, that has to do with the security agencies. You said majority of those who voted APC during the Presidential/NASS polls are APM members. Are you saying without APM Buhari wouldn’t have won? I have said it clearly severally, based on where we are coming from, the people who voted for us during the October 2, 2018 governorship primary, are people of the state and members of the APC, who have remained resolute that the injustice meted out to me will not stand and that the wrong will be made right on March 9 election. I have said it many time, with all sense of responsibility that the president will not require Prince Dapo Abiodun to win election in the state, that we in APM will come out en mass and vote for the president, to the extent that we sacrificed chances of our party during the last election. Take Ado-Odo/Ota for example, if we had not campaigned openly for Mr. President, it would have been difficult and our House Representatives candidate would have won there. But, because we said everybody should vote for the president, our candidate lost in Ado-Odo/Ota, our candidate lost in Yewa North, our candidate lost in Abeokuta North, our candidate lost in Ifo, our candidate lost in Sagamu. Out of the six House of Representatives candidates we presented, only the one from Ipokia won. That is because it is my home front, where I voted. That tells you very clearly that it is a sacrifice that worth it.