Owerri – Following the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as the winner of the 23rd February Presidential election and subsequent issuance of certificate of return to him by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), HRH Eze Oliver Ohanwe, the traditional ruler of Ihim autonomous community in the Isiala Mbano council area of Imo State have said that he had been vindicated by his support and prediction that the president would be re-elected for second tenure. Eze Ohanwe, who is the deputy national chairman of the Association of Christian Traditional Rulers of Nigeria, disclosed this in Owerri while briefing media practitioners in the state. According to the monarch, who is also the spokesperson of South East Traditional Rulers” Council, “I was abused by some eminent Igbo sons and daughters and some politicians after insulting me even cast aspersions on me, all because of my support for Buhari and his administration. Some of them accused me of being anti-Igbo. I was highly misunderstood. “The truth is that I am a man that sees tomorrow, I understand Nigerian politics, the intrigues and the power play. I have worked, done businesses and lived in virtually all the geo-political regions of the country, so I know the people’s mindset. That Buhari won his closet rival, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of PDP with over 3.5 million votes, shows that President Buhari is still popular. Our people were deceived by the antics of the social media” he noted. He lambasted some of the people that called themselves Igbo political leaders and Ohanaeze Ndigbo leaders for being shortsighted in understanding the dynamics of national politics as well as former President Olusegun Obasanjo whom he alleged deceived the Igbos by his statements and antics while his Yoruba kinsmen voted the President favorably and have now cued in into the national politics. Eze Ohanwe regretted that Igbo have not learnt anything from the political mistake they made in 1979 by given maximum support to NPP instead of NPN as a national party as well as in 2015 when the political wind of change was blowing in favour of APC but they stick to PDP despite her glaring dwindling fortune and similarly when the Presidential odds favoured APC in 2019 they still clannishly throw their maximum support to PDP, dancing to the dictates of deceptive local, national & international media which prompted him then as a patriotic traditional ruler using the mass media to educate Igbos on the need to be on the main stream of national government. The traditional ruler insisted that Igbo leaders must change their ostrich attitude when it comes to national politics so as to always re-position the ethnic nationality into the national grid of power. To him, Hausas, Fulani’s and Yoruba understand the game and they play it well. On the issue of irregularities and violence that were said to have characterized the Presidential election, Eze Ohanwe said that all over the world no election has been declared perfect and that if proper investigations are carried out you will discover that all the major contenders are guilty of one electoral offences or the other. While advising Nigerians on the need to give priority attention to the protection of the nation’s image, he called on Igbo political leaders as well as Ohanaeze Ndigbo to strategize ahead of 2023 and be committed to bridge building and weeping of sentiment so that it will be easy to get Nigerian President of Igbo extraction then. The traditional ruler who is also popularly known as Obi Gburu Gburu of Igboland, advised President Buhari not to discriminate against any ethnic group as he promised in his presidential victory speech to run an inclusive administration. Eze Ohanwe further enjoined the President Elect, to use this opportunity of his second tenure to correct the wrongs people complained of and give priority attention to issues of regular power supply, Job creation, security, improved ICT, agricultural revolution, sustenance of war against corruption and reposition the country to an enviable right. The royal father assured the President that the Igbo are solidly behind him now that he has been re-elected. It would be recalled that Eze Ohanwe last April at the meeting of South East Traditional Rulers Council held in Ehime Mbano of Imo State became the first monarch to endorse the second tenure ambition of President Muhammadu Buhari.