Chief Adebayo Adelabu, the Oyo state All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate, is a former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and grandson of a prominent politician in Ibadan, Chief Adegoke Adelabu (Penkelemesi). In this interview with select journalists, he speaks on controversy trailing his emergence, plans for the people of Oyo state if elected and other issues. Excerpts: As somebody coming from the banking sector, what can you say has been your experience since you joined politics? In terms of day to day interactions and operations, there is a whole lot of difference between the corporate world and the political terrain. Number one of those differences is the fact that in the corporate world, we are dealing basically with the elites, the educated set of people and the least educated would be a school certificate holder, who would be carrying out menial jobs in the office and then a cleaner or a messenger. The preponderance of people you deal with in the corporate world are all graduates, so they understand your language, you can easily determine or predict their course of actions. But when you come to the political world, it’s a different ball game, you are dealing with gamut of people that exist in the country; from the professor to the PhD holders, to the graduates and the school cert holders and to the stark illiterates, to artisans, to traders, to market women, to everybody and unfortunately here, everybody has a voice because the vote of the professor is one while that of the cleaner is also one, so you don’t segregate, you don’t say this set of people are more important than this, even those, you know we have opinion leaders, we have leaders that people listen to, and those people to a large extent, a lot of them are educated, a large percentage of them are also not educated, which is in line with the setting in our country, because the population of the metropolis is quite small compared to the population of the hinterland. so when you get to the metropolis, you could see educated people as their leaders, you know, civilized people as their leaders, exposed people as their leaders. when you get to the hinterland, especially the satellite local government on Ibadan, or even in Oke-ogun and Ibarapa, you see that most of the leaders are very intelligent, they very experienced people but in terms of their level of education, it’s quite low. in terms of level of their civilisation, it’s quite low. In terms of their level of exposure, it’s also quite low. But their people believe them, their people follow them, so you must be able to interact with them with different tactics. when you interact with someone that understands when you speak in English, is different from when you interact with someone that does not understand English at all, you and the areas that interest them also differ. In terms of what are the needs of the people in the metropolis, what are the need of the people in the rural areas, because you need to understand these intrigues and dynamics. So, political terrain is more complex in terms of dealing with people and in terms of the relative importance of each player in the political terrain you. As an economist and a trained banker, you give account of every kobo spent but politics is far from this. How have you been coping with politicians’ demands? I have been funding my electioneering by myself. The only thing is that I will not stress myself beyond what I can afford. I have my budget for this particular process and I am trying as much as possible not to exceed my budget so that i don’t regret my actions afterwards. I am telling you that the only way you can stimulate people is to cater for them, is to care for them. Politics involves a lot of activities. You cannot be everywhere at the same time. You send people out, you send people on errands, they run duties on your behalf, whether you are there or you are not there. You have to entertain people, you have to pay for transport, you have to give them gifts. Politicians like a lot of gifts, the things that come to them free. You must be seen to be open minded and you must be seen to be generous. You must be seen to care for their interest so that when you get into government, whatever you do with your money, they believe you will do more when it gets to governance. But if you are tight fisted, if you’re high handed, it will be quite difficult for you to penetrate our politicians. I am not saying that you should spend to the extent that you become extravagant. Fortunately for us, our people are also contented with little so far they know it’s regular; they come to your house they eat every day and when they’re going, you give them transport fare of say five hundred naira, one thousand naira. So far they know that when they get to your house, they will eat, they will get transport fare to go back home, they will keep coming and once in a while, when they have major expenditure like they want to pay school fees, they want to pay health bills and you are able to assist them, maybe not carrying everything hundred percent, at least you’re able to support them, they will keep respecting you and they keep believing whatever you’re promising them that you would do when you get to government. So, to go back to your question, I would just say that it the complexity of the people that you deal with, the complexity of the attributes of each of these people, the complexity of the interests of these people, because in the corporate world, all the interests are being streamlined, but it is complex here. The hallmark of a good politician is to be able to cope with these complexities without complaining. How far have you been able to douse post-primary misgivings and the level of reconciliation today in Oyo APC? I am going to be straightforward, our party being a political party in government attracted a lot aspirants, wanting to occupy various positions. However, we are happy at the calibre of people that showed interests in aspiring for offices. For example, the gubernatorial aspirants we had then were about 22 people that showed interest. At the end of the day, eight people bought nomination and expression of interest forms. If you look at the calibre of these eight people, they are all competent people that have made their marks in their various careers, but the position is reserved for just one person. So, you see that I make bold to say that, in spite of these number of people, in spite of the profile of these people, and the expectation of the general public is that our primary election was going to be turbulent; was going to be tough, but we disappointed them by having the best and most peaceful primary election throughout the country devoid of complaint, protests, you understand? And on the field that day, you will see that majority of the aspirants stepped down and the delegates were happy. That goes to tell you that the person they stepped down for was quite acceptable to the majority of the people, if not all the people. We were there from 10am in the morning of the 31st of September till the morning of 1st of October, 2018. No single person left the field, the ovation that followed the stepping down of each of these candidates, showed that the candidate that would be finally selected who happened to be my good self was widely acceptable to all the members of the party. But at Senatorial Level, house of Representatives and the house of assembly level. All the aspirants who failed to clinch the ticket, it is not all of them that will be happy. There would still be a couple of disgruntled party members or aspirants, both the aspirants and their supporters. So, we recognised that fact, immediately after the primary, we set up reconciliation committees that actually called all these aspirants, and we appealed to them that now that we are done with the primary election, our party remains as one party, and that everybody should try as much as possible to contribute to the success of party at the coming general election and everybody agreed and they were all happy with the reconciliation process. Beyond the governor talking to them, I also did, the party chairman and the party excos also did their own, they also intervened in the reconciliation process. At my level as the candidate, I have also called a lot of people to let them know that the party must not be divided, and that it is the unity of the party that can give us electoral victory. And I can tell you that everybody is working with us now. All the major aspirants are working with me, we talk to ourselves everyday. Eruobodo, that’s Olusola Ayandele talks to me; Chief Niyi Akintola, SAN we discuss, Joseph Tegbe, we discuss; Dr. Owolabi Bablola, we discuss. All of them have indicated interest to participate in the campaign that we are just starting. I can tell you that APC in Oyo state today is one at all levels, not just at the gubernatorial, at the senate, house of reps and house of assembly. The Communications Minister, Barrister Adebayo Shittu is challenging the process that through you up and appears adamant not to withdraw the case from court, is this a challenge to you? Talk is cheap, anybody can say anything, but it’s left for you to hear, and your job is to evaluate and assess the reasonability or the reasonableness of what he is talking about. The Minister of Communications who happens to be my Egbon and a Party leader did not challenge my election as the party representative for the gubernatorial election. The case he instituted was against the national executive committee of the party that screened him out. They said he was not qualified to be given gubernatorial form, for reason of not having observed his NYSC requirement. So, it doesn’t have anything to do with the state at all. So, he sued the national exco of the party and the case is in court, whether not have NYSC certificate is a requirement for disqualification or not. That’s not for me to decide, that’s not for the governor to decide, that’s not for the state executive to decide, it’s for the court to decide between Shittu and the national excos. And let me tell you, talking about justice, talking about restitution, he doesn’t talk about the practicality of restitution. We know the timeline, we know the timetable, election is in less that two months. You want the state to go back, and who assured him that he’s even going to win. So, I do not think it’s what dissipating so much energy on, he’s just blabbing. He said he won’t support your ambition and won’t campaign for APC in Oyo state? He doesn’t have to support my ambition; he’s just one person out of about over seven million people, in Oyo state. Someone that likes what you have will not support you of course. Do you want him to be gathering drums and be drumming support for me? Because he likes it, at least something he has tasted to for so many years you understand? And I am getting it with the support of our party, which to him was on a gold platter? Do you expect him as human being with blood flowing through his veins you know, so let him feel the way he feels. If you don’t want someone to cry, please don’t beat him. The moment you beat the person, please leave him to cry. You cannot control the two. Prior to your emergence, there was this report that you bought your way in, that you bribed the governor with ten million dollars before you could secure the ticket. Because all the while, the governor was supporting Joseph Tegbe, but all of a sudden, your candidature overwhelmed the governor and people insinuated you exchanged something in return? Let tell you, we live in an environment where rumour mongering thrives, but before I react to any rumour, I also expect right thinking people to also evaluate how sensible the rumour is. You are in my house now, do I look like someone who can buy governorship primary ticket with ten million dollars? We are talking about N3.6billion, for what? Do I look like someone that has such money? Some say you are very rich, and arguably the richest among the contenders.How true is that? That’s relative. I have worked for about 27 years and I have occupied top positions in all my career. And you know what it means to occupy top positions in the largest bank in Nigeria; as Executive Director of First bank for over five years? As General Manager of Chartered Bank, within and outside the country for three years and as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria for over four years and as an Accountant, I also know how to add one naira to another one naira and make it three naira. I can say I am just comfortable. You say i’m the richest, that is just insinuation, nobody sees the other’s account balance, I am comfortable. So, number two point is that, do you think the governor looks like someone that is so lowly in terms of integrity that he would want to sell the ticket of gubernatorial candidature of our party? Number three is that you’ve bribed the governor? And on the field that day when my name was announced as the preferred candidate, you were there, as a pressman, you saw the ovation; the loud ovation that welcomed my announcement as the preferred candidate. That means i must have given them, all of them, all the party members, money as well. So, I think it is a distraction that we should just avoid. What are the chances of your party winning this election in view of the poverty and hunger across the land? You know, I keep saying something that Rome was not built in a day and they say the journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step in the right direction. No pain, no gain. If you trace the history of the economy of country in the last 16 to 19 years, we all know what caused what you are seeing today. And fortunately, I was also in public service when all these economy downturns set in. And I can without being partial objectively say that where we are today, in terms of the infrastructures and the potentials of the economy to get better, we’re better off than what the APC government met. We may not have been seeing these dividends of democracy in the manner that we expected, but I believe; I am very sure that it will soon come, because all the things that are supposed to be in place for it to come are already being put in place, in terms of infrastructural supports and all the social benefit programs that the government is putting in place. I believe that this government has only spent three and a half years, and they are almost at the verge of reaping the fruits of all the hard work they have put in the last three and a half years. Allowing the government to continue for another term, will surely enable them to reap that benefit, and the people will feel the impact of all their policies and their programs. But if you cut it off now and allow another party to come in, they are going to suspend everything that APC has been doing, and they will start all over again. So we will even start from square zero not from square one, so it will be from frying pan to fire. If a party has done it for sixteen to programs. That is what i believe, you can see the roads are all being completed, the major roads, Lagos-Ibadan expressway, Ogbomoso-Ilorin road, and a couple of other roads like that. You’ve seen all the rail projects that were initiated by the previous administration and abandoned being completed, Abuja-Kaduna is working, Lagos-Itakpe to Warri is working now, Lagos-Ibadan, they are almost completing it, and they are doing Port-Harcourt to Maiduguri, Look at the second Niger bridge, they are almost completing it now. I mean, these are pointers to the fact that this government means well for the people, and by the time all these are in place, that dividend that we’ve been expecting will now come up. So i’m just appealing to our people that they should exercise patience, and all these things they are expecting, they will surely get it.