Considering the various issues with the process of the presidential and National Assembly elections and the delay in releasing results of the elections, a situation where results were released three days after election, observers believe this may call for a review of the entire electoral process by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The 2019 elections would soon be over and INEC would have an opportunity of four years to plan for another election, and that may present a good opportunity for the electoral body to review the previous process, identify loopholes for corrective measures. The issue at hand is that the winner of the presidential election and some National Assembly elections, which took place last Saturday were only announced on Tuesday, three days after voting took place. The question on the lips of many would be: what could cause the delay in having results released a day after an election? It becomes disturbing because some people would be eager to see who the new leaders would be, while others would be disturbed that having to wait for three days to have results released could give room for manipulation. It is for the same reason that it would be necessary to consider areas that could have contributed to this delay. Watching the collation officers read out long list of names of political parties, most of them not garnering up to 20 votes from a State is unimaginable. These officers would exhaust energy and time calling long list of names, wasting precious time of other stakeholders, leaves much to be desired. The attendant cost of printing election materials, like the ballot papers would be another area to be addressed because the huge cost would deplete the nation’s already lean resources. There is the issue of spacing between parties on the ballot paper, which had to be reduced to accommodate 91 parties, that in itself has the capacity of increasing the number of void voters. Since 70 percent of Nigerian voters are mostly uneducated people, it means that additional time and recourses would be expended on voter education. If INEC had a herculean task compiling results of 91 political parties, it becomes necessary to look at these parties closely and consider relevant areas that would need to be reviewed. A check of the parties’ structures to assess their capacities as political parties may be necessary. This will lead to the question of whether the electoral body did due diligence on these parties before approving their registration. A look at some of their activities showed that they lacked the human and material resources to remain as political parties, as some of them do not even have offices in major States across the country. The job should be cumbersome for INEC with the attendant cost of printing ballot papers, getting additional staff to work during elections and other cost associated with logistics Victor Akande, lawmaker representing Ojo constituency 1 at Lagos State House of Assembly recently urged INEC to reduce the number of political parties in Nigeria in order to make the electoral process less cumbersome. Akande argued that the ongoing amendment to the 1999 Constitution should address the multiplicity of parties because it could engender confusion and increase the cost of conducting elections. The lawmaker noted that such multiplication would also increase the number of invalid votes during elections It is very clear that the inability of INEC to release the result of presidential and National Assembly elections promptly may not be unconnected with having too many political parties, some of which did not field candidates in some States and elective positions but INEC still spent money to have their names on the ballot papers, even when their candidates did not record any vote from a polling unit in some cases. There is this speculation in some quarters that our democracy had been slow without any reasonable progress because INEC had occupied itself with the registration of additional political parties, even when the country had 68 political parties already which was relatively too many, INEC recently approved registration of additional 23 Political Parties, bringing the number of political parties qualified for the election to 91. One may begin to wonder if it is not easier to register and obtain approval for a Political Party than to register and obtain a Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC). People are beginning to suspect that the reason for new party registrations six months to the national elections could be for some ulterior motives, rather than widen the political space or deepen our democracy as explained in some quarters. INEC has the responsibility to produce guidelines for party registration, even though the constitution does not limit number of political parties, but the issue of delay in getting result released long after an election has been conducted has the capacity of ridiculing the achievement made so far by the commission, and give room for suspicion that INEC might be working with the ruling party to manipulate result under the guise of having a huge work load occasioned by long list of political parties, which INEC anyway had brought upon itself. Humphrey Nwosu, former chairman of Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO), now INEC, in an interview monitored on Channels television wondered why there should be as many as 91 political parties, most of which were not viable and the attendant cost of conducting elections. He enumerated reasons why it would be abnormal to have such long list of political parties, suggesting that INEC should do a review of the political parties, note those that should be delisted for better management of election process. Again it may be important to know if INEC actually did due diligence before registering these parties, otherwise why would a party exist without any office, it becomes important that INEC should review the registration of these parties, assess their capability to remain registered based on their performance at this election, after which it would as a matter of urgency delist those one which fail the test. Sina Fagberon-Byron, former presidential candidate of KOWA party was of the view that INEC should use this particular election to streamline the political parties which he agreed were too many. He suggested that INEC should cancel the registration of any party which did not win any political seat during the election, He also suggested that be law to reduce political parties to certain number. He added, ‘Why can’t we have regional and political parties. Can’t I have a party based in an issue and say this is my political party? I can decide to operate only in Lagos with the understanding that I cannot participate in election beyond local government” he said. He said that to reduce the number of political parties, may not be easy because legally it would be seen as infringing on the rights of people to association. He likened it to reducing the number of companies that had been registered by corporate affairs commission because political parties should have freedom of association. He noted that you INEC could reduce the number of political parties that would be allowed to contest in an election if they have stipulated conditions that they must meet before elections. He said there could be pre-election criteria, where any party, ready to contest an election should be able to meet the condition. Fagberon-Byron said that restructuring would help to reduce Nigeria into a more manageable size and that in turn would reduce the clamour for political party registration because people would be less interested in registering political parties since their interest would have been protected through their involvement in governance and no one would feel neglected