Snr. Evang. Gabriel Isibeluo, the chairman of the Delta state chapter of Host Communities of Nigeria Producing Oil and Gas, (HOSTCOM) says voting as a block is a milestone that will be achieved by the group for governor Okowa. The chairman stated this recently, when HOSTCOM took its election sensitisation and mobilisation town hall meeting to indigenes of Itsekiri ethnic nationality. He called on Oil and Gas Host Communities to cast their votes for Governor Ifeanyi Okowa again on the March 9 governorship polls, pointing out that until his assumption of office, HOSTCOM as a pressure group has no Secretariat but today the story is different through the magnanimous disposition of the SMART Agenda. Osibeluo stressed during the meeting that having completed about 80% of demands laid before him, HOSTCOM saw the need to support the governor for his second term bid, which he believe will take the group to a higher level. Commending his team for keying into the vision of wholly supporting Sen. Okowa, the evangelist disclosed that the town hall meetings which had stretched into the second week, is already yielding results for the pressure group. He noted that it was time for members of HOSTCOM to secure appointments as other people in government agencies, especially the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC). He added: “When we say we are taking HOSTCOM to another level, we are not about attacking any political party. As a pressure group, we boast that it is our struggle that brought DESOPADEC, but we cannot say ‘this is what we got from bringing DESOPADEC. “This is the next level we want. We decided that we move to the level where we vote as a block and we won’t hide. The governor wants support. We will put out our chests and ask, what do you have for HOSTCOM, so that when the government will be formed, HOSTCOM can write a list as others will be doing. “It is necessary we achieve that milestone. For us to do this, we have to get our PVCs. We all have to vote one choice. We want to work with Sen. (Dr.) Ifeanyi Okowa, who is our governor. “As at today, we have a chairman, MD, five executive directors and about 15 commissioners. We want to be a part of the next board. My duty as a chairman is to produce people in the board,” Evang. Isibeluo emphasised. He also recalled the group’s visit to the Olu of Warri, Ogiame Ikenwoli, who tasked HOSTCOM on unity, saying it is an advice that must be taken with a pinch of salt. Earlier in his welcome address, the chairman of Itsekiri ethnic nation, Justice Mene, appreciated the efforts of everyone that graced the event. They cut across Executive members at the state and ethnic level, elders, women and youths of HOSTCOM including Elder Okorodudu, Lube Oristuwa (DESOPADEC coordinator Warri South), Comrade Amalihi Stephen among other dignitaries. Meanwhile HOSTCOM’s chairman also took the message to the Isoko Unity Hall, Oleh, in isoko South council area of Delta state, during a town hall meeting organised to sensitise and mobilise people of Isoko ethnic nationality in the 2019 general polls. Isibeluo stressed that HOSTCOM is not out to displace those holding political offices from power but it is only seeking the path that will bring benefits to those it represents. While urging the people to vote for the incumbent governor, Sen. (Dr.) Ifeanyi Okowa, the chairman noted that the group’s call for his re-election was informed by his outstanding performance and swift response to the demands of HOSTCOM. He said: “For government, to listen to us, we have to come together. We don’t want HOSTCOM to vote for nothing. Why do we need to vote as a group? So that at the time the next government will be formed, HOSTCOM will be part of the government”. Assuring that the group was not influenced to campaign for the governor, he added, “We are not paid to do what we are doing today. We are only doing it out of love and passion for what we stand to benefit as a group. “The vision for the mobilisation and sensitisation of our Indigenes is for us to be a bloc in the government. We are not organizing this to chase out people in government, only for us to be part in it. Our ticket is our PVC,” the HOSTCOM boss said, encouraging them to get their Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVC). Reintroducing the various ethnic chairmen, Isibeluo told Isoko people that they have and will still take same message to other ethnic nationalities. Also speaking, the national secretary of HOSTCOM, Dr. Peter Egedegbe, noted that Governor Okowa’s identification with HOSTCOM is a first of its kind from any government, adding that it will bring more dividends of democracy for the group to support his re-election bid. Mr. Morrister Idibra, who was the Chief host, had earlier told the people that the meeting is to make them see ways that will move their communities forward. In another development, the Chairman informed the gathering that HOSTCOM will hold a joint rally to sensitise and mobilise the people of the state to vote for the re-election of Gov. Okowa on March 9 for his outstanding performance in the last four years. Ayiri Raises Alarm Over Oil Spill In Escravos River The Ologbotsere of Warri Kingdom, Chief Ayirimi Emami has raised alarm over pollution of Warri/Escravos River in Delta State, which was purportedly caused by the spill from the Warri Escravos crude oil line. Emami in his disclosure said that he discovered the environmental pollution when he travelled to his home-town of Ugborodo, Warri South-West Local Government Area to perform his civic voting right, saying that he has called on the Minister of Environment, Suleiman Hassan and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe kachikwu to immediately set up machinery in motion for prompt cleanup of the spill, to prevent epidemic and further destruction of aquatic lives. According to Emami, apart from the Ministries of Environment and Petroleum Resources, other relevant government agencies such as NOSDRA should launch inquest into the possible cause(s) of the crude oil spill, to avert recurrence with a view to saving the country from economic loss, “considering the importance of Warri Escravos Crude Oil Line to the country”.