Lawmaker representing Lagos East senatorial district, Senator Gbenga Ashafa has urged Lagosians to troop out enmasse and vote for Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Saturday’s governorship election in order to ensure that the progress and developments being enjoyed by Lagosians is not truncated. He also enjoined Lagosians to vote for APC candidates who are vying for Assembly seats so as to make laws that will aid the transformation of the state. The lawmaker made the remarks when he embarked on a door to door campaign to draw support for Sanwo-Olu and his deputy Dr. Obafemi Hamzat as well as all APC House of Assembly Candidates in Lagos East in conjunction with Coalition of Gated Estates within the Lagos East Senatorial District yesterday. According to him, The Door to Door Campaign was embarked upon “for the sole purpose of sensitising the residents of Lagos East Senatorial District on reasons why they should vote for the APC candidates in the upcoming governorship as well as House of Assembly Elections”. Speaking further, he said “Firstly let me commend the Lagos East coalition of Gated estates for coming out to embark on this door to door campaign with me. You will recall that we had a similar door to door campaign prior to the February 23rd General elections in Magodo Phase 2 and environs. We thank God that our effort was not in vain as President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo emerged winners”. “Lagos as we all know has enjoyed good governance since the inception of democracy. From the time of our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to our ever capable Minister, Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN) and our vibrant Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. Now it is time to vote for continuity, competence and Experience” “Babajide Sanwo-Olu has already revealed his 5-point agenda for Lagos tagged project ‘Theme’. ‘THEME’ stands for Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology, Making Lagos 21st century Compliant and Entertainment and Tourism. These are areas that he intends to focus on extensively to take Lagos to a higher level. It is important that we let our people be aware of this project to enable them understand the reason why they should come out and support him and other APC Flag bearers in Lagos East. Hence this door to door campaign”. In conclusion, Ashafa everyone to come out and vote for the APC candidates. He said “ I urge you all to come out en masse to deliver on this mandate. Over the years, I have relied on your votes and we have never failed to deliver for APC. Now it is time to do it again” The Door to Door campaign kicked off at Isheri into Magodo Phase 1 and ended at the campaign train at Omole Phase 2 with an interactive session with the Estate Executives at the Omole Residents Association Secretariat. The procession is expected to continue on Wednesday and Thursday into at least 40 gated Estates within the district. Part of those who joined in the campaign were Mr. Dele Lanisa (Chairman, Omole Phase 2 Residents Association), Alhaji Lanre Bakare (Chairman, Magodo Phase 1), Mrs I.G Ogunbile (CDA Chairman, Otedola Jubilee), Mr. Gbolahan Bagostowe (Former Chairman, Shomolu L.G.A), Hon. Kayode Kazeem (APC Leader) and Hon. Tijani Jimoh (APC Leader). the General Manager made a distress call to the Commissioner of Police. The attacks didn’t just stop at Lafiyawo village and Progress Radio; they came into Gombe town, destroyed properties, they also attacked the houses of APC stakeholders in the State. The family house of the APC candidate, Alh. Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya was also attacked by the hoodlums. The hoodlums during one of the attacks injured a police officer attached to the campaign Office of the All Progressives APC”. “The calculated attacks were executed in the company and obvious direction of the Governor and his gubernatorial candidate, Sen. Usman Bayero Nafada. During the attacks, they were issu