The Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN) has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his re-election, just as it urged him to implement the new National Minimum Wage as soon as the Senate passed the bill since the House of Representatives had already done so. The congratulatory message was conveyed in a statement issued in Lagos yesterday signed by Comrade Alade Bashir Lawal, the ASCSN Secretary-General. He stated that the renewed pan-Nigerian mandate given to President Buhari and his political party, the All Progressive Congress (APC), is another trust bestowed on him, while he expressed the hope that the incoming government will not disappoint Nigerians. Lawal in the statement said: “We also wish to state that your re-election is indeed a manifestation of the undiluted love Nigerians have for you and the manner in which you piloted the affairs of the country in the past four years. You have indeed, through your actions, restored hope in the system and Nigerians from all persuasions have indeed through the electoral process said thank you for the modest achievements recorded so far in spite of the odds that confronted your regime when you came on board. “Hope is therefore, high that you will bring further fresh positive perspectives to bear on governance as is the case in the more advanced economies of the world. There is no doubt that the challenges ahead are enormous.  We nonetheless believe that with hard-work, perseverance, and selfless service to our fatherland, you will overcome and move the country to the next level as you pledged during the electoral campaigns,” the Union emphasised. The ASCSN pledged its readiness to continue to nurture the harmonious working relationship which existed between it and the Presidency during the first tenure and prayed that God would grant the President the strength, wisdom, knowledge and power to carry out the onerous task of leading this nation at this auspicious period. It commended President Buhari for keeping faith with the covenant he entered into with Nigerian workers not to send them to the oversaturated labour market through needless retrenchment and simultaneously ensured that salaries and allowances of public service employees were paid as and when due. “You did not only keep these promises but also settled promotion arrears and outstanding salaries owed Federal Government workers by your predecessors. We have no doubt whatsoever that those who were inadvertently omitted or were short-paid during the exercise will be settled soonest in order to bring this ugly chapter in the Federal Public Service to a positive end. “Also, you promised that the Federal Unity Colleges (FUCS) would continue to remain a commonwealth and not sold to the greedy few amongst us as being canvassed by some politicians. You have indeed kept faith to your promise,” Lawal added. According to the ASCSN, President Buhari had, on more than two occasions, approved bailout funds to the State Governments to enable them clear arrears of salaries and allowances owed their employees. It urged the President to further beef up the welfare packages of workers in his second tenure by implementing the new National Minimum Wage as soon as the Senate passed the Bill since the House of Representatives had already done so. “Mr President Sir, since no man is infallible, you may wish to reflect on your performance in the last four years and see if there are areas that need improvement in order to further enhance national cohesion, peace, prosperity, and development,” Lawal emphasised.