ABUJA – The Director-General of Nigeria Agriculture Quarantine Service (NAQS), Dr. Vincent Isegbe has said that Nigeria requires about N50billion annually for the provision of plant health infrastructure over the next five years. Isegbe, who stated this in Abuja yesterday on the occasion of the formal launch of activities to herald the International Year of Plant Health 2020, underscored the need to build a robust plant health system that could support the nation’s anticipated population explosion. According to him, “Plant pests damage 40 per cent of global food production and plant diseases destroy 10per cent of world food. “In other words, the combined effect of plant pests and diseases cuts global crop yield by half. The implication of this significant reduction in food production is that less food is available to meet the dietary needs of millions of human beings. “The threat of plant pests and diseases is exacerbated by trans-border trade. In these days of easier international movement and transportation, a wide range of plant pests and diseases are able to hitchhike to new frontiers.” He noted the United Nations General Assembly adopted the resolution to proclaim 2020 as the International Year of Plant Health on December 20, 2018, adding that the declaration stemmed from context of widespread concern about the state of food security and nutrition around the world. “The international community declared 2020 the International Year of Plant Health in order to increase awareness among policy makers and the public about the importance of plant health and the need to protect plant resources for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. “It may interest you that Nigeria voted in support of the UN resolution to recognise and protect plant health. This is a token of the commitment of the government to promote plant health policy at all levels in Nigeria. However, plant health is everybody’s business,” he said. Commenting further on the usefulness of plants to mankind, the Director-General, said human existence on the planet was sustained by plant functions, stressing that plants provided mankind with fresh air and food. He declared that plants produced the oxygen breathed, while also producing over 80 per cent of the food consumed by humans and animals. To this end, Isegbe called for massive investment in the upgrade and expansion of plant health infrastructure, warning that failure to invest in the plant health would plunge the nation into food crisis in the near future.