Lagos – Mrs Afikuyomi could not watch as they lowered her only son into the belly of the earth, his resting place forever. From the day she received the news that her missing son had been found floating on a canal, her agony started. “How can I ever forgive myself for sending my own son to early grave?” she lamented. Ade was not a ‘straight A’ student, but his grades in class were average. His mother, like every other mother, wanted him to work harder. To ensure he energed with flying colour in his West African School Certificate Examination (WASCE), few days to the 2018 edition of the exams, Mrs Afikuyomi gave him a final push. She told Ade that she and his father had sold most of their properties to pay for his fortunes, and if he fails even only one subject, he should not come back home. What she didn’t know was that she had indirectly sent her son to the edge of the cliff, awaiting that final push. After the results were released, Ade mustered all the courage he had, bought the scratch card and went to a cyber cafe to check his result; the result he now saw as his only ticket back home. He didn’t make it! The result was worse than his class grades and that was all the push Ade needed to do the unthinkable. Believing there was no other place to go than back to his maker, he threw himself into a canal. According to the family friend who narrated this story, his suicide would be carved in their hearts forever. The family friend, who preferred anonymity, a part time lecturer and a pastor, told Saturday INDEPENDENT that late Ade must have been depressed after hearing over and over how he must not return home with a bad result. That may have clouded his mind in the exam hall while writing the exams. He must have spaced out many times during exams due to pressure of not disappointing his parents. And after he saw the results, his already battered mind could not take it anymore and he ended it all. Ade, 16-year-old and the only son of the family was a victim of parental threat which led to depression before his eventual end. The sad story of late Ade is one out of the many suicidal stories that flood social media in recent times. It is a typical example of what depression can do to anyone who cannot share their state of mind. The reoccurring cases of suicide have opened the eyes of many Nigerians that there is need to pay attention to depression, which used to be seen as illness that is synonymous to developed countries like America. Many are of the opinion that depression only affects poor people. This notion has been flawed by many celebrities and clinic psychologists. Some celebrities have agreed that some of the things they read about themselves on social media are one of the reasons they get depressed. Popular actress and model, Lilian Afegbai, at the launch of her lingerie line, ‘Lily’s Secret’ shared the story of how her first produced movie led her into depression. “The movie I won the AMVCA award with is a challenging movie. It led me into depression. I was depressed for months. People wouldn’t understand what I went through. It was hard. Asides the fact that I never expected that award, I know what I went through. I was bullied during the movie production. Some felt I was not there and can’t make it. I called my friend, Azuka and cried many times. I told her I was tired and done. I locked myself in my house for days without coming out. My friend Layole Oyatofe said she called and I wasn’t picking up. She came to knock on my door. She saw me and I had not eaten for days and I was on the floor. She had to rush me to the hospital. People don’t see these phases that you go through because you are a celebrity,” she said. Afegbai said money cannot cure depression. “I think people need to start paying attention to this depression. Some of us take it for granted. We need to look out for one another. Last year when I said I was depressed, I had a lot of money. Money is not the cure for depression. You can be very rich and still depressed. People need to pay attention to people around them. We need to start from you and I. Check up on your siblings, your neighbours. When you see someone behaving in a certain way, ask questions. It might seem that the person has their lives put together, but it might shock you that they don’t. You see them slaying on Instagram, it will shock you to know that it might be one way they are fighting it. We need to pay attention to our colleagues and our friends. Let’s help each other. I want to check up a platform where people who are depressed can come and we can share our problems together, because if you hear another person’s story you will realise that your own problem is nothing.  We also need to pay attention to rehabilitation. Depression is real and we need to tackle it so that we can stop losing people.” According to Regina Eya, a professor of Psychology at University of Nigeria, Nsukka, who presently lectures at the Enugu State University of Science and Technology, before someone commits suicide, the person must have shown signs of depression for a while and probably discovers that he or she cannot cope any more. “The present economic situation of this country can disillusion a weak person to commit suicide. I use the word weak because such a person must have told himself that he has nothing to lean on and does not trust even his maker, ‘God’, to proffer a solution. Though this is being subjective, but it is the reality,” she said. Speaking with Dr Charles Umeh, a Consultant clinical psychologist, Lagos University Teaching Hospital and a lecturer in Lagos State College of Medicine, he described depression as a stage that is marked by either a sad mood or loss of interest in ones’ social activity, as well as feeling of hopelessness, which might lead into suicidal aggression if not checked. He explained that everybody could have such a feeling of sadness, but when the state of sadness or low mood is persistent for at least two weeks, then a professional psychologist starts looking at a depressing that could be clinical. He pointed out some of the symptoms like loss of interest in usually pleasurable activities. Other things might follow it, things like difficulty in sleeping, poor appetite; some may gain weight, others may lose weight, loss of energy and some might have social withdrawal. “These are indications that there could be depression. It is from there we determine whether the depression is mild, moderate of severe,” he said. Dr Umeh, who is also the chairman of Psychotherapy division in Nigeria pointed out that breaking the chains of stigma, which discourage people from speaking up when they are feeling down is one of the major problems they face in the profession. He stated that the media should step in and continuously tell people that the fact that someone suffers from depression does not make the person mad. “Depression is a condition that is normal for everybody. Everybody goes through it. The only way to come out of it is only when you are able to discuss it with someone and that is when help can come. If you bottle it up, then it kills you faster. A lot of people are afraid to say it because when they do, they are seen as someone that has mental illness or they will be taken to ‘Yaba left’, which is another stigma. There are also some cultural stigmas like when a man says that his mood is low; his fellow men ask, “Are you a woman?” This is why people do not speak up when their mood is going down. But if we take it seriously, like when someone says they have headache, then people can express themselves. Breaking the chain of stigma should be of utmost concern. In some cultures, they tell you that once you are mad, you are always mad and nobody will accept you again for whom you are. Some will say there is madness running in that family,” he stated. He also pointed out that mild level of depression could lead to drug abuse. “The person is finding everything difficult to do. He or she is no more finding anything pleasurable, nothing is interesting anymore and so the person wants to take something that will kick him up again,” he said. Speaking further on the level where Nigeria is as far as having psychologists or ‘shrinks’ in different hospitals across the country that counsel people, he said that Nigeria is still at the lowest part of the ladder. “On a scale of one to 10, I will say two because we have shortage of trained man power. Many people jump into what they don’t know. Like we have people saying they are life coaches. The increase in quackery is because people are beginning to realise that there is a need. We as a body of psychologists are making moves to get a regulation towards controlling the practice of psychology in Nigeria. We will also have to certify whoever that wants to practice in Nigeria.” On the brain drain when it comes to people who studied Psychology in the university, Dr Umeh said that some of the students who read psychology that go into banking cannot be completely blamed. He stated that in health sector in Nigeria where there are people with occupational therapies, they have their scheme of service but there is none for a psychologist. “In the health sector, be you a doctor or a nurse, physiotherapist, there is a scheme of service but there is no scheme of service for a psychologist so where do you expect him to go to? That is why they go into other sectors to make a living because government has not understood the importance of a psychologist. Most of us who are practicing are at the mercy of whatever the medical director states,” he said. On finding a solution for depression, Dr Umeh said that speaking with a friend when the depression is at the mild level can help bring the person out of the depression but when it is from mild to moderate, it is best to talk to a psychologist. “If the depression is at the mild stage, you can talk to a friend to talk you out of it. But if you are fully into depression, like if the level is mild to moderate, you need to see a clinical psychologist because at that point you need psychotherapy to come out it. If you talk to a friend, your friend may turn around to use your information against you. Your friend is not trained to understand certain aspects of behaviour. What he or she may tell you may be damaging to your situation. When it gets to severe level, you will be admitted,” he said. Dr Umeh’s comment on how talking to friends may not be a good idea corresponds with what Betty Irabor once wrote on her Instagram handle on how she conquered depression. Part of what the CEO of Genevieve Magazine wrote said, “I spent the weekend in my bedroom; I had no urge to go anywhere. I was sad. My heart sank as I read about one suicide after the other. My soul finally gave in to grief when I read about the lady who packed her car on Third Mainland Bridge and jumped into the Lagoon… just another suicide? Abi? Our youths are overdosing just to get that momentary high as an escape from the real world, many more are on a suicide mission as they try to get to Europe through the hostile desert. Many are trying to escape from something and suicide seems the perfect escape. Suicide is not a way out. I thought it was when I tried it in the throes of depression many years back. But suicide isn’t ever a solution. I have had talks with a few people having suicidal thoughts and I am shocked that they all seem to believe there are no genuine friends to talk to. How can there not be? How can you call yourself a friend and yet your suicidal friends think you’re just going to mock them or not pick their calls because you’re tired of their hopeless and helpless stories?? What kind of a friend ignores another friend’s call for help?” Irabor in her post stated that depression is a real issue and until people start being their neighbour’s keepers like in the past before the Internet/phones became our neighbours, suicide rates will escalate; more will jump into lagoons, many will be found hanging, many will slash their wrists, many will jump in front of buses or jump from their balconies and many will overdose. Part of the solutions suggested by Professor Regina Eya was that it is time government starts looking into establishing psychology clinics in different communities to help people. “When someone has a headache, they go to a doctor to find solution to the pain they are feeling but when they have emotional problem, they keep it to themselves and try to manage it. Managing it is what leads to depression if solution does not come and from depression that is when you hear that the person killed him or herself. People do not like to talk to psychologists in this country. They believe once you talk to a psychologist, you are already going mad, which is not true. Psychology is the science of human behaviour. There is need to promote psychology and counseling in this country. Let’s have them in community centres, churches. Some churches are doing their best on their own but it is not enough to serve the whole country. Let people know that when they have emotional problem, they are supposed to talk to a psychologist to help them cope with life,” she said. Our reporter shared a story of how she bought Christmas gifts for two children of a woman who is presumed to have mental illness by the community. The woman, Iya Deborah, as she is fondly called in Okearo market where she used to sell foodstuff has seven children and was abandoned by her husband when the last son was barely six months old. Taking care of the children became difficult. There were times her neighbour in the market said she helped to feed the children as much as she could until one day, Iya Deborah started detaching herself from her children. She was said to always speak to herself and not talk to anyone. According to a source, her family bundled her to a spiritual home in her village for treatment where she stayed for more than one year. Now Iya Deborah is back, and though she communicates more than before, she keeps losing weight. She fights at any slight provocation and there have been cases of her taking her two young sons to an unknown place and leaving them there to come back on their own. Our reporter on that faithful Christmas bought some clothes and wristwatches for the two sons. Iya Deborah was happy that someone cared to buy her children something. She thanked the woman, but two weeks later, her reaction threw the journalist into confusion. Iya Deborah returned the clothes claiming it was not her children’s size. Having no other option, the reporter had to throw those items away since it became impossible to reason with her. Perhaps her depression was not managed well since she may not have been taken to a professional psychologist. The family has managed to take the two sons away from her, still, Iya Deborah walks around like a normal person. She dresses well but her weight loss is severe and she is possibly in need of better medical attention before it becomes dire.