The soon to be inaugurated 9th session of the National Assembly come June, 2019 may yet again see a new breed of leadership that’s likely to defile the usual suspects among too contenders. Although, the contest will still throw up old foes in the persons of incumbent Speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara and Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila, factors likely to militate against them according to insider sources are stronger than they can appreciate for now. On the part of the Speaker, whom despite finding himself in what is apparently a weaker minority of an opposition compared to 2015, is still eyeing the coveted seat counting on his supposed goodwill among retur ning members and the hope of rallying the newcomers to his side using financial inducements and promises of good committee portfolios. Sources following the development told our reporter that a huge budget for the project had been set aside by the speaker even before the elections, saying that the incumbent is ready to retain the seat irrespective of his party’s minority status. “The speaker believes he has the right to contest as a member since the constitution did not spell out that only the party with majority in the House or Senate will produce presiding officers. It says, ‘members will elect the speaker from amongst themselves’. “Again, the speaker also thinks that he has done enough for many of the returning members who are supposedly close to him to enable him get their support and backing even if the majority party decides otherwise. “But while he has the right to contest the speakership, he’s forgetting that APC will never allow what happened in 2015 to repeat itself in 2019. In fact, the president will not allow a known enemy of his policies to sit on that chair again, democracy or no democracy”, the visibly confident returning APC lawmaker said anon ymously. He disclosed that “apart from losing his ground by joining the PDP which is now in a more weakened minority than it was in 2015, the speaker’s leadership style and relationship with members are enough to disqualify him”. He said members had suffered humiliating treatment in the hands of the Speaker each time they sought to meet him at home, with many co