Lagos – As First Bank Plc kicked-off its 125 years operations in Nigeria, Adesola Adedutan, its Managing Director has disclosed that the bank is processing more than 20 per cent of the entire banking transactions in the country. Addressing the media at the weekend in Lagos, Adedutan said the sheer volume of transaction has placed the bank as the dominant financial services provider of trust and security in the country. He said the bank, which was established in 1894 has over 20,000 employees with more than 17 million customer account and processing more than 20 per cent of the entire transaction that happen daily in the Nigeria’s financial  sector. “Today in Nigeria, we are a dominant player in the financial services sector with over 13,000 agents banking across Nigeria; we are the only bank that have locations in the length and breadth of this country; we have representative of first bank in the 774 local government areas in Nigeria; we have the largest spread of ATM in the country and we have the largest customer base. “We are celebrating 125 years of providing top-class financial services to the country; 125 years of supporting government and the Nigerian economy and 125 years of providing real values to all our critical stakeholders, our staff, government and the regulators,” he added. He described First Bank is a brand of strength, stability and enduring legacy exemplified in interventions and economic development initiatives across societies, adding that the brand had over the decades made dreams become reality for millions across the world. “We have completed millions of transactions, received billions of deposits and given out trillions of loans and advances – that’s what makes us a bank of first choice. “We are gratified by the laughter, the handshakes and the spontaneous hugs from the satisfied customers, that keep us going and make us part of the community we serve and a worthwhile member of the world we live in. “Since launching in 1894, First Bank has established itself as a brand of strength and dynamism, with the vision to be the leading international banking group in Sub Saharan Africa. Our brand is at the heart of the holistic experience we seek to deliver to our stakeholders perpetually, which is essential to retaining patronage and the competitive edge that keeps us at the coveted position of the market leader.” Also speaking on the bank’s achievement, Dr. Oba Otudeko, Group Chairman, FBN Holding, who went down memory lane to trace the beginning of First Bank in Nigeria, said in 1894, a boat berth somewhere around marina with Mr. Alfred Jone who had a vision that in order for the business of both the public and private sector to go on successfully, financial services have to be woven into the fabrics of the society. “And that was where First Bank started. Since 1894 we have been impacting society in a lot of ways through the activities of our bank. We have founded an institution that have given birth to so many other institutions because being at the pioneering position of the industry we have found ourselves, our  workers and staff sprung out of us to become the founders of several other banks in Nigeria today.” He said he was particularly excited and privileged to be at the fulcrum of the 125th anniversary of the institution called first bank, noting that the celebration is a discourse on banking as a financial service in the development of the economy and Nigeria nation. “We also owe a major responsibility as a leading member of the capital market to strengthen governance and we are deeply committed to good governance to the over a million shareholders who are owner of the bank”, Otudeko added.