With elections over, here comes the hard part, as Nigerians urge President Muhammadu Buhari to explore quick wins in alleviating the sufferings of the masses as well as making lives more meaningful through checking of incessant killings in the land. President Buhari secured a second term in office last month, defeating his main challenger, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP). The implication is that Buhari gets a second chance to fix an economy caught in the middle of weak growth and rising unemployment. He also gets a chance to leave a lasting legacy in bringing the much needed change In his first four-year term, he had a shot at decades-old problems of poor infrastructure to a scarcity of jobs and endemic poverty. Buhari’s supporters say his intentions are good while critics contend that his economic policies are stumbling blocks and are doing the economy, and the same poor he is desperate to protect, more harm than good. In fact, critics are quick to point out his perceived disdain for private capital and are worried that his good intentions may lead nowhere, unless there is a change of economic ideology where private capital is allowed to unlock wealth and create jobs, thereby reducing poverty. More worrisome is the fact that Buhari’s disposition shows his conviction that his socialist programmes are enough, but the critics say the government’s limited resources lack the capacity to make a scratch. Consequently, they say now that he has another four-year term, he could either sink deeper into his errors or borrow a leaf from Ethiopia’s 42-year-old prime minster, Abiy Ahmed. Recently, in an interview with the Financial Times, Ahmed said his model to awaken Ethiopia, described by investors as Africa’s sleeping giant, was capitalism. Ahmed will achieve this by bringing down age-long barriers to private capital. Buhari’s track record implies a lack of belief in privatization, and this is manifested in insinuations in some quarters that he might reverse the exercise in some firms. Some Nigerians hold the view that past privatisation efforts have been dogged by corruption, though. Experts cite examples of countries, especially Hong Kong and China, where a significant portion of government budget comes from rents on public assets. They advise that a special purpose vehicle (SPV) be created to handle the relocation of public assets on prime land on which luxury apartment blocks could be developed and given out for rents. These are hardly new counsels, but they fell on deaf ears during Buhari’s first term. Many will hope he will have a change of heart and learn from successful leaders as well as from his own past mistakes and wise counsels from Nigerians. According to some analysts, president Buhari will have the opportunity to help himself to a quick win, in a broad push to step up the pace of economic reforms in his second term, when the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP) reaches its final execution point this year.  This is because the gas flare commercialisation programme, which seeks to bring an end to gas flaring in Africa’s largest oil producer, will see investors bid for the approximately 178 gas flare sites spread across Nigeria’s Niger Delta region. The President  approved the Flare Gas Regulation, which is the legal basis for the implementation of the NGFCP, in 2018. The first bid round for the flared gas was targeted for completion in the third quarter of 2018, but the process suffered a delay. The deadline for expression of interest (EoI) by investors seeking to be off-takers of the flared gas  expired  March 15, without any action taken. Investors that would be off-takers of the gas being flared by joint venture companies would save the country some $800 million annually and provide an estimated 300,000 indirect jobs. The gas flared can also provide additional 3,000 megawatts (MW) of electricity to the country per day. According to Friday Ameh, expeditious action is expected from the president in this area to make economy benefit from the flaring that has been going on for years without any policy direction from successive govcernments. “The result of the elections shows that President Buhari has been given a second chance to restore and stabilise the economy, and this he cannot afford to waste,” Ameh said. Analysts at FSDH Merchant Bank Limited, in a report, believe there are pressure points in the economy that the federal government must quickly address to stimulate broad-based and inclusive growth as they contend that,  the economy has not been expanding enough to lift its citizens out of poverty. Ayodele Akinwunmi, Head of Research and Strategy at the bank listed the economic pressure points to include weak disposable income; high unemployment rate; weak infrastructure development in the economy that may not support the growth ambition of the federal government; economic depression in the real estate sector; fragile foreign exchange market and weak revenue generation for the federal government, which has led to large fiscal deficits. He listed policy option to address the economic challenges to include the removal of all administrative delays in obtaining licences and approvals. This, he stated includes titles to landed properties for building and agricultural purposes. He urged the federal government to support the provision of long-term mortgage loans at concessionary terms for workers, in order to activate economic activities in the real estate sector in Nigeria “The removal of the ‘subsidy’ on the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) to free up more resources to critical sectors of the economy and to drive competition among the operators and attract investment in the sector,” he added. In addition, he said the CBN may also consider the removal of its multiple exchange rate system. Malachy Ugwummadu, National President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, (CDHR) in his view said there were several areas where the President worked tirelessly to reform, particularly the area of corruption which was a deadly plague that ate deep into the system. “Be that as it may, I cannot close my eyes to the rampant deaths that occurred during his administration and neither can I forget how the value of human life was drastically devalued far below that of cattle. I cannot close my mouth about the empty promises to rescue the abducted that this administration swore to fulfill. Those are just a handful out of the bucket loads of problems that the President failed to address,” he said. Speaking further, he said “I expect that President Buhari be more proactive in setting up his cabinet and not keep Nigerians waiting for six months before we know who is part of his team.” Wale Oyekoya, an analyst and CEO of Bama Foods lamented said that the acclaimed promises to fight the problems of insecurity is rather getting worse by the day as issues of herdsmen killing , kidnapping and other anti social vices is on the increase especially the Zamfara, Yobe, Plateau, Ekiti among others. Oyekoya noted that though President was able to address some of these issues with more rooms for improvement, stressing that President Buhari is a silent achiever compared to the previous administrations that talk more than achievements recorded. On the way forward, he advised that the President should hit the ground running immediately after inauguration of his second term. “He should constitute his cabinet with Nigerians with track records of success in the various sectors to ensure that a winning blueprint for fixing the myriad of Nigeria’s problems is executed. Adeola Elliott, an analyst said that the first tenure of Buhari’s government prioritized infrastructural rejuvenation, that it also reduced corruption minimally and that there were a number of social investments for the grassroots. He said however that, security and economic indices show significant failures. Ugwummadu, however called on the President to address the security concerns in the country, stressing that the incessant bloodshed must stop and a more proactive approach to ensuring safety of the lives and property of the Nigerian people must be given priority. “My expectations are one with Nigerians. I expect President Buhari to address the security concerns in the country. The incessant bloodshed must stop. We want a more proactive approach to ensuring safety of the lives and property of the Nigerian people,” he said. He also said that steps must be taken to repair the ailing economy. “We are aware that Nigeria is trying to survive after a recession, but I strongly believe more can be done to put our abundant natural resources and our bubbling manpower to efficient and good use. He further stated that the rule of law must be strictly followed, that from the number one citizen to the last, every Nigerian must follow the rule of law whether they agree with it or not. “The President as the number one citizen must be a role model in this regard. This is the only way we can continue to sustain democracy in Nigeria,” he added.