Comrade Francis ‘Niyi Ogunremi, Chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC) and Chairman, Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) in Lagos State, in this interview, spoke on President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory and the rejection of the election result by Atiku Abubakar of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), among other issues. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU How do you see the result of the Presidential election? The election has come and gone. But, some party agents raised some issues during the announcement. We need to study carefully the issues raised on the elections. The problem is with the people. In Lagos, only 21 percent of the registered voters voted. In Abia, it is not more than 40 per cent. This shows that Nigerians are not ready to elect their leaders. S’West, S’South and S’East are not ready to elect their leaders. But, we only complain. It is not so in the North. It is even worse than during President Goodluck Jonathan’s era. The way elections go in S’South and S’East, people from these areas may not be willing to vie for electoral positions. It seems S’South and S’East people are not willing to vote during elections. Northerners in Lagos transported themselves to their places for the elections. S’East and S’South should decide to get involved in the election of their leaders. Even if the results were manipulated, they were endorsed at local levels by party agents. How do you see Atiku Abubakar, the PDP candidate’s, rejection of the result and the threat to go to court? He has every right to reject the result and also to go to court. The issue is: Does he have reasons to go to court? Atiku and PDP say they have reasons. They are free to go to court and the courts are there to hear them. How do you see the violence that greeted the elections in some parts of the country? It is very bad. But, some of the videos being circulated online were not current.  The violence shows that we have not learnt to tolerate one another. The two contestants are from North. Atiku even lost in his polling booth and people there did not fight. What happened in Lagos and other Southern states are bad. Political parties ignite violence and turn around to cry foul. The INEC Chairman has said that he will investigate. We are expecting him to do so. Violence is common in presidential elections. Usually, when the presidential election has been won or lost, the other elections are usually peaceful. In this election, while the president and his party won in some polling booths, the other party won the House of Representatives or Senate positions. Election is not a do-or-die. Let people vote for the candidates of their choice. But, why should people allow themselves to be used to cause mayhem? Atiku and Buhari are not from the South. The northerners are not killing themselves. Yet, we in the South continue to kill ourselves. In some places, people claim that their votes were not counted. Does it mean that the parties’ agents did not sign the votes at the end of ballot? Where some parties do not exist, they engage in vote buying. This is wrong. Would you say the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) performed well in this election? To an extent, they did wonderfully well. People tried to destroy electoral materials in some places. People tried to force INEC to announce fake results. These problems are not of INEC making, but the people. The postponement was because INEC knew its strength and weaknesses. In some areas, INEC officials did not come on time. But, for the earlier postponement, the elections would have been a disaster. Several Nigerians called for the resignation or sack of INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu. Would you they were right? People would have taken the calls seriously if they were made by non-politicians. The opposition would be calling for the neck of the INEC Chairman. We should not take them seriously. APC is calling for cancellation of Akwa Ibom elections because Godswill Akpabio lost. When PDP lost in Kwara, it is termed rigging. APC and PDP look for where it works for them. Calling for the sack of INEC chairman is not tenable. He performed well. Even the international observers say so. What is the stand of Labour in this year’s general elections? Before the elections, Lagos TUC organised a workshop to enlighten our members on the elections and to vote for the candidates of their choice. Labour, especially the TUC, ensured that every member has his or her Permanent Voter Card (PVC). Labour did not have an anointed candidate. Don’t you think the approval of the N30,000 minimum wage could have affected Labour to tilt towards President Buhari? Have we got it? Only the House of Representatives okayed it. The Senate has not approved it yet. Labour cannot support the sitting government because of minimum wage. We have been fighting with it for over two years and we are yet to get it. It had continued to deny us our rights. Nigeria has 93 parties now. With about 500 awaiting registration, don’t you think the number should be reduced to about five? There are two sides to it. First is people’s quest for power. The second is the nation’s constitution. The INEC chairman cannot refuse anyone registering parties. The constitution should be amended to provide for stringent conditions for party registration. This will make it difficult for people to register parties easily. People who are desperate for power jump from one party to another when they are refused tickets. People also register parties to contest elections. If people are refused tickets, they should step aside. At a point, they could be invited to serve. Why should people be jumping from one party to another? It was not so in the past. If the National Assembly members know that proliferation of political parties is not helping matters, they would have presented a bill to check it. But, doing so will not be in their interest. Do you think President Buhari should now take another look at the Electoral Act Amendment Bill? The problem is the National Assembly. Are they sincere? Was the amendment in the national interest? If I am in power through a platform, is it fair that I dump that party? If I defect to another party, I should resign my position for the party to find a replacement for me. If the amendment is sincere, it should be signed. In Nigeria, our politics is to outsmart one another. Now that the election is over, if the amendment is for the good of the country, the National Assembly should represent it. With smaller parties getting seats, what do you think would be the shape of the next National Assembly? From statistics, APC will be in majority. But, in the next six months, I foresee another round of defections. For instance, Dino Melaye has said he will reconcile with his APC opponents. In Anambra, Ifeanyi Ubah, who left PDP, won in YPP. Many people just found themselves in new parties because they lost tickets. There is a lot of selfishness among our leaders. Ike Ekweremadu has been in the Senate for several years. Gbajabiamila has been in the House of Representatives for several years. Okorocha, after eight years as governor, is now going to the Senate, while he wants his son-inlaw to succeed him as governor. All these things are laughable. But, the people allow them to happen. In Ogun State, Amosun, an APC governor, who is going for Senate, sponsored a candidate of another party. Amosun ran under APC, but went to campaign ground of the APC governorship candidate and allegedly instructed that the banners of the APC candidate be removed. All these are laughable and show the extent our people can go in their desperation for power. How do you see the losses by some political heavy weights? The way people see them at national level may be different from what happens in their states or constituencies. Some people enjoy popularity due to sycophancy. In Lagos, anybody Bola Tinubu supports will win. That those political bigwigs lost in their constituencies or senatorial districts is a reflection of the situation in their localities. People in their constituencies know them. Except they can prove there was rigging, the result was a reflection of the situation there. Many have lost touch with their people. Some took actions not sanctioned by their people. What do you think President Buhari should do in the next four years? He should take the restructuring of the economy seriously. He should take the issue of security seriously. We need a stable economy. He should address the issues of herdsmen and Boko Haram. He should offer appointments to people from every part of the country. No ethnic group should be neglected. He should address the issue of power. He should run an all-inclusive administration in his second term. S’South and S’East did not vote for him because they see him as nepotic. He should beware of the cabals around him.