Lagos – The Lagos State gubernatorial candidate of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), Chief Owolabi Salis, has rejected the result of the governorship poll held on Saturday, March 9, 2019, saying it was fraudulent. Salis made this allegation on Monday at a press briefing held at his residence in Gbagada area of Lagos. While briefing journalists, the AD gubernatorial candidate said: “I am not accepting the result of the election because it is not real and the whole exercise is a complete fraud. “I do not believe that the candidate declared winner actually won in a free and fair election. There were so many corruption and atrocities on the election day and people were denied their right to vote for candidates of their choice. “All Lagosians have rights to their votes and when they were denied these rights, there is no way their votes will count.” Salis further added that vote-buying, violence and rigging from the opposition parties marred the credibility of the March 9 poll in Lagos. According to him, voters were intimidated from exercising their right, and there were multiple voting from members of the opposition party while some of our members were threatened. “In a situation when you threatened people not to come out to vote in their community, there will definitely be a low turn-out in the election and that is why you can’t force people to accept that the election is free and fair. The gubernatorial candidate also said he is heading to court to challenge the result of the election because there were so many irregularities during the exercise. “At a particular poll, seventeen members of my family voted and at the end, when the vote was being counted, only four votes were counted for our party, Alliance for Democracy (AD). “This is not an election and I reject the result in its entirety. “I also want to clear the air on the rumour flying around that I collected money from the opposition, it is only an insinuation and it’s all false.” Speaking on the performance of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Salis said the electoral body did not meet people’s expectation. “From what happened last Saturday, it is my opinion that INEC is not reliable. There were reports that some of them were collecting money from politicians at the polling booth. “They don’t know that their action is not right, they were only throwing away the future of the country and it has to stop if we want the country to move forward.” “I pray that God will deliver Lagosians from the hand of oppressors because they were tired of some individual being in-charge of their commonwealth,” he said.