ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari in a surprise broadcast on social media on Wednesday, said he would not encourage Nigerians to be complacent and fail to exercise their civic duties on Saturday, when the gubernatorial and state Houses of Assembly elections will hold. He said even though the presidential and National Assembly elections were over, it behooves the electorate to equally turn out en masse and vote for governors and legislators of their choice,  as they were the ones who can deliver democratic dividends at the grassroots levels. According to Buhari, he regrets the fact that lives were lost during the presidential polls, but hopefully such will not repeat itself. He made the broadcast against the backdrop of proposed deployment of security personnel from the federal government to states where electoral malpractices, thuggery and other social vices were more prone, especially states like Bayelsa, Rivers amongst others. His words, “The second and final phase of the 2019 general elections comes up on Saturday, March 9, with Nigerians voting for governors and members of Houses of Assembly in the states. “Let me once again extend my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives or sustained injuries as a result of accidents or criminal violence during the elections. “The onus is once again on qualified people to turn out in large numbers to exercise their civic rights. “With the presidential poll behind us, let us not become complacent, and fail to vote in the gubernatorial poll. “The forthcoming elections are as important for good governance as that of the presidency and the National Assembly. “Indeed, governance at the state level is closer to us, and should touch our lives more directly. That is why it is vital for us to participate in the choice of who governs us at the state levels. “I, therefore, urge you to troop out massively on Saturday to elect your governors and state lawmakers,” he stated. Buhari however took the opportunity to campaign for gubernatorial candidates under the auspices of the All Progressives Congress(APC) saying they represent the best crop of leaders with progressives’ ideologies. He said,”As a member of the All Progressives Congress, I recommend those standing on the platform of the party to you, as we are guided by progressive ideals, and we will not disappoint you. “Equally, I urge you to comport yourself properly, as you turn out for the election. “Avoid all deviant behaviours like ballot stuffing, ballot snatching, and any other action that does not conform with best electoral practices.” The president gave assurance that security agencies will be on hand to protect voters, and ensure that the process is not undermined in anyway.”