Emmanuel Badejo, Chioma Umeha, Nkasiobi Oluikpe Lagos – Emotions flowed freely Thursday morning when a father of one of the children who died in the Lagos collapsed building wept uncontrollably at the scene of the incident as he recalled how his son, Fawad, made him pray for him before he left for school. The middle-aged father, Abudulfatah Ayoola, who lives close to the scene, while speaking with newsmen, narrated how his son had a premonition of evil lurking ahead as he was getting ready to leave for school on the fateful day. While giving a graphic description of the last communication he had with his son on Wednesday, Ayoola, who broke down in tears, said that he once contemplated enrolling his son in another school but changed his mind. He said: “He woke up late for school. After taking his breakfast, he requested for money but I told him there was no need for money since he had his lunch with him. “Then he said, ‘daddy, pray for me before I go’, and I did exactly as he requested. He walked to school, which is just a few metres from the house. “I don’t think I can sleep tonight. My late son and I did almost everything together; we ate together, prayed together, spent time discussing. I was introducing him to life because he was my eldest child. “I visited Kings’ College not too long ago and liked the academic atmosphere, and I was assured that an interview date would be communicated to me soon, but now I can’t take him there anymore because Fawad is gone. God gives and takes, we cannot question Him. “All I need to do now is pray for him, console the mother. I know of a family who lost four of their children in the building. What will be their fate? Praise be to Allah for everything.” At least 27 people died on Wednesday where up to 100 children were among those feared trapped after a three-storey building housing Ohen Nursery and Primary School collapsed on No. 36 Massey Street, Ita Faji area of Lagos Island. Meanwhile, the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital has released 41 names of survivors of the building collapse. Adeshina Tiamiyu, General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), said there was no casualty left under the debris of the collapsed building on No. 63 Massey Street, Ita-Faaji area of Lagos Island. “We stopped work at 3:00 a.m. after recovering the lifeless body of a male and we are sure there is no casualty left under the debris,” said Tiamiyu. Tiamiyu, speaking at the site of the collapsed building on Thursday morning, said: “I have seen the picture of the building before it collapsed and I can confirm to you that the floor that housed the school cannot accommodate up to 100 pupils.” But residents of the area disagreed with LASEMA on the conclusion of rescue operation. The residents, who were enraged by the claim, alleged that there were still casualties trapped in the debris of the collapsed building. In the meantime, some students of a private school protested at the scene of the collapsed building on Lagos Island, carrying placards which called on the government to save them from quack developers. Some of their placards read: ‘RIP’, ‘Save Our Souls…from Quack Developers’, ‘Qatob Group of Schools commiserates with departed souls’. Hospitals Seek Blood Donations For Survivors Hospitals in Lagos on Thursday called for urgent voluntary blood donations from the public to save the lives of some of the pupils affected in the collapsed school building who are now on treatment. A visit on Thursday by Daily Independent to the hospitals showed that though there was normalcy at the various hospitals as many of the patients have been stabilised, some healthcare givers reliably said that there is urgent need for voluntary blood donations for them. From Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), General Hospital Lagos, Island Maternity, and Gbagada General Hospital, it was noticeable that only a few relations and well-wishers were seen moving in and out of the hospitals. It would be recalled that hundreds of parents and guardians on Wednesday besieged the premises of the hospitals in search of their children. A reliable source at the hospitals further told Daily Independent that victims who are on admission have been referred to different hospitals depending on the level and nature of their injuries. The source also disclosed that about 18 of the patients are currently receiving care at the General Hospital, Lagos, 16 in the hospital wards and two in the state Emergency Unit of the hospital. Out of the patients on admission, 10 are males, while eight of them are females. “Out of the total number of four patients at Gbagada Hospital, two are males and two female, two of them have fractures while the other two have problems with their soft tissues,” the source said. The hospital source also hinted that some of the patients will be undergoing surgery today. Giving an update on the number of new patients, Dr. Ismail Ganikale, Medical Director, General Hospital, Lagos, said no new casualty of the school building collapse had been brought to the hospital. Ganikale said the management had assembled the medical team and was doing some mop up in order to get the number of casualties. “No new casualty has been brought in and we are doing the best we can to mop up.” Also, a visit to Gbagada General Hospital shows only four patients were currently on admission. A reliable source said the patients had been stabilised and were responding to treatment. Similarly, Dr. Jide Idris, the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, said efforts are being made to ensure patients received the best of care. “I cannot give you a specific number of patients now because I don’t want to give the wrong figures. We are still collating. Our teams of medical personnel are on ground. Services are free. We will give an update later,” he said. Commenting, Dr. Saliu Oseni, the Chairman, Lagos chapter of NMA, said their members have been on ground monitoring the situation. “So far from what we gathered, the last set of patients that were brought to Lagos General Hospital came in last night (Wednesday) and we are yet to receive new patients as at this morning (Thursday). “Most of the patients came in through General Hospital and Massey Children Hospital from where they were referred to other hospitals, including Lagos State University Teaching Hospital; Mainland, Yaba. “We are aware there is a patient at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba currently.”