ABEOKUTA – Otunba Gbenga Daniel, former Governor of Ogun State and Deputy Director General of Atiku Campaign Organisation, South, has quit partisan politics. This is contained in a letter he sent to Prince Uche Secondus, the People’s Democratic Party National Chairman, on Thursday and sighted by our correspondent on Saturday. His decision was coming in less than three weeks after his friend, Atiku Abubakar, lost presidential election to the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari. The letter reads: “This is to inform you of my intention to resign from active and partisan politics with effect from today, the 14th day of March, 2019. “My decision in this regard is entirely personal to me and having served in various capacities, including as Governor of Ogun State, I have resolved to immerse myself in some other vocations and take on some new challenges. “My decision to quit partisan politics notwithstanding, I have decided to rejuvenate my charity based organisation, the Gateway Front Foundation (GFF) which will literally continue to dispense succor to our people in need, address and assist in the areas of some of their health challenges; I also plan on resuscitation of the non-partisan Political Leadership Academy (POLA) which I established some years ago as a platform of political education to our citizens.” Chronicling his journey in politics, Daniel said: “He joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State on Sunday, September 9, 2001 at an event which was described as one of the most ceremonial political rallies in our recent political history in the South Western part of Nigeria. “We rose from that rally to create a highly robust and effective political campaign machinery which resulted in an electoral victory for the Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun State in 2003; this movement and vibration affected the politics of the region positively with a victory in five (5) states of the South West.” Daniel stressed: “I served as Governor of Ogun State for eight years and our administration till today remains a point of reference in terms of physical, social, economic, educational and human capital development since the state was created in 1976”. “Notwithstanding these widely acclaimed achievements, however, our party, the Peoples Democratic Party, ran into troubled waters towards the end of our administration (about the year 2009), which led to the sad loss in the election of 2011, and regrettably 10 years after, the party has been unable to resolve those internal disputes and challenges. He added: “The PDP in Ogun State was confronted with a very difficult situation in matter of choice. Whereas the national leadership of our party recognised one candidate for the 2019 election, by court pronouncements, another candidate and in compliance with those court orders, which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recognised was on the INEC list. “The candidates recognised by INEC were not acceptable to the national leadership of the party. Our situation was then compounded because the candidate which the court and INEC recognised and accepted as valid has also been expelled by the party. This was the dilemma we found ourselves as we approached the March 9, 2019 Governorship and State House of Assembly elections. “Going forward, we have responded to the yearnings of our people and joined others in emplacing an administration that we believe will better serve the interests of our people than what currently exists. The rest they say is now history. “I must say that looking back, I do not have any regrets over that patriotic choice and decision, especially as several of our citizens, leaders and stakeholders in the state and outside have commended that singular action. “Many stakeholders within and outside Ogun State feel fulfilled, excited and grateful about our decision to join others in putting a stop to a regime that was believed to be against the collective and general welfare of our people.”