The National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) has commended and congratulated the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) over a recent accreditation and conferment of ISO/IC 17021 by the National Accreditation Board of India (NABCB). In a letter dated February 28, 2019 to the Director General of SON, Mr. Osita Aboloma, signed by Dr. Boniface Aniebonam, NAGAFF Founder and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, stated  that the conferment of ISO/IC 17021 on the Organisation by the National Accreditation Board of India (NABCB), according to “our findings,  this is an international accreditation for your Management Systems Certification, which is a confirmation of its competence, integrity, and impartiality as a service provider.” “This international recognition for SON under your leadership did not come to us as a surprise, as the Organisation has been upwardly mobile and stakeholders- driven since you assumed office. “Like they say, a golden fish has no hiding place.” The exploits of SON under Aboloma’s leadership according to NAGAFF has given confidence that services offered by SON would naturally meet clients’ requirements. “We are happy to note that the accreditation has brought SON at par with its counterparts in Europe, America, Asia, and some African countries. “We at NAGAFF are very pleased to be associated with the success story of SON and pledge our continued support to you and your management to achieve greater heights for the benefit of our people and the glory of our dear country.  We know that SONCAP rule of engagement means safety to life of all Nigerians and the entire world.  We, therefore urge you and the management team to keep the flag flying.” “We are also confident that this recognition will serve as a challenge for SON to aim higher and afford you an opportunity to leave indelible marks in the annals of Nigerian history. This letter of appreciation of hard work and fight against corruption in our ports is being forwarded to Mr. President for his information and acknowledgement,” Aniebonam enthused.