LAGOS – Comrade Godfrey Abengowe, the founder and coordinator of Crusaders for Peace and Unity in Nigeria (C-PUN) a non-governmental organization, has explained that the peaceful atmosphere in Abia State and the well-coordinated security measures Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has put in place are the key factors motivating his organization to mobilize massively for the second term aspiration of the Abia state Governor. Abengowe, spoke recently in Lagos after returning from a month long sensitisation campaign across Abia State where his organization distributed flyers, pamphlets and CDs to millions of Abians in various local government areas. He said citizens were impressed by the four-track Audio CD as it concisely captured the details of the governor’s achievement. According to Abengowe, most people at the hinterlands confessed that through the jingle they were enlightened on the good job Governor Ikpeazu has been doing for Abia State. Other aspects of the one month sensitisation programme include village rallies for the governor, house to house sensitization visits and distribution of information materials in towns and urban centres. Also speaking on the reason for supporting the Abia Governor, Bar, Comfort Nse Williams, C-PUN Secretary explained that Ikpeazu brought tremendous development to Abia state. In her words: “the Governor has empowered more youths, fixed more roads, developed farm settlement and all citizens of Abia state, adding that the people of the state are now enjoying peace and unity which is one of the reasons the NGO is clamouring for his return to continue the good work.” Elder Okechukwu Oyenma, Ikpeazu and chapter coordinator, C-PUN, Abia State, Gov Ikpeazu is like a messiah. “In fact, he has displayed great dexterity and equity in governance, and has kept virtually all his campaign promises despite all challenges” he stressed. The Publicity and Organizing Secretary of C-PUN, Amb Omoniyi Olushola Lomitutu believes Gov. Ikpeazu has worked well in the last four years to bring peace and rapid development in Abia State now compared to what happened before his tenure. “He is really working hard to make Abia a mega city”. “We in Crusaders for Peace and Unity of Nigeria have seen his impactful activities in the state works and we have seen that he is working out his vision and mission; that is why we are eager to work hard and push for his return.” ‘’To give law abiding citizens and non-indigenes residing, especially in Delta Central, the “Lagos Treatment” by Identifying and violently stopping them from voting and destroying electoral materials where voting has actually taken place, just as they shamelessly did in Okota in Lagos state, during the February 23, 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections ‘’To ensure that they attack the electoral process to disrupt the activities of INEC officials with the deliberate intention to postpone the State’s election to enable them perfect their rigging arrangements in favour of the APC candidates by deploying more security on the rescheduled date. But in a swift reaction, the APC in Delta State described the PDP as suffering from political migraine over what it described as PDP’s fear of impending and imminent loss of power in Delta State. In a statement by Barr Ogheneluemu Sylvester Imonina, State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress in Delta State,