Abuja – Candidates from Imo State were conspicuously missing at Thursday’s presentation of certificates of return by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to winners in the National Assembly polls. Conspicuously missing was Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State who the commission had earlier dropped from the list of senators-elect in its website. Also missing from Imo was Benjamin Uwajumogu, who was earlier reported to have emerged from Imo North Senatorial District on the platform of the APC. A director of the commission, who did not want to be named, however, disclosed that Uwajumogu’s ‘victory’ had some issues which the commission would want to address. Other candidates from federal constituencies in Imo North who did not make the roll call included Chike Okafor and Accord Party candidate from the same zone, Hon. Emeka Nwajiuba. Governor Okorocha had, in an interview, claimed that Okigwe South was won by candidate of Action Alliance, Emenike. He too was not on the roll call. The presentation, which was marred by unusual rowdiness as supporters of politicians literally ran over security operatives, also saw many in attendance complaining bitterly about missing items such as phones, money, and other valuables. Earlier, while addressing the Senators elect, INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, had appealed to the elected representatives to immediately commence work on needed legal framework for the 2023 general election, noting that the time left was short. The commission, he said, was not going to waste time drawing up a solid roadmap that will address noticeable lapses in the 2019 general elections and solicited expedited action on the part of the Senate. “As a matter of urgency, the commission will begin work on post 2019 elections review and roadmap to 2023. “There is a lot of work but very little time available. As a process governed by law, the success of election in Nigeria depends to a large extent on the electoral legal framework and most importantly in ensuring adherence to the law. “I want to assure you that we will continue to work with the National Assembly to review and strength our electoral law. “But I want to appeal to the Senators-elect to please start work early and conclude work on electoral framework in good time, well ahead of the 2023 general elections. “The tendency to delay electoral reform, particularly the review of electoral framework until it is too close to the elections, leave the commission with little time to develop processes, including regulations and guidelines, make required consultations with stakeholders, and embark on effective voter education, including sensitisation, training of staff and organising deployment for the elections. “I am glad that among the senators-elect are senators that we have worked very closely with and some of them have taken the initiative or even sponsored private member bills to advance the cause of electoral reform.”