Lagos – The delegation of Senior National Team of Egypt, The Pharaohs, will arrive in Nigeria on Sunday, March 24 aboard a chartered aircraft, for the international friendly with the Super Eagles. Officials of both the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and the Egyptian Football Association (EFA) have confirmed to thenff.com that the team would fly into the Asaba Airport direct from Niamey, Niger Republic – where they are due to play that country’s senior team on the final day of qualifying campaign for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). The Pharaohs, like the Super Eagles, have qualified for the finals taking place June 21 to July 19 ahead of the final day of qualifiers, even before Egypt was handed the hosting right for the championship. Seychelles’ Pirates are the Eagles’ opponents for the final day of the campaign, on Friday, March 22, before both former AFCON winners clash at the Stephen Keshi Stadium four days later. Meanwhile, Nigeria’s U23 squad will take on Libya in the first leg, first round of the 3rd Africa U23 Cup of Nations qualifying series at the Bengerdan Stadium in Bengerdan, Tunisia on Wednesday, March 20. An official of the Libya Football Federation (LFF) told thenff.com on Tuesday that the Bengerdan Stadium has an artificial turf and that the match will start at 3pm Tunisia time. The delegation of Nigeria’s U23 squad will land at the Djerba International Airport, which is 20 minutes’ drive to the town of Bengerdan. Nigeria is the only African country to have won gold, silver and bronze medals of the Men’s Olympic Football Tournament. Gold was the harvest at the Centennial Games in Atlanta, USA, and silver came in Beijing, China in 2008. The bronze medal won by the Olympic Eagles at the Games in Brazil in 2016 was the only medal won by the entire Team Nigeria at the fiesta. The Olympic Eagles are also the defending champions of the Africa U23 Cup of Nations. Africa’s flag-bearers in the Men’s Olympic Football Tournament of Tokyo 2020 will emerge during the 3rd Africa U23 Cup of Nations to hold in Egypt in November this year.