Temidayo Akinsuyi, Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – Ahead of the rescheduled governorship and state House of Assemblies’ elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of militarising the Niger Delta in order to fight its governors. Warning against the militarisation of its strongholds, the party specifically noted the alleged illegal occupation and provocative siege to its states in the South-South, namely Bayelsa, Rivers, Delta, Akwa-Ibom, and Cross River by the military ahead of the March 9 elections. The party, however, warned that any further provocation would be a clear recipe for crisis. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, the PDP spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “This illegal operation is to further militarise the South-South zone, use soldiers to suppress voters, and re-enact the massive rigging of polls for the All Progressives Congress (APC), as was done in the widely discredited February 23 presidential election. “However, the PDP warns, in very unequivocal terms, that those who sow the wind should also be ready to reap the whirlwind. “It is clear that after using military to unleash violence, alter results, and muscle out fabricated 25 percent ballot for President Muhammadu Buhari across the South-South states and other PDP strongholds, the APC now wants to use the military to fight our governors, suppress our members, and forcefully take over our states. “Nigerians already know how APC leaders from the South-South are going around boasting that the military will use violence to give them governorship election triumph, the same way it did during the presidential election, where innocent Nigerians were brutalised and murdered. “Nigerians are witnesses to how 13 persons were murdered in Akuku-Toru Local Government (Area) in Rivers State, in addition to those killed in Ahoada East, Ahoada West, and Emohua Local Government Areas during the presidential election.” Speaking further, Ologbondiyan alleged that the Minister of Transport and the Director General of the Buhari Campaign Organisation, Rotimi Amaechi, used soldiers to hold an INEC official hostage, changed the election results, and allocated fabricated figures for President Buhari. The party spokesman further alleged that in Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio used soldiers to suppress and harass the people, in spite of assurances by INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, that the military would not be involved in elections. He said: “In Bayelsa State, soldiers were freely used against the people. In the process, the photographer to the state governor was murdered. The Deputy Commissioner of Police in the state was even kidnapped. “In Brass East Senatorial District of the state, it was a war situation as the military took over the electoral process and even declared winners. “Soldiers were deployed to the remotest villages where the voters were suppressed and results altered in favour of President Buhari. “Now that it is clear to all that the 2019 election is not between the PDP and the APC, but a war between the state apparatus of power and the PDP, the PDP cannot continue to fold its hands in the face of this killings and suppression of voters by the APC. “On this note, the PDP, ahead of the March 9 elections, cautions the APC and its compromised security agents to note that the people of the Niger Delta are already hurting over the killings of their compatriots during the February 23 election and any further provocation will be a clear recipe for crisis.” The party, which pointed out that it was committed to peaceful election, cautioned that nobody had a monopoly of show of strength. “The people of the Niger Delta are peace loving, but have never, in the history of our nation, allowed themselves to be suppressed or vanquished by oppressive forces. “It is incontrovertible that the South-South is a stronghold of the PDP and the people are fully mobilised for the March 9 election. “Our members and supporters are in every polling unit, every collation centre, all exit and entry points in the area, and will use all legitimate means available in a democracy to defend themselves and their votes,” the party said. Ologbondiyan said any person who yielded him or herself as a tool in the hands of evil should be ready to face the legitimate anger of the people. “Moreover, the PDP cautions the APC to be mindful of the fact that the Niger Delta region is the mainstay of our national economy and that any assault on the zone is capable of spelling doom for our nation. “The PDP calls the attention of the world to the devious devices of the APC against the South-South as such constitutes a huge threat to our corporate existence as a nation,” he added. Reacting to the statement by the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, that the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, was not electable, Ologbondiyan said it was Oshiomhole that was not electable, adding that nobody took Oshiomhole seriously. According to Ologbondiyan, “Adams also is not electable. Is it not strange that a sitting national chairman woefully failed to deliver his state. “He got 100 percent votes in his ward, is that not worrisome that he rigged the election? Nobody takes Adams seriously.” Nigeria Mournful Over Stolen Mandate— PDP Meanwhile, the PDP on Thursday said the nation had been in a mournful state since the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as winner of last Saturday’s presidential election. The situation, according to the party, was a clear indication that the election was manipulated in favour of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). According to the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), President Buhari won his re-election bid by garnering 15,191,847 votes to defeat his closest rival, Atiku Abubakar of the PDP, who polled 11,262,978. Atiku, who refused to congratulate President Buhari, had already rejected the result and vowed to challenge it in court. Speaking with Daily Independent, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP’s National Publicity Secretary and Director of Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), said Nigerians were not celebrating President Buhari’s victory because they were tired of his government and had expressed that through their votes on February 23. He, however, said the Federal Government deployed “stronger powers” to ensure that the votes of Nigerians never counted. That, according to him, accounted for why the country had been in a mournful state since the declaration. He said: “Nigerians are not celebrating because the election that produced President Buhari was a sham, fraught with all manners of discrepancies. “Despite the postponement by INEC, which was condemned by all, Nigerians were still resolute and expressed their wish through the ballot box nationwide. “Their wish was to vote out President Muhammadu Buhari and usher in a new government led by the PDP and our presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. “But stronger powers were deployed to ensure that the votes of Nigerians did not count. That is why the mood of the nation since the declaration has been mournful.” Ologbondiyan also said that the PDP was resolute in its desire to retrieve its stolen mandate by challenging the outcome of the election in court. “The PDP and our presidential candidate have taken a decision to use every legitimate means known to our laws to seek the retrieval of our stolen mandate. On that we stand. There is no going back,” he said. Also speaking with Daily Independent, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of Transport, said the election that produced President Buhari was criminally manipulated. Babatope, a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the PDP, said it was alarming how states like Borno and Yobe recorded huge votes for the APC despite the troubles by insurgents in the region. He said: “That election was criminally manipulated. We are fighting a war; terrorists are bombing Borno, Yobe, and some parts of the North-East. “Against all demographic factors, these people announced results with over one million voters in these areas. “Yet, they admitted that on national television that there was bomb blast in Yobe. So, where did they get all these figures they recorded? Anyway, I wish Nigerians well.” However, Prince Tony Momoh, a former Minister of Information and one of the national leaders of the APC, said the PDP lied by claiming that Nigerians were not rejoicing over President Buhari’s re-election. Momoh said the euphoria generated by President Buhari’s re-election was the highest he had seen in the history of presidential elections in the country. According to him, “Whoever said that must have a problem with his memory because the euphoria now is massive compared to how it was in 2015. “I have never seen so much celebration in the history of Nigeria’s elections and I have witnessed a lot of them. “Everywhere in Nigeria right now, people are celebrating. How can anybody say the euphoria now is low when compared to how it was in 2015?” “In any case, we have a state by state scenario when you have events being acted out. “We have never had so much spread by opposition in the history of Nigeria. “Buhari won in all the traditional areas. He won in the North-West; he won in the North-East, and I think he won in the North-Central. “In 35 states of Nigeria, he has 25 percent. He also has more than 25 percent in Abuja. “The difference between his total votes and Atiku’s votes is almost 4 million. So, how can there be better result or spread than we have now? “In 2011, in the whole of the South-South and South-East, he did not have up to 10 percent except in Edo State. He didn’t even have up to 25 percent in Edo State. “Now, he had 25 percent in all the states of the federation in Nigeria, including the FCT. “So, why won’t there be much celebration? Those saying Nigerians are not celebrating his victory like they did in 2015 are not saying the truth.”