Professor Tunde Adeniran, a former Minister of Education and chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on the conduct of the 2019 general elections, his agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari and other issues of interest. Excerpts: Do you think the 2019 elections conducted by INEC is an improvement on the 2015 elections or a decline? Well, it varies in different places. There were some places where there is an improvement and there were some places where a lot needs to be done. In terms of preparations, one could say INEC prepared well and I give them some credit for the level of preparations in spite of the initial hitches.  However, the readiness of the Nigerian people for the elections leaves much to be desired.  There are lots of orientations and enlightenment that needs to be done especially towards future elections.  That is my summary of the 2015 elections. Before the elections, the SDP came out with lots of hopes, priding itself as the Third Force.  However, the party performed woefully nationwide. What do you think went wrong? What happened was that there was a lot of hope invested in the SDP. The SDP was actually the centre of the Third Force. There are some other political groups that were to work with the SDP. Of course, the SDP took off very well but again, we have some individuals and groups that were also used to make sure that we do not succeed as the Third Force.  In other words, that hope was aborted and our efforts were frustrated.  There were fifth columnists all over the place. A lot of them didn’t believe in the mission and vision of the SDP as the third force.  That was why you saw the SDP in a depressing situation and it was unable to meet the expectations of Nigerians as the third force. When you look right and see that this political party will not meet the aspirations of Nigerians and you look left and realise that this other political party is not what Nigerians are looking for, then the SDP is the answer. But unfortunately, the SDP was infiltrated by forces that got it distracted from its goals. However, we are not giving up on the core values of the party. We want to ensure that by the grace of God, we rise until we triumph eventually. Now that he has been reelected, what are your agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari? The agenda is so clear. There are certain things that we believe in in the SDP which we are also proposing to the President for implementation.  The number one thing is the security in the land, the security of lives and properties; and also a secure atmosphere so that people can go about their normal businesses without fear of intimidation or harassment. The issue of Boko Haram is there, the rampage by herdsmen is also there and of course, kidnappers, armed robbers and so forth. Security is very important and I believe the President will give it more attention than ever before. Number two, the issue of reorganising the nation, which we call restructuring of the nation. To make sure that democracy is meaningful and people can actualise their potentials. In this regard, it is something that has to be done at different levels. Restructuring is not just for the President alone. The national assembly has a role to play. The governors also have roles to play and of course, the people themselves, down to the local level.  It is ridiculous when you hear from governors talking about restructuring without they themselves doing the restructuring that is within their powers to do. Some of them usurp the responsibilities of the local governments.  They can start restructuring by making sure that governors of some states like Ebonyi, Ekiti, Osun, Kwara, Yobe and others should not be paying their workers the same salaries that states like Lagos, Kano and Rivers are earning.  That is part of the restructuring we are talking about. And you do not have to wait for the President to do these things.  There are also so many areas. The exclusive list will have to be revisited. The exclusive list and concurrent list will all have to be looked into and the National Assembly will have to do something in that regards and also the state houses of assemblies generally. What about the economy? Of course, when you move up from the issue of security and restructuring, then you come to the economy. The President and the federal government, as well as the state governments will really have to do something about the economy. Also, they must do something urgent about unemployment and poverty in the land. These two need to be urgently addressed. Jobs will have to be created and this will not only be done at the national level, it has to be created at the state levels as well at the local government levels.  They will perform when they are given the opportunity to do what they are supposed to do. When we move up from there, we come to the social services and social welfare, which starts with education. Education is very key. Unless and until there is opportunity for every Nigerian to be educated, we will continue to be in trouble. We will be breeding people who will grow up to be thugs, beggars, armed robbers and so on.  By education, I mean sound and functional education. We don’t want people who go through the schools and will not be able to acquire sufficient knowledge to be useful to themselves and the society.  So, in that order, I will rank the responsibilities before President Buhari in that way. And of course, he has to continue to fight corruption in a way that is widespread and across board; so that there will be no sacred cows at all.  Everybody, irrespective of political party or tribe will be subject to the EFCC and other organs that are charged with making sure that the system is sanitised . He should purge the country of bad eggs that are giving Nigeria a bad name and are creating underdevelopment for us because the resources meant for developing the country are being diverted in a rather unpatriotic and wicked way. What is your message to Alhaji  Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate? If I am in a position to advise him, my advice to him will be ‘seek the face of God and let the Holy Spirit direct him on what to do. He should reflect on the issue and take it to God in prayer. Then he should allow the Holy Spirit direct him on what to do’.