SAPELE – Hon. Peresine Watchman, the National President/Co-ordinator, Atiku Abubakar 2019 Media Vanguard, Wednesday, asserted that the PDP in Delta State was ready to crumble the APC rigging machine to emerge victorious at the gubernatorial and state assembly polls coming up on Saturday, March 9, 2019 because Delta State since democracy started in Nigeria in 1999, had been one of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) strongest base. Watchman said that Delta South and Delta North Senatorial Districts, respectively, had been massively voting for the Peoples Democratic Party with 80% to 85% votes, whilst the remaining 15% to 20% registered voters were members of the opposition parties and their apologists. “This is an obvious truth as people in these two Senatorial Districts are totally committed and loyal to the Peoples Democratic Party,” he said. Hon. Watchman lamented that the PDP lost the Delta Central Senatorial Seat to the then strongest opposition party, Labour Party (LP) in Delta Central Senatorial District in 2011.  The PDP also lost the Delta Central Senatorial Seat to the All Progressive Congress (APC) at the appeal court in 2015 after winning the election at the polls. “The results of the February 23, 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections showed that the APC is gradually gaining ground in Delta Central Senatorial District, as the PDP again lost the Delta Central Senatorial seat to the APC at the polls,” he added. However Watchman posited that it was evidently clear that the Peoples Democratic Party was still in charge of Delta Central politics as it won six LGAs out of the eight LGAs that make up Delta Central in the presidential election. He added that it was very important for the public to note that there is a zoning arrangement among the three Senatorial Districts in the state favours Okowa’s second tenure, “the reason we are all clamouring for his re-election.” The PDP’s stalwart appealed to the electorate in Delta Central and Delta South to understand and support the Okowa’s second tenure mandate so that they can enjoy more dividends of democracy. While speaking on the intrigues and permutations of 2019 elections, Hon. Watchman said, “Under democracy one party always devotes its chief energies to trying to prove that the other party is unfit to rule and both commonly succeed, and are right. “June 2018, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, threatened that he would use all means, including Federal might to remove His Excellency, Senator (Dr.) Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa, the Executive Governor of Delta State from office in 2019. This unguided statement of Oshiomhole was condemned by different ethnic groups in Delta State, including Association of Anioma Bishops led by Bishop Prayer Okoh in July 3, 2018. “Adams Oshiomhole was told by Deltans that Delta State is not Ekiti State or Osun State, where they successfully rigged the election in favour of the APC. “Deltans also reminded him that Delta State is a PDP State, and his conspiracy with the INEC and the military to work in favour of the APC governorship candidate would meet a brick wall.” He added, “Delta State PDP conducted very transparent, peaceful, free and fair primary elections in 2018, while the All Progressive Congress primary elections were marred with violence, killings, snatching of electoral materials as well as conducting of parallel primaries. APC primaries opened the eyes of Deltans that the APC is a party associated with violent characters. “That was why on the eve to the postponed Presidential and National Assembly elections, APC members started attacking members of the Peoples Democratic Party in some parts of Delta Central and Warri, where an SA to the Governor of Delta State was killed, amongst others.”