mede of Higher Power Ministry, Benin City, said: “President Muhammadu Buhari should be aware that majority of Nigerians are not happy with the way he administered the country in the last four years, especially in the area of security and his lopsided appointment he made. “His supporters may be pretending that all is well, whereas nothing is working in Nigeria as a country. If the president fails to change the situation in his second tenure, he should expect to see the other side of Nigeria and Nigerians. “All Nigerians are waiting to see how he is going to handle the issue of herdsmen and Boko Haram. The economy is secondary in the present situation in Nigeria because nobody can be talking about economy, good roads, health care and education where there is no security of lives and property. “The president should see himself this time around as the president of Nigeria and not the president of a section because he got his votes in all parts of the country. If he continues to rule the country the way he did in his first four years, he will see the other side of Nigerians because no particular section owned Nigeria more than the other.” Buhari Should Focus On Economy, Education, Security – Businessman Uzoma Okebalaku, an Enugu businessman, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to focus his attention on the economy, education and security in his second tenure. On the economy, Okebalaku said the President should use his second term to truly diversify the economy and make sure it no longer depends on oil revenue alone. He suggested that more investments should be made in agriculture and solid minerals to transform the country from a mono-product economy to a resource driven economy. He equally suggested that more investments should be made in the education sector in Nigeria as education remains the bedrock of development. On security, Okebalaku said there was need to re-strategise in the fight against insurgency in the North East and other security challenges facing the country. Buhari Should Run All-Inclusive Government – Activist Prince Donatus Orjika, State Social Secretary of Anambra State Association of Town Unions (ASATU) Youth Wing, and South East, Coordinator, Ethics and Values, said that President Buhari should run an all-inclusive government, a sort of Government of National Unity (GNU) because there had never been a time in the history of Nigeria that the country is so divided. He also asked the President to look into the 2014 National Conference report and see ways to use it to promote national unity and move the country to the next level. Orjika added that Buhari needs to re-brand Nigeria before the international community. He added: “He should strengthen institutions of democracy and try to eliminate issues like nepotism, religious bigotry, extremism and bridge the gap between the rich and the poor.” He also said that restructuring is an issue that the President should look into so that he doesn’t continue to “pour new wine in old wine skin”, stressing, “He needs to restructure the polity and make Nigeria a competitive nation.” ‘Buhari Should Carry All Sections Of The Country Along’ Dr. Chkwubechukwu Ijeoma, coordinator of a pro-Buhari group, also advised Buhari to run all-inclusive government. He reminded him that he does not belong to anybody, but for everybody, especially now that his party has majority of members in the National Assembly and passing of bills won’t be difficult. Ijeoma said: “He should carry all sections of the country along because according to him “We all voted for him. He should also correct the past mistakes and fulfill all promises.” Activist Urges Buhari To Unify Nigeria, Improve Economy, Focus On Infrastructure Dr. Welson Ekiyor, a social activist and Executive Directo, Campaign for Development and Democracy in Bayelsa (CDDB), has advised President Buhari to focus on the country’s unity, economy and infrastructure in the next four years of his administration. He stated this in a chat with our correspondent in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, while speaking on what should constitute the President’s policy thrust in his second term in the next four years. Ekiyor argued that Buhari’s anti-graft tactics were not healthy for the economy, stressing that many investors were divesting from the country because of the method of the fight against corruption. He said: “The first thing President Buhari needs to do now is to unify the country. The country is broken. He needs to do something about the unity of the country. “That should be his first agenda; bring the country together. When you look at the way the elections went, you will know that the country is broken. Let him   