TOMI FALADE, LUKMON AKINTOLA, IFEOMA ONONYE, And OYINKAN SOMORIN LAGOS – The outcome of every election is determined by the class of people that participate in the exercise. In most cases, apart from the accredited electorate, other groups that are found at polling booths probably for extraneous missions also include criminals, rascals and political thugs. As such, one of the primary duties of a constituted electoral commission, which seems to be failing in Nigeria’s electoral system, is the aspect of proactive education for the electorate on how to perform their civic duty. But in a situation where violence has become an active variable in any election, experts say it is increasingly meaningless to fault those who deliberately refuse to vote. Many people thought that with the postponement of presidential and national assembly elections penultimate Saturday to last Saturday, the electoral climate would be calmer. Unfortunately, Nigeria suffered tragic losses which some analysts described as meaningless, wasteful and cowardly. Despite the earlier threat of President Muhammadu Buhari that whoever snatches ballot box does it at his own peril, ballot boxes were snatched in some areas. Personal properties were destroyed and in some places, electoral materials were set ablaze. To worsen the situation, several lives were lost to the last election. One of such touching deaths was the outright murder of the 19-year-old Daniel Usman, a student of Kogi State University, who was reportedly shot dead while voting for the first time. Hours before his death, the young patriot had made a post on Facebook, which reads thus: “Vote and not fight! Respect yourself and stay out of trouble.” His life was cut short in its prime and the blood of the young was used as the ink for voting. That story is not an isolated event. Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered dozens of such tragic incidents from states around the nation. In Okota area of Lagos, residents took laws into their hands by meting out jungle justice on a suspected ballot box snatcher identified simply as Demola during the Presidential and National Assembly elections. It was as if the angel of death had come to rest in Nigeria as unthinking, unwholesome and utterly wicked acts were the highlights of the election. Demola was said to have led a group of miscreants to snatch ballot boxes and was escaping with his motorcycle before he was apprehended and stoned to death. In a video made of the incident, a male voice was heard in the background saying “that is Demola, they have stolen all the ballot boxes.” While his reported actions were indeed criminally, one has to ask if death really is the best way to ensure justice. The video, which trended all over social media platforms, caused quite the stir, and many have opined that no man, however criminally should die that way. The death was extremely inhuman and gruesome. Another example is the tragic story of an 18-year-old boy in Isolo, Lagos that was killed in the voting process. His murder was particularly heartbreaking because it was needless, unprovoked, and inexplicable. A recent report by civil society groups stated that election day violence alone killed at least 39 people across Nigeria. The groups said the death toll during what has been termed Africa’s biggest elections was higher than that of the 2015 poll, which was widely considered to have been orderly, aside from a Boko Haram attack that killed more than a dozen people. Clement Nwankwo, convener of the Situation Room, which represents more than 70 civil society groups, said 16 people were killed in election violence across eight states, while Lagos-based consultancy SBM Intelligence cited 35 deaths. Festus Okoye, an Independent National Electoral Commission official, said some people were killed in the southern states of Rivers, Lagos and Oyo, but could not confirm any figures. Before voting ended last Saturday, media reports also showed that as many as 40 people could have been killed all in ways too inhuman to consider. Different sources reported that as many as 30 could have been killed in Rivers State. Three were killed in Kogi State; two were killed in Bayelsa State; two were killed in Delta State, and one was killed in Oyo State. The dead included civilians shot by soldiers, civilians shot by political thugs, and politicians shot by political thugs and unknown assassins. One was said to be an ad hoc electoral officer recruited from the National Youth Service Corps. INEC employs the services of members of the NYSC because it is cheap labour for them. But it has shown that it is a dangerous exercise for these young graduates who are engaged in the mandatory one-year service to their fatherland. No parent will feel happy to train a child from primary school through the university only to have that child killed while rendering some services to the fatherland. Other reports also reveal that soldiers allegedly unleashed violence on Abonnema in Akuku-Toru Local Government Area of the state where 15 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members were killed. The military also allegedly killed two PDP agents in Emohua Local Government Area of the state on Saturday. At Okrika, alleged APC thugs snatched election materials from four riverine wards to an unknown destination, also with the support of the army. This same scenario was repeated in parts of Ahoada West, Asari Toru, Emouha Degema, and Opo/Nkoro Local Government Areas of the State. “Again, in the ensuing confusion and anarchy, the army reportedly shot and killed a youth corper as well as an Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC’s ad hoc staff in Emouha and Degema Local Government Areas respectively.” Another officer of the Nigerian Army was said to be lost to the election violence in Rivers State, while six other persons were shot dead during an ambush of troops by alleged assailants in Abonema, Akuku Toru LGA. An army statement signed by its spokesman, Col. Sagir Musa, said: “The pre-planned attack occurred in between Charles and Bob-Manuel’s compounds in Abonema Town about 1.00 pm on February 23, 2019. “The attackers barricaded a major road into the town and laid an ambush in the adjoining built-up areas from where they opened fire on our unsuspecting troops when they attempted to remove the barricade. “The gallant troops fought their way through the siege, and in the process killed six of the assailants. However, we lost a lieutenant and two soldiers were wounded in the encounter. “Preliminary investigation indicated that one Roland Sekibo, – the Chairman, Akuku Toru LGA, Omodo; the CSO Akuku Toru LGA and Kenneth Kula, currently at large, were the masterminds of the unexpected and unprovoked attack.” This is the reality of election violence today. The sad reality is that help seems not to be coming and the killing spree will continue if unchecked. The police who have a part to play in securing and protecting lives and property has become a part of the problem. In the 2019 presidential elections, it seemed many police officers and commands have altogether been allegedly bought over by one party or the other. In a recent video that went viral a week ago, angry youths descended upon a Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Federal SARS in Bayelsa State, Mr. Kola Okunlola, who was accused of collaborating with some politicians to allegedly snatch electoral materials in Brass local government area of Bayelsa. The Youths of Twon Brass were sighted dragging the Deputy Commissioner on the road after the allegation while holding him hostage. They said they want him to do the right thing by returning the election materials and collating the results at the local government level before taking it to the state INEC headquarters. In response, a message from the Force Public Relations Department released via Twitter and titled ‘Hero of Democracy’ reads, “This is DCP Kola Okunola a gentleman and an Officer par excellence. He was attacked and molested by thugs on 24th February 2019 while performing his legitimate duties defending the sanctity of the electoral system in Brass, Bayelsa State. It is not true that he snatched ballot boxes as alleged. He is indeed a hero of Democracy!” This is just one of many such situations, and not all of those situations are as easily explained and the Officers in question exonerated. This was perhaps the reason for the intervention of the Nigeria Army in securing the election, but that simply opened up a new can of worms. An unconfirmed report from one of the suburbs in Lagos State states that some members of the Nigeria Army allegedly opened fire on civilians who were on a queue and ready to cast their votes. Where then does security for the electorate come from? In actual fact, involving the military in our democracy is like building a bomb and expecting it not to be detonated. Any involvement of the military in the electoral and democratic process, many believe may leave Nigeria vulnerable to a coup de tat. As far back as 1979, when presidential elections were held in Nigeria for the first time on 11 August 1979, violence has been a part of Nigeria elections. The result was a victory for the late President Shehu Shagari, whose National Party of Nigeria (NPN) won the parliamentary elections in July. A dispute had ensued over whether Shehu Shagari had received the necessary threshold to emerge winner, but the aftermath was nothing compared to what is obtainable today. The next time Nigeria witnessed violence as a result of elections was in 1993. The presidential elections were held on 12 June 1993, the first since the 1983 military coup. The result was a victory for the late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), who defeated Bashir Tofa of the National Republican Convention (NRC). However, the elections were later annulled by the military ruler, Ibrahim Babangida, leading to a crisis that ended with Sani Abacha leading a coup later in the year. That was thought to be one of the darkest times in Nigeria’s democratic history. But more was still to come. During the 2015 general elections, many Nigerians celebrated because it seemed that we had finally gotten control of our fledgling of a democracy. The joy was palpable as the violence was at an all-time low. The blowback from the result announcements seemed like child’s play and most people were happy. The people’s choice had been elected and paradise was after all not lost. In came 2019, and it seemed that all the wisdom and experience we had gathered over the years went out of the window. Nigeria became like a scene from ‘The Hunger Games’ where it was ‘vote and be killed’. The spate rose to such a frightening crescendo that the sounds of gunshots were music to the ears of some and just another noise from the racket that seems to be Nigeria. Our country became the untouchable where people fled at the mention of election, and all victories – and loses came with bloodshed. As at press time, more killings were recorded in other areas, far away from the North like the South East, South South, and South West. It has become sadly apparent that killings seem to have become an integral part of Nigeria’s elections. Omotunde Aina, a 45-year-old father of three who resides in the United Kingdom fled back to the UK when he arrived in Nigeria and was told that it was election season. His fear was that his children were still young, and he was not about to become another “casualty, recorded as a statistic that is the war called election in Nigeria. In the UK, we vote on the way to work, no threats, nothing. It is all peaceful. So why should I die for a country that doesn’t even know my name? This election will be bloody and I refuse to be a part of it.” Like a soothsayer, Aina’s pronouncement came to pass, the election was indeed so. Unexpectedly, the violence did not only occur post-election, it actually began long before the elections even started. Speaking to Saturday INDEPENDENT, a 34-year-old who has never voted in her life, Obianuju Nata, a mother of three said that election violence is one the reasons she has never bothered to step out of her house to support any political party on election day. She further shared that this 2019, she was enticed and encouraged to vote for the first time. Not that her fear of violence that usually plagues Nigerian elections and political campaigns had disappeared, but because many young people were encouraged to stand up to protect their votes. Nata explained that the last chaos she and her children witnessed at a local market in Okearo community, Ifo local government, Ogun State, on a Sunday evening, few days to the postponed election was what sent her back into her shell. “Since the election campaign kicked off, I have witnessed at least three fights by political thugs after every rally close to the market, but this last one made me depressed. “The convoy of the Peoples Democratic Party was passing by a small market in the community. The motorcade was on a medium speed with huge looking men that were fully geared and armed as if for battle, running beside the cars and shooting in the air. Some of the market sellers, being aware of what was coming were trying to take cover until someone; probably a political aide opened one of the car windows and threw a few naira notes in the air. That was all it took to reverse the steps of people who were running for cover to turn and chase the money floating in the air like lost dreams.” Though no serious casualty was recorded, according to Nata, that scenario which she witnessed was all she needed to change her mind about taking part in the election. “What I witnessed that day opened my eyes to why these politicians can never wish the masses any good. They want us all to remain poor, impoverished even so that we can always run after their scraps as people ran after the money flying in the air without thinking twice about their life. The scenario looked planned to me. A fast running motorcade, throwing money in the air with thugs shooting into the air and people running here and there and after them only shows so much of the spectacle they have made out of our poverty. I mean, chasing after such money can either get you crushed by an oncoming vehicle, hit by stray bullet from the shootings in the air or even get you trampled in the stampede,” she said. Obianuju Nata may be one among millions who may recoil into their shell when it is time for another election because of violence. The extent of violence witnessed in this last election may discourage many from coming out ever again. A political analyst, who preferred to be identified as simply Victor said, “Nigeria’s presidential elections will always be violent if the center, the number one seat of the nation remains as enticing as it is. Everyone wants what is good, after all. You hear cases of people taking bank loans to run their campaign. It is because they are expecting quality returns. We have a damaged democracy and people are greedy,” he said. Some elder statesmen such as Dr. Christopher Kolade and Chief Philip Asiodu, under the auspices of ‘Burdened Elders’, have also said: “The nation is bleeding profusely and approaching a frontier it had never seen before.” They said the violent turn of expressions and increasing desperation of the national polity must be reversed. According to them, Nigeria’s democracy is deeply flawed and stuck in utter primitiveness. Recurring election violence will further endanger its development and that of politics in Nigeria. Winning for many people is the ultimate goal in life, but at what cost is Nigeria’s democracy to be bought anew? Nigerians have already paid the price in blood decades ago, who exactly is trying to exact this new price? While the Federal Government has said that it would seek justice for victims of the violence that greeted last weekend’s Presidential and National Assembly elections, the dead and wounded remain so.