Lagos – A 49- year -old electrician, Ismaila Salau accused of murdering Silifat Yakubu, his wife of twenty years denied killing and dumping her body in the stream before a Lagos state High Court Ignosere on Tuesday. The defendant, Salau who is standing trial on a one count charge of murder preferred against him by the Lagos State Government told the court that he does not know how his wife died, neither did he dumped her remains at the stream. He was arraigned in 2015 but pleaded not guilty to the charge and the court ordered his remand in the prison custody. The Lagos State Prosecuting counsel Jubril Kareem, had told the court that the defendant allegedly murdered his wife, Silifat Yakubu, by hitting her head with a pestle and dumped her corpse in a nearby stream. He said that the offence was committed on October 3, 2014, at about 11pm, at 18, Igbele village, in Araromi community of Badagry, Lagos State. According to him, the offence committed is punishable under section 221, Criminal law of Lagos State 2015. At the resumed hearing of the matter Yesterday, Salau who opened his defense told the court that on the fateful day of the incident, the deceased had told him that she was going to visit her mother, along with their three children, since it was during Sallah festival. While being led in evidence by his counsel A.A Babalola, the defendant said that at about 10 am, his wife called him and he asked her if they had gotten to her mother’s place, she said no that they were still on their way, so he asked her to inform him, once they get there and at 11 am, she called back to inform me that they were already there. Salau said “After my wife got to her mother’s place she called me and I asked me to speak with her mother and by 8pm, she called and informed me that she was still at her mother’s place, and that she wants to stay a bit before leaving for home, so I said ok.” “Before I got to Igbele, it was 1am, and it rained heavily, till the next morning, while I was going I did not know that there was a gutter close by as the whole place was flooded and the bus sank into the gutter. I then went to my wife’s elder brother’s place and told him what happened so he offered to help me pull out the bus from the gutter. “After we succeeded in pulling out the bus, it was already 4am, so I went home and opened the door since it was locked, at about 5:30am, I called my wife’s number it was switched off, then I waited and after sometime I called my first child who told me that his mother left the previous night around 8pm and has not returned, then I called my mother-in-law and she also confirmed what my first child said, “ the witness stated. According to the witness on October 4, which was on a Saturday, we were having meeting because that day was on environmental sanitation day, and while there, they asked me if I have heard what happened, that they saw a dead pregnant drowned woman in the stream.They added that the Baale in our community has gone to report the incident at the police station. Salau, said, “I then told the Baale that my wife was missing so he asked me and my wife’s elder brother to go to the Badagry general hospital, when we got there, they took us to the mortuary, and they showed me a corpse they had brought the previous day, but I couldn’t identify corpse, when I saw it, I was terrified  and said this is not my wife, until the next day when I and my wife’s friends went back there before I was able to identify the corpse”.