Wilson Macaulay, Victor Otuya Chief (Dr.) Edwin Kiagbodo Clark, the National Leader, Ijaw Nation, Delta Elders Forum and Chairman PANDEF has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to withdraw the military from electoral duties. Chief Clark who also expressed support for the second bid of Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, Govenor of Delta State made the call during a press briefing in his country home at Kiagbodo. In a press statement made available to Daily Independent by Dr. Alfred Mulade, the Ijaw Leader expressed concern on widespread security breaches in several parts of the country and especially in the oil rich region. He said: “First, let me express my concern and deepest condemnation in the strongest possible terms on the reported violence and killings that characterized the Presidential and National Assembly elections held on Saturday, February 23, 2019, in parts of the country, particularly in Rivers, Bayelsa, Lagos and Delta States. “The gory tales of violence at Okrika Okrika LGA, Opobo in Opobo LGA, Bonny Island in Bonny LGA and particularly killings in Abonnema, Asari-Toru LGA of Rivers State, the mindless electoral violence recorded in such places as Bassambiri, in Nembe LGA, Brass in Brass LGA, Agbere in Sagbama LGA and various parts of Southern Ijaw LGA, in Bayelsa State, is quite worrisome.” Warning that as the country prepares for the next round of elections for the Governorship and State Houses of Assemblies scheduled for Saturday, March 9, 2019, he appealed to every politician to play by the rules, and eschew actions capable of igniting violence and brigandage. He described as appalling actions of some desperate politicians who do not enjoy popularity in their respective constituencies resorting to sponsorship of violence and killings. He frowned at instances and reports of military intimidation of every available innocent in a bid to connive and cajole the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials to perpetrate electoral fraud resulting in violence and deaths. Chief Clark sympathized with the families of victims, be they civilians or soldiers as l Nigerians who were cut down in their prime in those orgies of electoral violence. “I offer prayers for the repose of their souls. I demand that a full-scale inquiry is conducted towards bringing all those immediately and remotely connected with the dastardly acts, irrespective of their status in the society, under the full weight of the law. “I caution that Nigeria is a country governed by laws. No person is permitted to take laws into his hands by resorting to violence and killings in the name of elections. This must never be allowed to repeat itself. It is very harrowing, a very dangerous trend, and a threat to our democracy. He added: “These atrocities are allegedly committed, with the aid and facilitation by the military, I am told, through their operational platforms”. The Elder statesman, who recalled that the Operation Python Dance was meant for security of the region, expressed surprise at the turnaround of the military’s involvement in elections. “I am informed that the purpose of this military operation is for the security of the area, particularly in the South-South and South-East and that it has nothing to do with the elections. By what I have seen, as earlier suspected, the military was more involved in the conduct of the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections than even the police. “It is now clear to us that the involvement of the army was purposeful to intimidate and prevent South-South and South-East voters from exercising their franchise and to aid and abet the manipulation of votes to favour the incumbent and to determine the general voting pattern in the country. “The Presidential election has come and gone and February 28 deadline for the military Operation Python Dance has elapsed. I, therefore, strongly advise that the Army be withdrawn to forestall further hostilities and unnecessary killings in the region. He reminded the Federal government that the deployment of the military on election duties remains an aberration laid to rest in the Court of Appeal the case of ALL PROGRESSIVE CONGRESS V PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC PARTY&ORS CA/EK/EPT/GOV/1/2015 delivered on Monday, 16th day of February 2015. On the second term bid of Dr . Okowa he said: “I am appealing to all Deltans, politicians and contestants of political offices in Delta State to distance themselves away from anything that will cause bloodletting in the State. He submitted: “Delta State under His Excellency, Sen. Dr. IfeanyiOkowa is peaceful and the government is performing. I have had cause to address an open letter to all Deltans, in my New Year Message, on the need to support Governor Okowa for his second term bid on account of his satisfactory performance and the need for equity in Delta State”.