Port Harcourt – Rivers state is a very peculiar settlement among the thirty six states in Nigeria. It is as notorious in crisis as it is famous in mineral resources. To some Nigerians and foreigners alike, the name Rivers does not necessarily imply a multitude of waters. It is rather synonymous with a bunch of woes: cultism which started like pick-pocketing in the 1990s when the now densely populated part of mile 1, Diobu became a settlement for all. There was militancy, and kidnapping. The act of kidnapping became a very lucrative business. It fetched quick money. At that time, any fair skin was assumed to be an expatriate and he was good enough to be traded for ransom cash. There was also a season of robbery and then later excessive bloodletting. In the era of militancy in the Niger Delta oil producing region, activities of oil business was drastically brought to a halt and the Nigeria’s national economy depleted to the canvass. The two names that caused the unbridled terror in the land were Alhaji Mujihad Asari Dokubo  (born Melford Dokubo Goodhead jnr) and Ateke Michael Tom. In those dark years, the two men led such deadly groups as Niger Delta People’s Volunteer Force, NDPVF, while Ateke Tom, Asari’s arch-rival formed the Niger Delta Vigilante, NDV. The battle between the two men and their foot soldiers was who should control the oil rich region. This sparked up the great but notorious era of bloody militancy with Warri in Delta state being the first battleground. Then followed by Port Harcourt, Rivers state, the hub of Africa’s oil and gas where oil was mixed with blood while Nigeria’s economy suffered the booming sound of dynamites and explosions on both off and onshore oil facilities. These activities crippled the country’s economy most pitiably. Today, Asari owns a University of his own while Ateke is a proud King of his people at Okochiri. The above rough and regrettable history was replayed in the memories of those who actually witnessed that era last Saturday, March 8 and 9. In the course of the 2019 Governorship and House of Assembly elections in Rivers state, the palace of King Ateke Tom was thoroughly ransacked by some men in Army uniform. For those who place importance on traditional institution, the Ateke’s palace was most desecrated by the Nigerian Army. Soldiers stormed the palace in a Commando style, perhaps in search of the King. Eye witnesses said a lot of things including the close circuit cameras, CCTV, were disconnected and destroyed. The question begging for answer at this point is, assume that the soldiers met with Ateke in the palace, would they have arrested him? Though the military has not spoken on the raid on Ateke’s palace, stakeholders in the state have roundly condemned such act of intimidation and harangued harassment. When he was crowned King of Okochiri about two years ago, dignitaries including the Rivers state Governor, Nyesom Wike graced the occasion with pomp and pageantry. King Ateke who spoke through the chief of staff of the palace, Chief Tamuno Akalokpo said one person, John Ogbu was killed in the cause of the raid while several other persons were arrested and taken to the 6 Division of the Nigerian Army on Thursday evening. “We the people of Okochiri Kingdom are not happy with the unprovoked attack on our Monarch. He is not less than the Emir of Kano, Sokoto, the Oba of Yorubaland and other high Kings in the country without giving respect to the royal stool. We will not accept this. Men of the Nigerian Army have desecrated the Palace of our King and the entire Kingdom, and we are not happy about it. “If it is politically motivated, our King is not a politician. He embraces all the candidates of all the political parties contesting election in the state that came to visit him, he received all of them and gave his blessings to all of them, so why this? Also venting its anger on this, the Ijaw Youth Council, IYC, described the invasion as most barbaric act that could be meted out by any institution whatsoever no matter the level of provocation, if there was such provocation. IYC President, Barr. Pereotubo Roland Oweilaemi said the alleged act of aggression was not only barbaric but sacrilegious, and should be condemned by every well-meaning Nigerian. “IYC cannot comprehend why the Ijaw people are made the scapegoats of the Federal Government’s desperation in deploying the military to rig the elections for the All Progressives Candidates and by so doing brings disrepute to the ancestral throne of the Okochiri kingdom? On his part, Asari Dokubo who is also highly respected by the Ijaw people especially those within the youth bracket was also embarrassed by the Nigerian Army in the course of the elections in Rivers state. He claimed that soldiers stormed his home at Opuama in Asari Toru local government area of the state and got his two cousins whisked away. ”They left my home planting fear in the minds of members of my family,” the former warlord hollered. According to Asari Dokubo, the Army has already prepared “trumped up charges against one of my cousins as being one of the Boko Haram insurgents who escaped from the North East region of the country. They took two of my cousins away. Now, I sent somebody to the Barracks, but he was told that they are charging Muhammed Asari as somebody who escaped from Boko Haram. “How can an Ijaw man be a member of Boko Haram? I am sending my lawyer again to meet them. I learnt they have handed them over to military Police”, he said. In a youtube video clip, Asari attested that he was invited to the 6 Division of the Nigerian Army and on getting there he was kept for more than two hours before he was attended to. The creeks of the Niger Delta region had known a relative peace over the years. It is also important to essentially allow the peace to grow so that Nigeria’s monolithic economy which rests solely on oil can stabilize. It is also important to know that with the minimum wage of N30,000 for federal workers still on negotiation table, so much money would be needed by government to implement this promise and provide infrastructure for Nigerians. It is on this note that it can only be wise if the creeks are allowed to remain as quiet as they are now without any form of provocation that may eventually lead to angry youths blowing up oil pipelines and resorting to aggressive means of retaliating such provocation. The era of militancy remains a sour taste in the mouth of every Nigerian. Though there is a prevailing peace at the moment, the Niger Delta region remains a very delicate entity and government should do everything possible to eschew any form of violence that may lead to anybody tampering with the oil facilities since the lives of Nigerians as a nation depend on oil. The federal government is already doing a lot to turn the attention of the irate youths of the region from criminality to responsible people through the instrumentality of the presidential amnesty program, PAP. So much money has been pumped in there to make the Niger Delta youths responsible employers of labor rather than constituting nuisance to the public. The important footnote at this point is that while the Professor Charles Dokubo’s amnesty program is working assiduously to reposition the youths of the region, unprovoked attacks on the likes of King Ateke Tom and Alhaji Asari Dokubo could spark off another round of militancy in the region thereby jeopardizing the effort of the federal government in injecting peace into the creeks for a free flow of oil.