Lagos – “I want to live long to see my children’s children.” This is the most common prayer of many Nigerians. But for most elderly in the society, the reality of being aged in the present world is not pleasant. The sad reality of many aged people in Nigeria is loneliness. The once-upon-a-time vibrant young citizens who had toiled all their lives to make sure their children grow up and become respectable people in the society find themselves alone, abandoned at the last days of their lives. In Abule community, Oke-Aro, Ogun State, one of oldest women in the community, Felicia Sodipo was buried few weeks back. Few months before she was found dead in her small hut, Iya Agba, as she was fondly called, was estimated to be more than 100 years old because of her shrunk feature and absence of teeth. Her movement had slowed drastically to a crawl but the burden of old age did not stop her from her daily chores. Because she lived alone with no help, she had been spotted washing her own clothes, plates and still run her kerosene business, which she measured with old Pepsi bottles. Only a few saw Iya Agba few months before her demise. Her neighbors said that she was not able to get out of the house anymore. Some of them had to take turns in feeding her and taking care of her chores. Many old people are in Iya Agba’s situation. To some extent, churches and other religious institutions, which are supposed to preach about taking care of the old, have unknowingly widened the gap between the old and the young in the society. The unending search for miracle and permanent solution to life challenges has made many abandon their aged parents due to prophecy they heard in the church about their parents or grandparents being a witch. One of these scenarios explained a story our reporter got from a childhood friend years back. Five years ago, Stella Chukwu was consoling an elderly market woman who could not control her tears while selling her wares in Kenyata Market in Enugu. According to the aged woman, who gave Miss Chukwu her name as Mama Ekemma, she suddenly remembered how many years she has hawked palm oil, smoked fish and any fruit in season to train her only son in the university, only to be left all alone now that he is married and working in a reputable company. According to Mama Ekemma, who was a few years to clocking 70, she was accused of being a witch hindering the progress of her son and his wife, which made the son, who was supporting her after he graduated, stopped visiting. “I am all alone. I believe I wasted my years toiling to send my son to school. I did not send my first daughter to school because I believed my son was more brilliant than her and I could not send the two at the same time. My daughter is married and lives in Lagos. She and her husband are not rich enough to sustain me. I only visit them once in every six months. Even when I go to visit them, I harvest cassava from my farm, process it and make garri that I will take to them in Lagos. “My only hope was my son. After he graduated, he was helping me. I was happy because he lives in Enugu with me. But after he got married, his wife started taking him to a church where he was told I am the witch hindering their progress. He confronted me and that was the last time he visited me. Now, arthritis cannot allow me hawk like I used to. I am not up to 70 but I know I look older because of hardship and long years of hard work,” Mama Ekemma cried. Our reporter recently spoke with Miss Chukwu, who had become more than just a customer to the aged woman after the incident to find out how the woman was keeping up. She stated that the woman went back to her village and has never heard from her. “Her health kept deteriorating. She could not come to the market as often as before. She could not afford a phone and I didn’t know how to locate her. I wish I know how she is,” she said. Unfortunately, many old people in Nigeria today are passing through the same challenge like Mama Ekemma. Being labeled a witch may not be the case of other aged people but the fact that children grow, get married and abandon their parents. Nigerian government to a large extent has been blamed for adding fuel to the inferno when it comes to respecting the elderly. For aged people who have served their father’s land diligently until retirement calls, receiving their pension for monthly upkeep has been turned to a tug of war. There have been many cases where the elderly have had to queue under the sun for long hours to receive what they worked all their lives for. Countless times, many have collapsed and died in the process of waiting to be screened.
In February 2016, a 75 year-old pensioner, Sunday Oboite, collapsed and died while waiting on queue to be screened at the Oredo Local Council secretariat in Benin City, capital of Edo State. The pathetic story of a former National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) boss, Colonel Peter Obasa, begging for his pension and gratuities 35 years after retirement, is one out of many examples of what many senior citizens go through. According to the report, the former Director-General of NYSC, Colonel Obasa (retired), was appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari for the payment of his gratuity and pension, 35 years after he was compulsorily retired by the military. The 81-year old retired military officer, who served as NYSC DG between 1979 and 1984 made the appeal at a press conference in his residence in Ilorin during which he presented a book titled ‘House of Exile.’ Obasa, while arguing that he was only compulsorily retired and not dismissed said that he received no letter of dismissal from the Army to have informed nonpayment of his entitlement. “I made my appeal to Mr. President, in the name of Almighty God, in the names of all that are holy, in the names of all that are good, true, and are just, to give me justice of the type that will attract the approval of God,” he said. There have been several stories of many elderly people dying alone without anyone noticing their absence. Some aged people who sent their children abroad for better education have found themselves alone later days in their lives because their children could not visit or have married foreigners.
There are also cases where house helps cart away belongings of aged people they are asked to care for. Pastor Bisi Olu, who is also an entertainment editor, with a reputable media house explained how neighbors found an 85 year-old man in his pool of blood after he was attacked by robbers that were alleged to have been sent by his home help. According to Olu, the old man was one of the few aged people they visit regularly to administer prayers in the community. On that fateful day, the troubled aged man called the pastor to save his life because all his children reside abroad. Another touching story is that of Wale Oludayo’s father in Ibadan.
Wale Oludayo told Saturday INDEPENDENT that because he and his siblings were scared of leaving their father alone, they married a young wife for him so that he can have a companion. On one of their impromptu visits, they discovered that their father was alone. “When we asked him where the wife went, he said he has not seen her for two days. That she doesn’t tell him where she is going. And that has been happening for many months. My father resulted to having personal customers who come and deliver roasted fish, bread, vegetable oil and many other house hold stuffs so as to be able to feed. Our investigations proved that the woman, out of all the money we send for their up keep, had built a house for herself somewhere and hardly stays with our dad,” he said. Oludayo explained that they regret marrying someone much younger than their dad for him and are still in the processes of reaching an agreement to divorce the woman. Comfort Nanka, a retired head teacher and widow, lived alone in her hometown in Enugu Agidi, Anambra State. Though, Madam Nanka’s marriage did not produce any child, she is grateful that the children from the late husband’s first wife remember her. The first wife’s children are all married and live abroad and can only visit during festive seasons. Madam Nanka says she is still lonely. As little as filling up her cooking gas cylinder, she has to call her brother’s son who works and lives in another town to come and help her. In an interview for Senior Citizens column on Independent Newspaper, former chairman, Rotary Club, District 911, Chief Olu Fadeyi disclosed that he and his wife discovered the secret to beating the ‘Empty Nest Syndrome’ by moving away from their Duplex to a smaller apartment in the same compound. He said he had to move his domestic staff to the duplex while he and his wife stay in the smaller apartment. According to him, the reason is that staying in a compact apartment doesn’t spark any form of loneliness unlike when you stay in the duplex without the children. The empty rooms in the duplex remind you of the absence of the children. You keep remembering when they were there with the whole house bubbling. “Now, that they are no longer with you, you just have to adjust to suit your present situation,” he said.
Just as many elderly complain of not seeing their children often, many blame the current technology age of adding to their loneliness. Madam Janet complained that whenever her son sends her grandchildren to visit, the children are always on the phones and tablets and hardly pay attention to her. The African culture is one that prides itself in caring for the elderly in the society; it is a communal project. However since the infusion of the western culture into the African circle, society has become more selfish. Many families are copying the modern way of life where it is just the husband wife and children. In this view, Joseph Ukwuma, a businessman said that most parents share the blame of not being allowed to live with their children when they marry. “Some of them consciously or unconsciously cause unnecessary rift between the newlywed couples with their constant complaints or efforts to mould their children’s spouse into who they are not,” he said. Some people blamed the economic situation of the country as not being favourable enough to cater for their immediate family and aged parents. In spite of these, whether troublesome or not, old people deserve some care and if their children cannot give the needed care and attention, then the society has a duty to make provision for them. Hitting the Google search engine to find out how many old peoples are in Nigeria showed scanty record of aged homes in a few cities. Presently, according to record online, there are about 14 homes in Ibadan with one branch in Lagos. 10 in Lagos State, three in Calabar, two in Enugu and a few in Abuja. The statistics, according to a London-based caregiver, Ifeoma Philip, is poor for a country with over 180 million people.