Bauchi – The Bauchi State chapter of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) has endorsed as its candidate the gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir, ahead of the March 9 gubernatorial and state Assembly elections. The House of Representatives candidate for Kirfi/ Alkaleri Federal Constituency of Bauchi State, Alhaji Mohammed Idris Jibrin, who spoke on behalf of the party in the state, said that the endorsement was a unanimous decision by members of the party because of deteriorating state of affairs in the state. “We are endorsing the former FCT Minister, Bala Mohammed, as the party’s candidate ahead of the March 9 governorship election because we have the need for Bauchi State to be repositioned to its former glory. Bala is someone who we feel can deliver quality leadership seeing how well he has performing when he held various positions of leadership in the past. “The power of incumbent will not stop Senator Bala Mohammed from defeating Governor Abubakar because things are not working in Bauchi state. When Bala was the FCT Minister, he executed many developmental projects such as water, roads, electricity, health care and many other social amenities in almost every nook and corner of every state of the federation,” he said According to him, the present administration in the state under Governor Abubakar has not conducted local government election in more than three and half years which he noted has affected the people at the grassroots negatively. Jibrin, who contested under APM platform, said his party would give the governorship candidate of the PDP block votes to enable him win the election, adding that the party had been embarking on house to house campaign in the state. On the just concluded National Assembly election in the state, he said that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) conducted free, fair and credible elections but that the exercise was later hijacked by some selfish politicians in his constituency, which made him to lose in the contest. Alhaji Idris alleged that the collation center for Alkaleri /Kirfi Federal Constituency was in Alkaleri but up till now, no official announcement has been made by the Returning Officer‎. ‎”I would have won the election if not that the electoral process was hijacked by selfish politicans in my constituency. After the election, to my surprise, i overheard it on air that somebody had won but i don’t know with how many votes,” he said.