Chief Sunny Onuesoke is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former governorship aspirant in Delta state. In this interview, he speaks on the chances of his party in Saturday’s governorship elections and some other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has never hidden its desire to win the governorship election in Delta state especially having won some seats during the Presidential and National Assembly polls. As a chieftain of the PDP, do you see them as a threat to your party? As long as Delta state is concerned, we don’t see any threat by APC to capture Delta state. It is just a gimmick from the National leadership of APC. With due respect to your question, no APC member won elections in the NASS and presidential elections. The Omo-Agege and House of Reps member that claimed they win the election was all fraud and massive rigging. APC and the military insisted it must be APC candidates that must win Omo -Agege senatorial district. It was obvious to the world that what happened on 23rd of February was a fraud committed by the authorities in Abuja. The chances of Okowa, whom we all know as the Promise Keeper is very bright. Okowa and PDP are already celebrating our pre-victory dance because we all know Delta is PDP and PDP is Delta. APC think they are more intelligent than PDP. APC will be shocked to see the post-election result of Okowa on the 10th of March. It won’t take APC three hours during the elections on Saturday before they will send congratulatory messages to Okowa for a sound victory. If there is going to be a change in Delta state, it will take another a half a century to do that by any political formation in Nigeria and not even by the APC. Take it from me, the APC gubernatorial candidate will withdraw from the race before Saturday because he has seen the wind of progress flowing through the air in recognition of Okowa’s second term victory. Why do you think Governor Okowa should be reelected? Okowa’s re-election is a sealed and signed document that has already been approved by Delta electorates since last year after completing his campaign promises and decided to go extra miles with oversight functions to add more to his completed 2015 promises. Don’t forget Okowa is a time keeper. To me, he is the smartest governor in terms of development that Nigeria has ever produced and elected since 1960. Okowa’s reelection is hundred percent based on his sterling performance. I am a firm believer in performance as a yardstick to measure productivity. I don’t subscribe to ethnicity and tribalism. I don’t support federal character but a firm believer in merit and qualifications because tribe or ethnicity will bring out the worst instead of merit or qualifications. The federal government has said it will deploy additional security to South- South states on Saturday. Do you think that is necessary since INEC never requested for such? I think it is a mere gimmick and threat from the presidency to utter such a word from the seat of the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. It shows the level that our government has turned into. I was expecting the Armed Forces to refute that statement from the presidency but I am shocked they never did. It is a calculated attempt to scare legitimate PDP voters from coming out to vote across the South South states. It should be noted that the South South has resolved to give PDP 92% across the states in the South South. There are no two ways to that vow and commitment. It is already a goal against the APC as a bundle of yoyos who came together to rip off the country’s shining glory that PDP suffered to install for 16 years. It is painful that in just four years, APC under the Buhari administration has destroyed all the legacies put in place by the PDP in the last 16 years. Are you in support of those calling Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate not to head to court but congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari? Why should Atiku congratulate Buhari for an election that he (Atiku) won with a very wide margin?. I am still hoping to see Buhari display statesmanship by accepting that he lost the election and that Atiku should be sworn-in as the winner of the presidential elections. I am surprised that people are saying he should congratulate Buhari. On what grounds and premises should he do so? That to me is a very funny suggestion by Nigerians. It Is spiteful and unacceptable to social decent society norms.