President Muhammadu Buhari was last Wednesday declared winner of the Presidential election conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on February 23, 2019. Buhari, who sought re-election on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) polled 15,191,847 votes to defeat his closest rival, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC Chairman, who announced the result of the election, Atiku polled 11,262,978 to lose the election with a margin of 3,928,869 votes. This is according to the Independent National Electoral Commission’s collated figure of votes from all the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). According to the constitution, a presidential candidate must have nothing less than 25 per cent of votes cast in at least two-thirds or 24 states of the federation. The candidate should also have majority votes in the election. With the figure released by INEC at the national collation centre in Abuja on Wednesday morning, President Buhari had more than 25 per cent of the votes cast in the election in over 24 states. Atiku also had 25 per cent of the total votes cast in over 24 states, but lost the poll when the simple majority rule condition was applied. While President Buhari won in 19 states, Atiku won in 17 states and the FCT. The states Buhari won are Bauchi, Borno, Ekiti, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Nasarawa, Niger, Ogun, Osun, Sokoto, Yobe and Zamfara. Atiku won in Abia, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Enugu, Imo, Ondo, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, Taraba and the FCT. INEC had started the collation of the results on Monday with the declaration of results from 11 states and the FCT, during which Buhari won seven states leaving Atiku with four and the FCT The collation of results for the 2019 Presidential election continued on Tuesday with Niger State where Buhari with 612, 371 votes beat Atiku who scored 218, 052. There are 2,375,568 registered voters across the 15 Local Government Areas of the state and 911,964 accredited voters. Why INEC Declared Buhari Winner – Yakubu Mahmood Yakubu, INEC Chairman, acting as the Chief Returning Officer, while announcing the result at the national collation centre on Wednesday morning, explained that Buhari was declared re-elected, having met the constitution requirements. Yakubu said that the registered voters was 82,344, 107, accredited voters was 29,364,209, total votes cast was 28,614,190, total valid votes was 27,324,583 and rejected votes was 1,289,607. “That Muhammadu Buhari having satisfied the requirement of the law and scored the highest votes is hereby declared the winner,” Yakubu said. In 2015, Buhari scored 15, 424,921 votes to beat the PDP incumbent Goodluck Jonathan, who scored 12,853,162 votes. Having won the election for the second term, what agenda would Nigerians like President Buhari tp pursue in the next four years? In his first term, his focus was on anti-corruption war, fight against insurgency and economic revitalisation. So far, a cross section of Nigerians has mixed feelings over how well he tackled these issues, with many scoring the administration below average as these issues still persist, with insecurity still a worry, the economy still poor and the fight against corruption said to be one-sided, and targeted at the opposition. Buhari Should Be Nigeria’s President, Not A Sectional Leader – Cleric Bishop Joseph Aramede of Higher Power Ministry, Benin City, said: “President Muhammadu Buhari should be aware that majority of Nigerians are not happy with the way he administered the country in the last four years, especially in the area of security and his lopsided appointment he made. “His supporters may be pretending that all is well, whereas nothing is working in Nigeria as a country. If the president fails to change the situation in his second tenure, he should expect to see the other side of Nigeria and Nigerians. “All Nigerians are waiting to see how he is going to handle the issue of herdsmen and Boko Haram. The economy is secondary in the present situation in Nigeria because nobody can be talking about economy, good roads, health care and education where there is no security of lives and property. “The president should see himself this time around as the president of Nigeria and not the president of a section because he got his votes in all parts of the country. If he continues to rule the country the way he did in his first four years, he will see the other side of Nigerians because no particular section owned Nigeria more than the other.” Buhari Should Focus On Economy, Education, Security – Businessman Uzoma Okebalaku, an Enugu businessman, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to focus his attention on the economy, education and security in his second tenure. On the economy, Okebalaku said the President should use his second term to truly diversify the economy and make sure it no longer depends on oil revenue alone. He suggested that more investments should be made in agriculture and solid minerals to transform the country from a mono-product economy to a resource driven economy. He equally suggested that more investments should be made in the education sector in Nigeria as education remains the bedrock of development. On security, Okebalaku said there was need to re-strategise in the fight against insurgency in the North East and other security challenges facing the country. Buhari Should Run All-Inclusive Government – Activist Prince Donatus Orjika, State Social Secretary of Anambra State Association of Town Unions (ASATU) Youth Wing, and South East, Coordinator, Ethics and Values, said that President Buhari should run an all-inclusive government, a sort of Government of National Unity (GNU) because there had never been a time in the history of Nigeria that the country is so divided. He also asked the President to look into the 2014 National Conference report and see ways to use it to promote national unity and move the country to the next level. Orjika added that Buhari needs to re-brand Nigeria before the international community. He added: “He should strengthen institutions of democracy and try to eliminate issues like nepotism, religious bigotry, extremism and bridge the gap between the rich and the poor.” He also said that restructuring is an issue that the President should look into so that he doesn’t continue to “pour new wine in old wine skin”, stressing, “He needs to restructure the polity and make Nigeria a competitive nation.” ‘Buhari Should Carry All Sections Of The Country Along’ Dr. Chkwubechukwu Ijeoma, coordinator of a pro-Buhari group, also advised Buhari to run all-inclusive government. He reminded him that he does not belong to anybody, but for everybody, especially now that his party has majority of members in the National Assembly and passing of bills won’t be difficult. Ijeoma said: “He should carry all sections of the country along because according to him “We all voted for him. He should also correct the past mistakes and fulfill all promises.” Activist Urges Buhari To Unify Nigeria, Improve Economy, Focus On Infrastructure Dr. Welson Ekiyor, a social activist and Executive Directo, Campaign for Development and Democracy in Bayelsa (CDDB), has advised President Buhari to focus on the country’s unity, economy and infrastructure in the next four years of his administration. He stated this in a chat with our correspondent in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, while speaking on what should constitute the President’s policy thrust in his second term in the next four years. Ekiyor argued that Buhari’s anti-graft tactics were not healthy for the economy, stressing that many investors were divesting from the country because of the method of the fight against corruption. He said: “The first thing President Buhari needs to do now is to unify the country. The country is broken. He needs to do something about the unity of the country. “That should be his first agenda; bring the country together. When you look at the way the elections went, you will know that the country is broken. Let him bring the elite together. Let him heal wounds. “Number two agenda: He should pursue the revitilisation of the economy. There is a lot of unemployed Nigerians and there is no money circulating in the system. So, he should adjust the fiscal and monetary policies in such a way that there can be more money in the hands of people. He should address unemployment, especially youth unemployment. “The fight on corruption should not kill the economy. It is killing the economy. People are taking their money out of the economy because of the fight against corruption. “He should continue to focus on infrastructure. He is doing well, I mean. I just passed through Owerri Road and discovered that it is a miracle there between Rivers and Imo states. There is a great improvement. The railways are going on, housing, too. He should increase infrastructure.” He Should Hit The Ground Running – LG Boss Hon. Victor Uyoh, Vice Chairman, Ughelli North Local Government Council, said President Muhammadu Buhari should quickly put machineries in place to get his cabinet in place as soon as he is inaugurated for his second term. There should be no delay this time so that the issues of the troubled economy could be tackled on time. “He should focus more on the economy because the ordinary masses are still traumatised due to the recession. Another matter the President should address critically is the anti-corruption crusade, which should be taken to the next level. The sectional colorations should be dropped so as to make for an all-inclusive war on corruption. “There are too many sacred cows in Nigeria and this does not augur well with upright or decent war on corruption. The crusade has been impressive and there should be no going back on the pursuit of redress against those whose actions and inactions put holes in the national coffers. “The decay in public infrastructure and the power sector should be given serious attention too. These are areas I would want Mr. President to pay attention to in the next four years.” He Should Focus More On Economic Growth – Rights Activist Comrade Prince Kehinde Taiga, Chairman, Committee for Defense of Human Rights, Delta State, has urged the Presidency to focus more on the growth of the economy in his second term in office. He opined that with a good fight against corruption in his first tenure, Nigerians should begin to witness changes through infrastructural development. According to him, “For us to grow as a nation, the Presidency should look to ensure the problem of electricity, roads, housing and employment are looked into.” He emphasised that h such changes would enable the influx of foreign investors. According to Taiga, “With regular electricity, Nigeria will be a business hub in Africa, investors would desire to come to Nigeria and this would create employment.” Buhari Should Engage Experts, End Lopsised Appointments – ADP Scribe Chief Abazuo Ugwuke, Secretary, Action Democratic Party (ADP), Onuimo LGA, Imo State, said: “Now that that the president has secured the mandate of the people for a second tenure, he should look inwards and correct those areas that he did not do well in his first tenure. “I want the president to assemble experts from various fields of human endeavour and bring them into his conduit. Let his appointments reflect the various ethnic groups in the country and let it not be lopsided because that is why we are still where we are today. “The president should redouble efforts to tackle insurgency food crisis, unemployment, dilapidated road networks and also environmental pollution and degradation. Our Naira is still weak in the international market and he should do something about this.” Buhari Should Eradicate Hunger, Poverty Among Nigerians – NUP Chief Chief Nwamere Ibegbulem Osuji, Chairman, National Unity Party (NUP), Owerri West, Imo State, opined: “The president should give the man in the street a sense of belonging in this country. Hunger and poverty have taken a dangerous dimension in this country and as the saying goes, ‘a hungry man is an angry man.’ “Let the president look into the agitations of the various groups such as IPOB, MEND, Afenifere and the Arewa groups for us to move forward.” The President Must Ensure Economic Stability – Lawyer Barrister Taiwo Adelugba, an Osogbo legal practitioner, said: “President Muhammadu Buhari led administration must ensure the stability of the nation’s economy in terms of reduction in prices of food, goods and services to make life more meaningful for average Nigerians in his second term in office.” Adelugba, made the remarks while reacting on what agenda President Buhari should focus on in the next four years of his administration. Adelugba said though a foreign media organisation in its recent reports, said that Nigeria’s economy has taken over that South Africa, much is still needed to be done by the current administration to reduce poverty and boost food and good production. According to Adelugba, there is need by the Federal Government to review the exchange rate and interests on loans should also be slashed heavily to allow borrowing from banks and other sources. “There is also the need for the government to control prices of food, goods and services to make life more meaningful for the people of the country. The government must also create avenues to create jobs to absorb the teeming unemployed youths, which will eventually reduce crime and violence,” he added. Adelugba also tasked the government to seriously check the importation of arms and ammunitions and put security agencies to be alive to their responsibilities for the protection of lives and property. He also advised the government at the centre to encourage local production of foods, goods and services and stabilise the economy through control on import and export promotions. He further admonished the government to build on the achievements already recorded in its first term by ensuring resuscitation and completion of all abandoned projects across the country, enhance social infrastructural development through massive road construction, rail and sea ports. He Should Address The Issue Of Power – Labour Activist Comrade Francis ‘Niyi Ogunremi, Chairman, Trade Union Congress (TUC) and Chairman, Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) in Lagos State, said: “He should take the restructuring of the economy seriously. He should take the issue of security seriously. We need a stable economy. He should address the issues of herdsmen and Boko Haram. “He should offer appointments to people from every part of the country. No ethnic group should be neglected. He should address the issue of power. He should run an all-inclusive administration in his second term. South South and South East did not vote for him because they see him as nepotic. He should beware of the cabals around him.”