Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (SMEs) all over the world are seen as strategic and essential for accelerating economic growth. Over the years, this sector of the Nigerian economy has faced numerous challenges, among which is inadequate or expensive power supply to run their businesses. In this report, BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, IKECHI NZEAKO and ANDREW UTULU examine the pressure of epileptic power supply on the fortune of SMEs in the country. The contributions of SMEs to the Nigerian economy cannot be overemphasised. The scale of this transformation should not be undermined. It has been established that SMEs constitute about 90 per cent of all the businesses in Nigeria, creating more than 80 per cent of employment. Supporting SMEs in Nigeria to flourish is crucial because it creates a growing middle class with disposable income, in relation to market opportunities for new investors. SMEs have been playing a vital role by investing in community projects and financial support to charity organisations, enabling further development beyond their own ventures. One thing is clear: whether it’s a small barber shop or a dry cleaning shop down the street, small and medium-sized businesses drive the national economies. Given the potential of SMEs to unlock Nigeria’s economic growth, one of the challenges, however, is access to credit. Addressing the challenge has been a priority for the government as well as private organisations for several years. Around the world, a lot has been said about SMEs. Also there have been various subjects of discussions, seminars, and workshops both locally and internationally about SMEs. Some government have specifically formulated policies to aid the empowering, growth, development and performance of SMEs, while others have assisted through loans and fiscal incentives. According to Central bank of Nigeria report in 2003, SMEs are very important economic catalyst in developing and industrialised countries, in developed countries 98 per cent or more than belong to the Small and Medium scale sector. In Japan, 80 per cent of industrial labour force is employed by small firms, 50 per cent in Germany and 46 per cent in USA are employed by smaller businesses. According to the report, small scale firms are firms with a workforce of 11 – 100 workers and a total cost of not more than 50 million Naira including working capital and excluding cost of land, while Medium scale firms was defined as firms that have a labour force of between 101 – 300 workers with a total cost of over N50 million Naira but not less than N200 million Naira including working capital but excluding cost of land. The Small and Medium Industries and Equity Investment Scheme (SMIEIs) defined SME as an enterprise with a N200 million maximum asset base, with the exclusion of land and working capital and with a workforce of not less than 10 employees and not more than 300 employees. The role small and medium enterprises play in the development of country is very important. SMEs have greatly contributed to the Nigerian development in terms of employment, growth and development, and marketing of goods and services. The Nigerian Government is turning to small and medium scale industries and entrepreneurs as a means of developing the economy and solving problems. A great percentage of all registered companies in Nigeria are constituted by small scale industries and they have been in existence for a long time. According to the United Nations Industrial development Organisation (UNIDO), developing countries can conquer poverty and inequality by democratising, deregulating, and liberalising the integration of global economy. Recent studies have shown that SMEs contribute to over 55 per cent of GDP and over 65 per cent of total employment in high income countries also that SMEs and informal enterprises account for over 60 per cent of GDP and over 70 per cent of total employment in middle income countries. SMEs are important role players in contributing to the transition of agriculture led economies to industrial ones, SMEs help in the absorption of productive resources at all levels of the economy and contribute to the building of flexible economic system in which small and large firms are interlinked. Accordingly, SMEs are responsible for the growing forces of the largest growing economy China in terms of national GDP contribution which amount up to 60 per cent diversification of product, scale of assets and creation of employment. A lot of people rely on the small and medium enterprises either directly or indirectly. Social income distribution, employment and tax revenue, adequate utilisation of resources and stable family income are some of the significant effects SMEs have. Organisations such as Jumia are making efforts to promote the growth of SMEs in Nigeria. The e-Commerce giant has over 1.2 billion consumers and 15 million SMEs to serve across Africa, including Nigeria. To accelerate the growth of the SMEs, Jumia has opened up its platform for them to reach more customers than they would have if they were not registered. These SMEs have not only created jobs for themselves, but have employed more hands because of the increased orders they receive through Jumia. Furthermore, to address the credit challenges some of these SMEs encounter, Jumia introduced Jumia Lending. This enables SMEs to get flexible, non-collateral and low-interest credit. This has in no small measures helped these SMEs overcome their liquidity problems and stay afloat. This reveals that private sector assistance has played a crucial role in promoting the growth of SMEs in Nigeria. Nigeria, in particular, has made great strides towards helping SMEs. The country has supported SMEs through financial assistance and skill training and these could transform the economic activities in the country, spearheading economic growth across the continent. Access to electricity and its accompanied high tariffs poses a greater challenge to SMEs growth and performance in lower income countries like Nigeria, as compared with those in higher income countries. This assertion is confirmed in a research by Scott et al which reveals that, the proportion of SMEs in high-income countries citing electricity as a major constraint is half of their counterparts in the Sub-Saharan African and Asia countries.