LAGOS – The Special Task Force on Illegal Importation, South West Zone of the Importers Association of Nigeria (IMAN), said it has sealed five warehouses said to belong to Chinese firms between January and February this year. The Task Force said they were sealed over alleged illegal and unapproved activities, not operating in consonance with due regulations as well as lack of permits by the Federal Government. IMAN also disclosed that a total of ten containers of 6 x 20ft and 4x40ft with various infractions ranging from concealment to goods smuggled into the country were intercepted from various parts of Lagos State. Prosper Okolo, Chief Operating Officer (COO), IMAN Special Taskforce, South West Zone, said some of the affected warehouses were found to have contravened import laws bothering on duty infractions. Okolo noted that some of the warehouses visited by the team, which engaged in the illicit acts, are owned by foreigners, adding they were more of Chinese firms. While highlighting some of the companies allegedly involved in some of the nefarious activities, the COO fingered Megachem Nigeria Limited, Kevolinks Digital Limited, Kwikfit Nigeria Limited, Inomek Nigeria Limited and Bosac Nigeria Limited as some of the alleged perpetrators. Okolo noted that, “Aside from the concealments, some of them short paid the Federal Government to the tune of billions of Naira. “The IMAN Special Task Force on illegal importations through credible intelligence has recorded tremendous successes since it started it’s enforcement activities in the first two months of 2019. “Within the period, the Task Force also received credible intelligence of some warehouses involved in production and importations of fake and sub-standard products without approval from the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), the National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC). “The task force has so far sealed 5 warehouses which were found to deal in importation of tyres, used clothing, unwholesome products among others without the required regulations and permits. According to him, the association is working in partnership with the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) headquarters, Abuja, through intelligence and enforcement of its mandates to checkmate illegal activities of smuggling, fraud, illegal importations, forgery, concealments and other economic sabotage. “These acts the task forces sees as not only economic sabotage, but also endangering the lives of Nigerians as these tyres though new, but have lost their values due to the way they were concealed and imported into the country. “At this point, we want to reiterate that, the IMAN Special Task Force is not out to witch hunt anybody or organisations, neither is it to challenge or rub shoulders with any agency of government. “But to complement the efforts of the government agencies to rid our country of nefarious activities perpetrated by unpatriotic Nigerians and their foreign collaborators who deprived the country of not only required revenue, but also post danger to the health of Nigerians. Okolo further appealed to all security agencies, especially those involved in Imports, exports and other regulatory functions to collaborate with the association. “Finally we want to state that, the IMAN Special Task Force has come to stay, as such those involved in economic sabotage, even though they might have succeeded in beating the enforcement apparatus of other agencies, with the wider intelligence network of our activities, which is in direct collaboration with the Nigerian public, the IMAN special task force will not relent to hunt them down. “Our appeal also goes to the importers, clearing agents and manufacturers to please abide by the regulatory and fiscal requirements in line with the law in carrying out their businesses. “It is on this note we also appeal to members of the public to avail us with the necessary information regarding import frauds, forgeries, concealments and smuggling activities that will expose these economic saboteurs of their unpatriotic acts to bring them to justice. “The IMAN Special Task Force which is duly registered and approved by the Federal Government of Nigeria to carry out its activities is headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police, DIG Philemon Leha (rtd), who is the Director General of the body. IMAN Special Task Force is a private sector initiative set up by IMAN to assist other government security agencies in the country to checkmate the activities of importers, exporters and other business organisations who are involved in sabotaging the efforts of the Nigeria government in regulating and controlling influx of illegal and dangerous goods into the Country. It would be  recall  that the IMAN in November  last year  launched  the collection of its  membership  toll across all seaports,  airports and border  stations in  the South West zone. “We are  glad to inform you that we are putting  up all our structures,  one of them is the IMAN  South West zonal headquarter to fully kick -start  our activities, which has been duly approved  by all Importers and Freight  Forwarding  Associations.  We assure you very soon we will call on you again to be part of the history of the IMAN tolls collection programme.”