Barrister Boma Owukiabo, 32- year old outspoken lawyer and activist, is seeking to represent the people of Port Harcourt Local Government Area (PHALGA) Constituency 2 in the Rivers State House of Assembly on the platform of  Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party (ANDP). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, she speaks on her programmes and other issues. Excerpts : Why are you passionate about being a lawmaker in the Rivers State House of Assembly? My name is Boma Ruth Owukiabo, and I am a 32-year-old legal practitioner from  PHALGA Constituency 2. I am in this race because I believe that PHALGA Constituency 2 needs a candidate who is competent, committed and compassionate. It is with much humility that I humbly offer myself to serve our constituency in the Rivers State House of Assembly. Since you began your campaign, what is the level of acceptance from your constituents? My message was well received by the people. Both men, women and especially the youth believe I have what it takes to be their representative in the Rivers State House of Assembly. The truth is that the people of PHALGA Constituency 2 need quality representation. Our mandate resonated well with them, hence the reception was overwhelming. So, what are your plans for your constituents if elected ? I have condensed my plans and actions into four succinct areas should I be given the mandate and trust to serve our constituency. The first is empowerment. If elected, I will partner with Governmental and Non-Governmental Organisations to train and provide micro-credit scheme for the youth and people in PHALGA Constituency 2, who wish to start up their Small and Medium Enterprise. There will be free vocational trainings for anyone who wishes to learn a new skill or trade in the constituency. In the area of infrastructure,  if elected, I will ensure development comes to our constituency by sponsoring bills that will ensure we get a fair share of democracy. Also, I will ensure our public and social amenities like schools, markets, clinics, libraries and recreation centres are not only in excellent condition, but that they serve our people well. I also want to ensure equality for everyone no matter their tribe, religious or gender. If elected, I will create equal opportunities for all in our constituency .  Also, there will be equal access to funding opportunities, resources and valuable information. I will pursue an all-inclusive agenda such that no one will be left out in the decision making and implementation processes Lastly,  If  elected, I will make myself accountable to the people of the PHALGA Constituency 2. I will also hold regular Town Hall meetings to enable our people suggest ways they think I and my party can best represent them. I promise that if I am voted under the auspices of the Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party (ANDP), I will be true to my promises. To the youth and people of the great PHALGA Constituency 2, I say ‘YES WE CAN’ because it is our time. Together we can and we will make a difference. Do you think you have what it takes to dislodge the candidate of the PDP which is the ruling party in the state? It’s up to the people to decide that at the polls, but of course I have absolute confidence in the electoral process and I’m confident going to the polls because the people have seen me as a viable alternative and the grace of God that makes all things possible, will make it possible. How do you think the issue of violence which is synonymous with Rivers Politics can be curtailed? Violence is widespread in an environment where unfairness thrives. Quality governance will always be the bedrock of stability in any polity. What is your admonition for women who are shying away from politics? My  call to any woman shying away from politics is that, she has to be true to her conscience and stand to be counted among those who stood up for what they believed in. Do you see Governor Nyesom Wike winning his re-election bid? I will leave that to the people of Rivers State to decide at the polls this Saturday.