BENIN – No fewer than 2,500 Edo indigents, on Friday benefited from a free eye screenings programme organised by the Voice of Freedom Ministries International, Benin City. The event was to mark the end of Freedom 2019 Convention of the church. The church also screened people for various ailments while also giving grants to 18 persons. Speaking during the programme, the presiding Bishop of Voice of Freedom Ministries Intl, Abraham Chigbundu said it is part of the church’s social responsibility programme to help those who are in need. Chigbundu said health is very important and that that is the reason the church has placed premium on the wellbeing of its members and that of the members of the society. The vision bearer of the church further urged members of the church to always go for a regular checkup while believing in God for perfect healing. Also speaking, one of the members of the organising committee, Mr. Sunday Idemudia thanked the church for organising the health programme which according to him will go a long way to ameliorate the plights of the indigents in the society, while calling on other well-meaning Nigerians to emulate same and show kindness to the less privilege around them. Aiteo Clarifies Nembe Creek Fire Incident Aiteo Group has clarified the fire incident that occurred in Nembe Creek Well 7, behind mile 1 Community in Bayelsa state. The company in a statement, said it was able to put out the fire. “Despite initial challenges, our operations teams were able to access the well head area when the fire had completely died down on early hours of 2nd March.” “Preliminary investigations confirm that there were no fatalities; human incidents or damage to community property. All the wells and facilities in the immediate vicinity have been inspected and secured. This incident did not occur at or involve any part of the 97 kilometre pipeline, Nembe Creek Trunk Line (NCTL) or other pipelines. It is important to note that prior to this incident, all facilities have been shut down since 28 of February 2019 due to NCTL outage. Accordingly, any account suggesting that this incident arose from or affected any pipelines is wholly inaccurate and misleading,” the statement read.