Lagos – Residents of Ita-Faji area of Lagos, where a four-storey building housing a school, residential rooms and commercial shops collapsed on Wednesday, disclosed that the Landlord and the management of the school have, on three occasions, defied quits issued by the state government. The collapsed building on Massey Street in the heart of Lagos Island came at about 10 in the morning burying several numbers of pupils of Cohen Nursery and Primary School and occupiers alive. A resident of the area and an Elder in the community, Haeuna Eletu, told Daily Independent that the building had been on three occasions for demolition by authority of Lagos State Government and quits issued thereafter. He stated that the family and patriarch, whose name he did not disclose, had on three occasions, defied the quit order by working their ways through. Another resident of Apatira, an adjoining Street said the staircase leading to the third floor and the pent house often used by the school was rickety and unbefitting of a building of such height. He said, “I have a sister who works within the building. On several occasions I had to pay her visit,  I wondered why parent enrolled their children in such trap called a building”. At least 45 pupils, including 10 dead bodies, had been pulled out of the rubble as at Wednesday evening, according to the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA). As at the time of this report, efforts were still ongoing at the LASEMA, Lagos Fire Service and Red Cross intensified efforts as they combed the debris in search of other that might still be trapped in the rubble. Ohen Nursery and Primary School occupied the first and second floors of the collapsed building while residents live on the ground floor. Upon the collapse of the building, many young men in the neighborhood rushed to the scene and were able to rescue few pupils before the arrival of LASEMA officials and other rescue teams. The Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, who arrived at exactly 2:45pm, said from the briefing he got from the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency boss, 25 bodies have been rescued so far. Ambode said, “I’ve been briefed that the building is a residential building accommodating an illegal school on the second floor. “The rescue team are fully in charge and they will continue with the rescue operation. But I appeal to people to give the rescue workers a chance to save more lives.” True to the observation of residents that there are a couple of houses in the neighbourhood that could give in to a little pressure, the governor  said the state government would conduct an integrity test on buildings around the area and demolish any that fails the test. At about 4.30 p.m, one lifeless body, two unconscious pupils and a woman believed to be a resident in the building, were brought out from the rubble. Meanwhile, Lagos state government has assured the public, especially parents and guardians, that top rescue operation is ongoing to ensure the safety and rescue of the trapped pupils and staff of the school. Deputy governor, Dr. Idiat Adebule, who was forced to abandon her official engagement to visit the victims at the Lagos General Hospital, Marina urged parents to remain calm and be prayerful as top rescue operation has been put in place by the state government  to ensure the rescue of all trapped victims in the collapse building. The deputy governor urged parents who were anxious to see their wards to allow medical doctors and government rescue team to do their work in attending promptly to the injured and protecting the lives of the victims. While commiserating with the families of the affected pupils, Adebule assured that the state government would do it’s best to ensure that best medical attention is given to those that have been rescued so far,  while efforts will be intensified to bring out safely other pupils and staff that are still trapped  . The deputy governor, who stated that it was too early to give the numbers of the casualty as  at the time of filing this report, assured that LASG will issue official information on the tragic incident  in no distance time.