Francesco Pasti Executive Summary Providers of the Mobile Money services are attracting new investments and forming strategic partnerships, leveraging data and innovative financial technologies, and developing robust and interoperable payments systems to diversify their revenue, product offerings and customer base. In 2018, following a decade of incredible growth, the mobile money industry is still getting the fundamentals right. Mobile money accounts continue to provide a gateway to life-enhancing services, such as healthcare, education, financial services, employment and social protections, which are reaching customers who have traditionally been underserved by the financial system. Many industry players have reached scale, and account registrations, activity rates and transaction values continue to grow steadily. While cash-in and cash-out transactions still represented the majority of mobile money flows in 2018, digital transactions grew at twice the rate, driven largely by bill payments and bulk disbursements. Successful providers are now looking to strengthen their value proposition with a full suite of use cases that serve diverse customer needs. This shift towards a ‘payments as a platform’ approach is at the heart of the industry’s new direction. This year’s State of the Industry Report looks at how providers are navigating this dynamic and shifting ecosystem, which was shaped by four key trends in 2018: An enhanced customer experience. 2018 saw a dramatic increase in smartphone adoption in emerging markets, unlocking access to a broader customer base and allowing providers to offer a wider range of financial products and services through user-friendly apps. Interoperability also continued to be a strategic priority for the industry, not only to increase the utility of mobile money for users, but also to allow increasingly important use cases to scale up faster. The main drivers of digital growth in 2018 were bulk disbursements and bill payments — a signal that mobile money providers are becoming strong partners for enterprises. Diversification of the financial services landscape: While large MNO groups still dominate Africa’s mobile money ecosystem, in Asia, fintechs and tech giants have entered the payments space and developed a range of customer-centric use cases, from transportation to food, medical and financial services, and amassed a vast number of partners, including financial institutions. Mobile money providers in both Asia and Latin America, including fintech players, are driving growth in the mobile payment ecosystem, and expanding from e-commerce to offer financial services such as credit. Increasingly complex regulation: As the number of players in the digital financial services ecosystem grows exponentially, regulation is becoming increasingly complex. Five main themes dominated the mobile money regulatory landscape in 2018: taxation, KYC requirements, cross-border remittances, national financial inclusion strategies and data protection. These developments call for a more nuanced evaluation of regulatory frameworks and collaboration between providers and regulators to achieve the mutual aim of expanding mobile money services. Expansion of the mobile money value proposition: In our 2018 Global Adoption Survey, close to 80 per cent of providers reported that most of their revenues are driven by customer fees. Many providers are now seeking to strengthen their value proposition with a ‘payments as a platform’model. This connects consumers and businesses with a range of third-party services to meet their evolving needs, from enterprise solutions for micro-,small- and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) to e-commerce, credit, savings and insurance. It was not only these trends that captured our attention in 2018. Other compelling developments include reforms in Africa’s three most populated countries, Nigeria, Ethiopia and Egypt, which we expect to spark a wave of adoption which could lead to over 110 million new mobile money accounts in the next five years. Mobile money continues to play a vital role in financial inclusion. Globally, around 1.7 billion people still lack access to safe, reliable and convenient financial services. However, 31 emerging markets have seen an impressive increase in financial inclusion rates, which can be attributed to simultaneous growth in active mobile money use. Although much work remains to be done in closing the mobile money gender gap, there is evidence from the 2017 Global Findex that the mobile money gender gap has narrowed in 17 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and in one country in Latin America (Bolivia). Our Global Adoption Survey data revealed a strong positive correlation between the percentage of female agents in a provider’s network and female customers. In this report, we take a closer look at these trends and unfolding industry stories. The full findings of this year’s State of the Industry Report on Mobile Money are based on the analysis of data collected through the GSMA’s Annual Global Adoption Survey. Unlocking Future Growth: Africa’s Mobile Money Sleeping Giants In a growing number of countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, a traditional stronghold of mobile money, over 60 per cent of the adult population has a mobile money account. While providers in these countries are still driving growth in registered accounts, rates will slow as the majority of the population gains access to mobile money. However, there is still a tremendous opportunity to unlock growth and increase financial inclusion in the continent’s mobile money sleeping giants: Nigeria, Ethiopia and Egypt. Home to a combined adult population of over 242 million,9 Africa’s three most populated countries have had limited availability of mobile money services and low rates of financial inclusion. The reasons for this vary. In Nigeria and Egypt, regulatory frameworks have allowed few players to offer mobile money services, resulting in lower levels of investment and fewer innovative products and services. In Ethiopia, a strictly regulated telco, restrictions on competition, lack of internet connectivity, and low levels of consumer trust and financial literacy have created barriers to uptake and market entry. The unfavourable market conditions in these countries are reflected in their low scores on the GSMA’s Mobile Money Regulatory Index. These scores are due to factors such as restrictive or unclear legal frameworks, lack of flexibility and clarity around innovation and investment, and disproportionate Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements. In 2018, regulatory reforms were introduced in Nigeria and Egypt to harness the potential of mobile money to drive financial inclusion, and reforms and an ambitious financial inclusion strategy in Ethiopia have been attracting the attention of both MNOs and non-MNO-led players. Despite the challenges to overcome, we anticipate that these reforms could spark a wave of adoption in these three countries —over 110 million new mobile money accounts in the next five years — and help to achieve the financial inclusion targets set out in their respective national financial inclusion strategies. Conclusion The enduring strength of the agent network, an increased focus on interoperability and widespread access to digital tools such as smartphones will help to further ease this transition. The merchant network will also become increasingly important as mobile money providers connect customers to MSMEs, both retail and online. Smartphones will be a key enabler of this model as they provide an enhanced user experience and open access to a wider range of financial products and services through third-party apps. In countries where feature phones are still the primary channel for accessing mobile money, however, providers will need to determine how to offer the core benefits of the platform model to this enduring customer segment. As in previous years, regulation designed to enable low-cost services for the financially excluded has proven essential to the success of mobile money. There were some encouraging trends in financial services regulation in 2018 as national financial inclusion strategies gained momentum and collaborative sub-regional initiatives worked to create integrated payments systems. However, two major regulatory risks to financial inclusion emerged in 2018: higher taxation of the mobile industry across Sub-Saharan Africa and the global emergence of potentially restrictive data protection requirements. Ultimately, regulation should help to build consumer confidence in engaging with digital services without creating significant additional costs for service providers. Communication and collaboration between mobile money providers and regulators will be vital to strike the right balance between service provision and cost. As the ‘payments as a platform’ approach takes flight, providers will be able to glean insights from new usage patterns and data, tap into new revenue sources and concentrate on building a robust platform and innovative ecosystem. It will be critical that commercial use of this data is balanced with concerns about data privacy, data security, fraud prevention, regulatory compliance and consumer trust. For any new product or service, providers should establish clear and open processes and rules for data security, storage, consent, minimisation, anonymisation and sharing. Improving access to credit for the underserved also raises questions about responsible lending, which will need to be addressed. Namely, how can lenders ensure that more widespread access to credit does not lead to an increase in over-indebtedness? And how can financial education, by lenders, mobile money providers, regulatory authorities and the wider ecosystem, help to address this? Laying the groundwork for the financial services ecosystem to grow around the mobile money platform is essential, but the ‘payments as a platform’ approach is not only about incorporating more partners and third parties. It is also about deepening engagement with individuals and businesses through a smooth end-to-end experience that ultimately encourages greater uptake and use of mobile financial services moving us closer toward the end goal of universal financial inclusion. The GSMA represents the interests of mobile operators worldwide, uniting more than 750 operators with over 350 companies in the broader mobile ecosystem, including handset and device makers, software companies, equipment providers and internet companies, as well as organisations in adjacent industry sectors. Francesco Pasti is a Senior Manager, Mobile Money Services, GSMA