The core mandate of the committee includes providing access to financial services to 90 million Nigerians across the 774 local government areas by 2020 through the conversion of over one million airtime agents to mobile money agents. They will also collaborate with other stakeholders and engage with the government to help achieve the Central Bank of Nigeria’s 80 percent financial inclusion target by 2020. Speaking on the development, Gbenga Adebayo, Chairman of ALTON said: “The inauguration of this committee is a positive and necessary first step to achieving our goals of improving inclusion and literacy. The potential of our sector’s participation in these efforts is enormous. The telecommunications subscribers’ database is the most comprehensive; our coverage is vast and this speaks to the potential that we have as a group to truly contribute to solving some of the challenges that have been faced so far.” The committee Chaired by the Chairman of ALTON, had its members which include Jane Amadi, Business Development Manager at MTN Nigeria; Oladokun Oye, Head of Direct Sales, Mobile Financial Services and Digital Services at Airtel; Samuel Akinsola, Sales Support and Performance Analysis Manager at ntel; Olaseun Omotosho, Head of Mobile Financial Service at 9Mobile; and Esaie Diei, Mobile Money Financial Business Manager at Globacom. Other members are Ismaila Suhailu (ntel), Chidozie Arinze (9Mobile), Oluwatosin Cole (Globacom) and Gbolahan Awonuga, Head of Operations at ALTON. The committee was expected to meet fortnightly over the coming months to deliver on its mandate. “We commend the Federal Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria for the recently released exposure guidelines for Payment Services Bank (PSB) License, a welcome development that will play a critical role in accelerating financial inclusion,” Adebayo said. Formed in 2000 with the objective of promoting growth in the telecommunication sector, ALTON is an industry body for all telecommunication companies and those providing subsidiary services to telecommunication service providers in Nigeria. Its members include Spectranet, MainOne, Smile, Vodacom, ATC Nigeria, IHS Towers, Interconnect ClearingHouse Nigeria and Communication Network Support Services Limited. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the National InterBank Settlement System (NIBSS) representatives of Commercial Banks of Nigeria and experts on Financials and Banking from the African Continent converged last year to discuss a matter of topical importance with a thematic focus on: “Innovative Financial Services for the Vast Unserved Segments.” The event was filled with insightful and in-depth presentations on what Financial Inclusion is and, its importance to the social-economic development of Nigeria. Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, while delivering the keynote address through Bashir Idris, Deputy Director, Policy, Competition & Economic Analysis of the Commission, argued that NCC’s commitment towards financial inclusion is evident through the participation and collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and major relevant stakeholders. “One of the major driving force of the Commission is to provide Universal Access, especially to the underserved and unserved parts of the country. Invariably, this has a link with the overall objective of the National Financial Inclusion Policy,” Danbatta re-emphasised. The NCC Boss disclosed that NCC, being the telecoms regulator, is mandated to ensure the provision of infrastructure that will enable the flow of other services. In cognizance of the importance of Financial Inclusion, the NCC has established a Desk in the Policy, competition & Economic Analysis (PCEA) Department to anchor and interface with the CBN and other stakeholders in the digital financial ecosystem. Also realising the importance of Broadband as an indispensable resource for the actualisation of Financial Inclusion and the digitisation of the socio-economy of Nigeria, the NCC is Licensing 7 Infracos to provide Broadband penetration for accessibility at affordable rates. So far, 5 Infracos have been licensed. This and other support services provided by the Universal Service Provision Fund Department of NCC (USPF) to unserved and underserved areas will help close the Communication gaps in existence. Prof. Danbatta reiterated the Commission’s stand and quest for a robust infrastructure that will continue to support innovative technologies/ services that will enhance the pursuit of excellence and development in all sectors of the Nigerian economy. In pursuance of the dream, MTN Group last year set its sights on the fast-growing banking and financial services sector and disclosed plans to acquire a banking license to operate its payment services in Nigeria. Nigeria has become one of Africa’s major centre for the mobile money and financial services market which many foreign investors have begun to take advantage of. Speaking at a telecoms conference in Cape Town, South Africa then, Rob Shuter,  MTN’s Chief Executive Officer,  disclosed that the group will put in an application to acquire an independent banking license in Nigeria in December and should launch the bank in the second quarter of 2019. The MTN CEO further stated, “And if all goes according to plan, we will also be launching mobile money in Nigeria probably around Q2 of 2019.” The banking license which is a derivative of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to drive financial inclusion in the country by 2020 has been confirmed by CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele. The CBN guidelines addressed to telcos, mobile money operators, banking agents, and the NCC for the payment service banks, as at October 2018, include a N2 million non-refundable license fee and N5 billion capital base. Speaking with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Mike Ezeh, the Managing Director of Crane Securities Limited, said the involvement of telecoms operators is a welcome development which if the government will harness properly, will boost the financial industry across the country. According to Ezeh, “There is no doubt that the telecoms service being embraced by many Nigerians for financial transactions is a plus to the country because it will make the financial inclusion initiative a success story. However, their operations should be well monitored so that they can deliver efficient and effective services. “Of course, the banks will be threatened by the participation of telecoms operators in the financial sector. But there is nothing they can do about that. All they need to do is to synergise to achieve the set goal of the government. Again, the good thing is that the development will spur the banks into ingenuity and innovation.” Ezeh, however, called on the government to put in place that will further boost the financial inclusion scheme so that the unbaked and under-banked can be included in the scheme. He said attention should not only be focused on the urban areas but more in the rural areas where the need for financial inclusion is high. On his part, Mr. Deolu Ogunbanjo, the president of National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers (NATCOMS), said the role of telecoms services cannot be left with only voice service. He said their operations will definitely have impact in almost all other sectors of the economy, including the banking the financial industry. “The telcos play significant roles in the financial industry because the banks ride on their platforms. The way M-pesa works in Kenya is quite commendable. The service has permeated every nook and cranny of Kenya. Nigeria can learn from them and do likewise,” Ogunbanjo said.