ABUJA – The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) has criticised the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, over his insistence not to inaugurate the boards of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), and other Federal Government agencies under it, saying the development was stifling their performance. According to NECA which represents interest of all employers in Nigeria, failure to inaugurate the board members several months after they were appointed, contravenes the law establishing such agencies, noting that such action was inimical to the growth and performance of the affected agencies. Director-General of NECA, Timothy Olawale, who criticised the development in a statement yesterday, lamented that more than one year after President Muhammadu Buhari pronounced membership of the boards, some recalcitrant Ministers have remained defiant to the directive of the President without any repercussion. To avoid eroding the confidence that had been built over the years in the institutions by Nigerians, the NECA Scribe stated the implication of total absence of governance framework, which is to regulate the activities of the agencies, three and half years down the line, after dissolution of previous boards. He said it was unfortunate especially for a government that prides itself in the rule of law. He advised that government should ensure and encourage the practice of good corporate governance at all levels, saying the Acts establishing the various agencies had provided for the composition of the board members and in some instance ‘institutional representatives’ to the boards are mentioned. Recall that at the height of pressures on the Minister of Labour and Employment, to inaugurate the boards or face expulsion from the All Progressives Congress (APC) he had in July 2018 promised that the board of the NSITF would be inaugurated within weeks. Till date, his promise has failed to come to pass. He had also assured that the board would be inaugurated in order to assist the implementation Committee of the audit committee he set up to study financial infractions in the Fund. Ngige had announced that the implementation committee of the audit report, which had since been established by him to effect the various policy recommendations that are aimed at sanitizing and strengthening the weak internal audit system of the Fund. The Federal Government had in August 2017 nominated former General Secretary of NUPENG, Frank Kokori as the Chair of the board with Vice President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Peters Adeyemi, Treasurer of NLC, Khaleel Ibrahim, representatives of Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Managing Director of NSITF and the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment who represents the Ministry on the board as members. Kokori had in a public forum, while commending President Muhammadu Buhari for recognising June 12 as the official democracy day in Nigeria, reported the matter to the presidency.