LAGOS – The just concluded 2019 general election has been described as the worst in the history of elections in Nigeria Dr. Adegbola Dominic, Lagos state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in an exclusive interview with Daily Independent on Thursday said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) demonstrated serious incompetence in the management of the electoral process. While condemning the military for its role in the elections in Rivers, he also flayed INEC for the declaration of results in states regarded as PDP strongholds as inconclusive saying it is an attempt to manipulate the results in favour of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He also blamed President Muhammadu Buhari for failing to act as the Commander-in- Chief of the Armed Forces in checkmating the excesses of the military in the elections. “ It is far worse than the 2015 elections. We’ve never had any election like this before in the history of this country. There were irregularities in the 2015 elections but obviously, this one is worse. Most of the results have been predetermined even before the election”. “INEC has a set of rules for a particular area and another set of rules for other areas. Card readers were mandatory in most of the Southern states whereas it was mostly abandoned in the core Northern states. We have reports of results being written and handed over to INEC for announcement, while the Electoral Officers simply adopted it and signed under duress”. “Look at the number of killings that we have witnessed in this election, especially in Rivers as if we are in a war zone. We have situations where military officers invaded election venues and collation centres, arresting and killing civilians, destroying ballot papers as well as other electoral materials”. “These are soldiers in uniforms deployed by the Armed Forces and President Muhammadu Buhari by virtue of his position is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. So, in clear terms, he deployed these soldiers there to cause this mayhem. To me, this is un acceptable in these modern times”. Dominic who said Nigeria is fast becoming a fascist state also called for the cancelation of results in some states where a winner is already declared by INEC for irregularities. “The elections should be totally cancelled in some of the states. In some places, the results announced are more than that of accredited voters and that was accepted by INEC. So, what kind of election is that?” “ Whereas in some areas, even when the accreditation is okay and voting commenced peacefully, just because the validly cancelled votes are more than the difference in the figures, the elections were declared inconclusive and in some places, suspended”. “In Rivers state for instance, the election went well except for few places. The results are already there. All INEC need to do is to collate the results brought from the polling booths and announce. Why do they have to suspend the elections? Because it didn’t favour the powers that be and it didn’t go the way they wanted it, they decided to send in the military to disrupt the collation of results”. “It is very unfortunate and to me, this is the worst election conducted since 1999. It has never been this bad. We are heading for a fascist regime now” he said.