Following the death of Yobe State House of Assembly Deputy Speaker, the late Dr. Garba Ibrahim Kurmi, representing Fika constituency, the legislature at its Tuesday sitting elected a new deputy speaker, Saidu Baba, representing Nangere constituency. Kurmi died on February 19th 2019 following a brief illness at Yobe State Teaching Hospital, Damaturu. Baba’s emergence was rectified after his nomination by  Mohammed Isa Bello Danchuwa of Mamudo constituency and seconded by Ahmed Mirwa of Nguru II constituency. The new deputy speaker has since been sworn-in by the clerk of the House, Ishaku Usman Mohammed. Tuesday’s sitting was presided by Speaker Zanna Ali Machina. March 9 Polls: Army Arrest 24 Suspects For Snatching Ballot Boxes- Spokesman The Nigerian Army said it arrested no fewer than 24 suspects in connection with electoral offences during the Saturday governorship and House Assembly elections in Imo, Abia and Cross River states. Giving a breakdown of the suspects in a statement on Tuesday, Col. Sagir Musa, the army spokesman, said 15 were arrested in Abia. Musa said of the 15 suspects, five were political thugs, arrested at Lokpanta while on their way to disrupt election at Lekwesi community. The army spokesman said camouflage trousers, daggers and various charms were recovered from them. He said the other six suspects were arrested at Osisioma junction while they were conveying already thumb printed ballot papers in a vehicle. “On questioning, he, Enwereji, claimed the ballot papers were specimens for campaign,’’ he said. According to Musa, investigation was on to ascertain the culpability of the suspects. Still in Abia, Musa said troops also rescued an INEC staff abducted by hoodlums at Ohafia Technical College in Anna village. He said that four suspects were arrested in connection with the case while efforts were on to apprehend other fleeing members of the gang. Musa said that the four suspects had been handed over to the police for further action. In Imo, the army spokesman said four suspected fake soldiers in military uniform (woodland camouflage wa nabbed around Everyday Super Market in Owerri. He said the suspects were “escorting a prominent female politician in a political party vehicle’’ at the time of arrest. Musa said troops also intercepted and arrested suspected ballot box snatchers at Air Force junction near Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo during the election. He said that on sighting the troops, the suspects abandoned their vehicle and ran into the bush. “Items recovered include one Sienna bus, one pump action gun with 11 live cartridge, voter cards and assorted ATMs bearing different names.’’ Musa said in Cross River, troops on patrol around power plant substation, Odukpani Local Government Area rescued one Mr Authur Nkama, kidnapped at Ikot Ansa in Calabar Municipal Area Council.