Abuja – With an industry estimated $16 billion possible annual turnover to be made from video on demand, VOD, stakeholders in Nollywood, Nigeria’s movie industry have demanded the rechannelling of movie distribution towards exploiting the new market, Saturday INDEPENDENT has been told. The detail of this new business thinking emanated from a one-day conference on ‘Distribution and Regulation on Emerging New Markets’ put together by the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), yesterday in Abuja. The participants also identified dangers to profit making in the new venture in the areas of poor classification and regulation, the menace of piracy and poor infrastructural backbone to support exploitation of the market. VOD is a new movie distribution network through ICT. Global movie distribution network like Neflix and Amazon have reaped immense box office from VOD. “The big six movie houses in Hollywood, including 20th Century Fox and others combined, did not gross as much as what Neflix and Amazon made last year,” explained Aisha Halilu, movie producer with Bespoke Consultant Limited. But she pointed out that the infrastructure to support Neflix streaming online in Nigeria is still poor. “You need a 5G network to successful stream a HD video. That can be a problem for us in Nigeria where we still operate at 4G,” she said. But with the size of Nigeria’s movie market comparative to the sub region’s, the country can make a leap if stakeholders come together to exploit the market. Nigeria currently leads in cinematic movie distribution in the West Africa subregion. For instance, in terms of cinemas compliant with DCI in West Africa, Nigeria has over 40 viewing sites, 151 viewing screens with 17, 553 seats. Following closely is Ghana; with four sites, 17 screens and just 330 seats. Given these data, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, under whose purview the media industry regulations falls, said there is need to invest in harnessing the new markets. “Considering the status of the Nigerian film industry in the world, we should be aiming to have a very active distribution network. In the emerging markets, there are lots of possibilities and opportunities that the new digital technology has provided to the film Industry in terms of distribution opportunities for networking and collaboration with content producers and supply chains to create new experiences,” explained Grace Isu-Gakpe, permanent secretary, Ministry of Information and Culture, on behalf of her principal, Lai Mohammed, the minister. Stakeholders also explained, too, challenges that may Hubble migration into the market. There is the problem of piracy and poor classification of movies. But explaining on this, executive director, NFVCB, Alhaji Adedayo Thomas, says that its collaboration with De La Rue would reduce, drastically the incidents of movie piracy in the country. The ED made the disclosure at a conference on Distribution and Regulation in Emerging Markets, today in Abuja. According to Thomas, the board is working towards producing movie censors seal\label. “The labels are meant to distinguish every film and video that is classified by the NFVCB from the ones which are not classified and approved,” stated the NFVCB boss. According to him, the new seal will have several security features meant to inhibit piracy. It cannot be manipulated or forged. “While it will aid the board in differentiating between classified and unclassified films, it will also reduce incident of piracy to a large extent,” stated Alhaji Thomas. The board would be partnered by De La Rue, a global network seasoned in making security documents. De La Rue’s activities spans 200 years.