The Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) has vowed not to pay the new registration fees to the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC). Dr. Collins Farinto, the Group’s Vice President, who made the resolution of the association known in Lagos, stressed that members cannot afford to pay fees to  NSC as well as pay to the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN). “The clearing agents’ registration fee initiated by the NSC negated the Federal Government’s policy on the Ease of Doing Business at ports”, Farinto said, adding that such collection by the Council would negate the vision of Government on ‘Ease of Doing Business.’ “The Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarders in Nigeria (CRFFN) Act empowers only CRFFN to regulate and collect registration fees from freight forwarders in the industry. “Meanwhile the CRFFN will soon commence collection of Practitioners Operating Fees (POF) and still expect freight forwarders to also pay their annual subscriptions fees. “The question is, what is the meaning of registration fees to be collected by the Nigerian Shippers’ Council?,” Farinto queried, noting that the NSC had deviated from its primary duty of protecting the interest of Nigerian shippers, by ensuring that stakeholders were not given arbitrary and illegitimate charges.” Farinto, who said that ANLCA was still expecting the NSC to address the hardship its members were going through in the industry has therefore, urged the Executive Secretary of the NSC, Mr Hassan Bello to intervene and direct his officers to discontinue the demand for registration fees. It would be recalled that the NSC on February 27 announced a 50 per cent cut on the registration fees it recently introduced for operators in the maritime sector. The NSC proposed the fees after consultations with relevant stakeholders. The breakdown shows that shipping line agencies and seaport terminal operators would now pay N50,000 down from N100,000, while inland container depot operators would pay N25,000 instead of N50,000. Warehouse operators, off dock terminal operators, stevedoring companies and cargo consolidators were expected to pay N10,000 instead of N20,000; while freight forwarders, clearing agents and haulage firms are to N5,000 instead of N10,000. Shippers associations’ fee was left at N5,000. Bello had explained that the fees were one-off payment that would help the government in policy formulation and also rid the sector of quacks.