LAGOS – Gernot Rohr, Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser, will begin his preparation for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations without his influential midfielder and captain, Mikel John Obi. Also missing from the list of 23 players he invited for the last Nations Cup qualifier against Seychelles and friendly against Egypt is Kelechi Iheanacho, who has been an integral part of the team since the qualifiers for the 2018 World Cup kicked off in Ndola, Zambia in 2016. When Rohr released the list of 23 players for the games on Monday, these players were missing raising eyebrows about Mikel’s possibility of returning to the team he last played for at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. Why eyebrows are been raised is because the 31-year-old, has been impressive at English championship club, Middleborough. Despite public assurances from Rohr that Mikel would make a return, the player has been left out of the 23-man squad for the home fixtures in Asaba on Friday, March 22 and Tuesday, March 26 respectively. Rohr, however, handed maiden call-ups to uncapped Denmark-based striker, Paul Onuachu and under-20 defender, Valentine Ozornwafor, while there is a recall for former U-17 World Cup winner, Victor Osimhen. Struggling Leicester City striker, Iheanacho has been overlooked after failing to score a goal for club or country since September, but England-based quintet of Wilfred Ndidi, Alex Iwobi, Leon Balogun, Semi Ajayi and Oghenekaro Etebo are included. Also present is the experienced quartet of Odion Ighalo, joint-top scorer in qualifying with six goals, Troost-Ekong, Ahmed Musa and John Ogu. Others called to camp are goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (Anorthosis Famagusta, Cyprus); Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Katsina United); Daniel Akpeyi (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa). Others are Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy); Abdullahi Shehu (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Chidozie Awaziem (Caykur Rizespor, Turkey); William Ekong (Udinese FC, Italy); Jamilu Collins (SC Padeborn 07, Germany), all defenders. The forwards include Henry Onyekuru (Galatasaray SK, Turkey); and Samuel Kalu (Girondins Bordeaux, France). The three-time African champions confront Seychelles in a largely-ceremonial session at the Stephen Keshi Stadium on Friday, March 22, starting from 4pm, and then tackle the Pharaohs of Egypt at the same venue in a prestige international friendly four days later. All invited players, alongside technical and backroom crew, are to report in the Delta State capital on Monday, March 18, 2019. Champions in 2013, Nigeria have already secured qualification for this year’s tournament in Egypt after failing to reach back-to-back events in 2015 and 2017.