Tony Ezimakor, Samuel Ogidan Abuja – A head of tomorrow’s governorship and state House of Assembly elections,  Mohammed Adamu, acting Inspector-General of Police, has warned intending violators of the electoral process of severe consequences, stating resolve of the security agencies to come down hard on thugs, ballot box snatchers and riggers bent on disrupting the election. The police chief read the riot act while addressing a meeting of Inter-agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES), Thursday in Abuja. While noting the largely peaceful conduct of the presidential and National Assembly polls penultimate week, he noted hitches that resulted in needless loss of lives, vowing that perpetrators of such crimes would not have their way this time. “We sat down with other security agencies and agreed and already put in place an improved security for the next election. So, every Nigerian is encouraged to come out and cast his or her vote on the election day. “Both domestic and foreign observers are encouraged to come out and observe. This also includes the journalists. INEC staff are also encouraged to perform their duties without fear of any molestation. Electoral materials will be safeguarded. “It is going to be very very tough for those that disrupted the process last time in some of the states. They will never get the opportunity to disrupt the process again. If you attempt to do that, there will be consequences. It is better for you to stay at home than to come out to disrupt the process. Don’t attempt because we have known your modus operandi, and we are ready for you”, he said. The National Security Adviser (NSA) represented by Sanusi Galadima also disclosed that the NSA has deployed a large pool of secret personnel across the states to enhance the peaceful conduct of the election, as he commended the security agencies for their dogged commitment to a secured electoral process across the states. Earlier in his address, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, INEC Chairman, reminded the security agencies of citizens’ demand for an effective, non-intrusive protection before, during and shortly after the election, even as he warned those that coerce its personnel to declare result in their favour that they will not be issued certificate of return. Prof. Yakubu while acknowledging the efforts of the security agencies during the concluded presidential and National Assembly polls, regretted the spate of attacks, intimidation of its personnel, some of who were abducted and forced to declare result favourable to their abductors. While warning that outright subversion of the regulation will not be condoned, he said INEC will not reward bad behaviour by issuing certificates of return to perpetrators of such acts. “The commission will not tolerate the act of holding our officials hostage and forcing them to declare winners under duress. Where such occurs, the commission will not reward bad behaviour by issuing them certificates of return”, he said. It would be recalled that the state returning officer in Owerri, Imo State, alleged that he declared the result of Orlu Senatorial zone under duress to favour the governor of Imo, Rochas Okorocha. The same was also claimed in Abia North Senatorial district where former governor of that state, Chief Orji Uzor Kalu, emerged. “In the course of securing the elections, the security agencies, electoral officials and innocent Nigerians have suffered needless attacks resulting in casualties including deaths and the loss of personal and official properties. “On behalf of the commission, I extend our deepest condolence to the families of those who lost their lives, including personnel of the security agencies. We are glad that the police have made several arrests and investigation is ongoing. I wish to assure Nigerians that the commission will work closely with the police to ensure the diligent prosecution of all violators of our electoral laws. “Citizens are asking for effective but non-intrusive protection before, during and immediately after the elections in which their rights are respected and their choices safeguarded”, he said. Giving assurance that polls will open at 8:00a.m in all polling units across the states, he disclosed that the smart card readers have been reconfigured to work seamlessly, insisting that its use is mandatory. On the already declared National Assembly results, the INEC chairman disclosed that the commission will begin issuance of certificate of returns to senators and winners of the federal house effective Thursday next week at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. PDP Cautions Buratai Over Deployment Of Soldiers For Election The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday drew the attention of Nigerians to the implication of deploying soldiers for election duties. The party, which cautioned the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, over the deployment, pointed out that it had already led to the commission of crimes against humanity during polls. The party’s warning is coming a day after the military reportedly undertook a mass arrest of political figures in Rivers State ahead of the governorship and state Assembly polls. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “This usurpation of the responsibility of the police and involvement of soldiers in the February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections led to the gruesome killing of over 30 innocent Nigerians in the Niger Delta as well as arbitrary arrest and detention of opposition figures, resulting in escalated insecurity in region. “The deployment of soldiers for the 2019 general elections, despite the extant ruling of the Supreme Court against such, is part of the grand plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to use the military to suppress opposition, instill fear in the citizenry and forcefully rig the elections. “Gen. Buratai’s outburst on Wednesday that the army will be ‘tough’ in its unconstitutional involvement in the conduct of elections, particularly in the Niger Delta, the South East and the North Central, appears to be a license to trigger-happy security agents to re-enact or even scale up their February 23 aggression against PDP figures in the March 9 governorship and state Assembly elections.” The party noted that following Gen. Buratai’s statement on Wednesday, soldiers – in the early hours of Thursday – commenced a targeted manhandling and mass arrest of PDP leaders in Delta, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, and Bayelsa states. “In Rivers State, PDP leaders are being tracked down, arrested and taken to unknown destinations. “The state Commissioner of Education, Dr. Tam Gogo Jaja, who was picked up by soldiers attached to the Director General of the Buhari Campaign Organisation and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, is still being held in an unknown facility,” it said. The party alleged that compromised security agents had been hounding, arresting, and detaining PDP figures in the North Central states of Kogi, Benue, Kwara and Plateau states ahead of the March 9 elections. The party noted that the APC was pitching the military against Nigerians, not minding the collateral damage that usually occurred whenever soldiers clashed with civilians. “This is particularly given the fact that Nigerians in all PDP strongholds, spread across our country, are resolute in their resistance of any force that seeks to subvert their will at the March 9 elections. “Nigerians should call on Gen. Buratai to redirect his officers and men from participating in the March 9 election so as to avert any breakdown of law and order in any part of our country before, during, and after the March 9 elections,” the PDP said. FG Orders Closure Of Borders For Guber, State Assembly Polls Meanwhile, Lt.-Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (rtd), Minister of Interior, has ordered the closure of borders for Saturday governorship and state Assembly elections. This is with effect from Friday, March 8, at noon to Sunday, March 10, at noon. Comptroller-General, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede, announced this in a statement in Abuja on Thursday. This, he said, is to restrict movements across the borders during the election days. “The public is to take note and ensure compliance,” Babandede said. 1,066 Guber, 14,583 Assembly Candidates Battle Tomorrow In the meantime, the choice of who becomes governor in the 29 states of the federation where election holds on Saturday may have been narrowed on paper between candidates of the two leading political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the main opposition, but the fact is that at least 1,066 governorship candidates are on the ballot for the crucial state election. This is aside 14, 583 candidates who would be vying to represent their constituencies in the state Houses of Assembly. And if numbers are to be used to determine in which state the contests would be fiercest, then it has to be in Imo, the Igbo heartland, where 70 candidates have thrown their hats in the ring in the race to succeed Governor Owelle Rochas Okorocha. In that state, almost all the registered political parties are fielding candidates for the governorship race. The figure of contestants is closely shadowed by Rivers State with 64 governorship candidates, Kano (55), Sokoto (51), Delta (50), and Akwa Ibom and Lagos with 45 candidates each running for the governorship position. The states with the least number of persons showing interest in the governorship include Yobe, with just 13 candidates. Others are Katsina (18), Jigawa (19), Plateau (24), and Cross River (26). Investigation suggests that three major factors largely account for the number of persons showing interest to run the affairs of their states, among these are how buoyant the state is, the performance of the incumbent governor, and whether the governor has completed two terms. Opinions sampled show that in the case of Imo State, the controversy generated by Governor Okorocha insisting on having his son-in-law succeed him forced many to join the race. This is aside his alleged nonperformance. Rivers, Kano, Delta, Akwa Ibom and Lagos states, according to respondents sampled, are rich to sustain development and should ordinarily attract contestants who want to make name and build a future political career. Caleb Anyanwu, a political analyst, said: “If you look at the numbers, you can hazard a guess why many people would be interested in the oil rich states and Lagos and Kano for the huge IGR they generate. “The resources are there to pursue any developmental agenda you want, but for states like Yobe, Jigawa, Cross River, with limited resources, you find that the interest shown is limited, more so when some of the governors there are in their first term. “In the case of Imo, it is the governor that pushed the interest up. It appears the people are saying anybody can be better than any choice the governor is making for Imo after his eight turbulent years.” The number of governorship candidates for the states are Abia, 32; Adamawa, 29; Akwa Ibom, 45; Bauchi, 31; Benue, 33; Borno, 32; C/River, 26; Delta, 50; Ebonyi, 37; Enugu, 42; Gombe, 32; Imo, 70; Jigawa, 19; Kaduna, 38; Kano, 55; Katsina, 18; Kebbi, 31; Kwara, 35; Lagos, 45; Nasarawa, 29; Niger, 31; Ogun, 41; Oyo, 42; Plateau, 24; Rivers, 64; Sokoto, 51; Taraba, 30; Yobe, 13, and Zamfara, 42.