Awka – Dr. Paschal Agbodike, the All Progressive Grand alliance (APGA) Assembly member-elect for Ihiala 2 state constituency in the forthcoming Anambra State legislature, has said that his primary concern would be to lobby his way through in the parliament in order to attract constituency projects to the people of his constituency. Agbodike, who is the incumbent deputy majority leader and chairman House of Assembly Committee on Youths and Sports in the ongoing 6th Assembly said he was not going to the Assembly to cause confusion and rancour or to be part of any move to fight with the executive arm but to ensure that his constituency did not lack what government should provide. The lawmaker, who addressed journalists at Mbosi Ihiala council area on Monday, said his constituents gave a pass mark to his first term and it was the reason they returned for a second term in office, stressing that he was the first person in his constituency to serve two consecutive terms. He said his constituents demonstrated the faith they have in him in the over 16,000 votes they gave him in the just concluded state Assembly elections. According to him, his education foundation called Mmiri Oma Education Foundation is trending in his constituency and that more than seventy persons have benefitted from the scholarship scheme. Apart from scholarships, Agbodike disclosed further that he has instituted functional water schemes across communities in his constituency together with other community-driven projects, emphasising that he would not relent in synergising with the executive and other members of the House to provide effective representation for the people Ihiala 2 state constituency. Although he took cognizance of the fact that his constituents are remonstrating about the deplorable condition of roads in the area but assured them that with effective legislation, their infrastructure needs would be addressed. He urged them to be patient as the dividends of democracy come gradually. The lawmaker said educational improvement; youth empowerment as well as human capital development would receive priority attention in his second term. He extended gratitude to Governor Willie Obiano and the leadership of the All Progressive Grand Alliance.