The interior ministry said among them was Mufti Abdul Rauf, the brother of Masood Azhar, the leader of Jaish-e-Mohammad which claimed the February 14 suicide attack in India-administered Kashmir that triggered the current crisis.
Aftermath of the suicide attack in India-administered Kashmir on February 14, 2019.
Aftermath of the suicide attack in India-administered Kashmir on February 14, 2019. (AP)
Tuesday, March 5 Pakistan’s Interior Ministry says authorities have arrested dozens of suspects, including the brother of the leader of the outlawed Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) group that India blames for the February 14 suicide bombing in India-administered Kashmir that triggered the crisis. The interior ministry said it arrested 44 suspects. Among them was Mufti Abdul Rauf, the brother of JeM leader, Masood Azhar. The ministry said the brother was among suspects listed in a file that India gave to Pakistan over the weekend. Indian submarine warned away Pakistan’s navy says it spotted and warned an Indian submarine approaching its territorial waters in the Arabian Sea not to attempt an incursion. The navy said in a statement on Tuesday that the Indian submarine wasn’t targeted, “keeping in view Pakistan’s policy of peace” under which Islamabad wants to de-escalate tensions with New Delhi. A navy official says the warning was “communicated” to the submarine during Monday’s encounter. The submarine then moved away. He didn’t elaborate and spoke on condition of anonymity to talk to reporters. India has yet to confirm or deny the incident. Embedded video PTV World

@WorldPTV
#PakistanNavy resists Indian attempt to violate maritime zone: Spokesperson Pak Navy 1,325
11:23 PM – Mar 4, 2019
687 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Monday, March 4 Indian air force chief breaks silence on air strikes Amid confusion over the number of casualties in last week’s air strikes by India on Pakistan, the Indian air force chief said Monday they only count the targets hit and not the number of people killed. “IAF [Indian Air Force] is not in a position to clarify the number of casualties. The government will clarify that. We don’t count human casualties, we count what targets we have hit or not,” Birender Singh Dhanoa said addressing a news conference in the southern city of Coimbatore, local daily Hindustan Times reported. The remarks came a day after leader of India’s ruling right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party, Amit Shah said “over 250 terrorists” were killed in air strikes. Pakistan airspace fully reopened Pakistan fully reopened its airspace, authorities said, days after it closed its skies to all air travel, leaving thousands stranded worldwide as tensions with India soared. The decision to close the airspace came last Wednesday. Pakistan-India train service resumes The Samjhauta Express train service between Pakistan and India resumed its operations from Lahore on Monday. The announcement to resume the train service, which was suspended on February 3 due to increasing tensions between the two neighbouring countries, was made on Sunday, a day after Pakistan released an Indian Air Force pilot, arrested during a confrontation. The Samjhauta (Urdu for ‘’Agreement’’) Express train service began on July 22, 1976 under the Shimla Agreement that settled the 1971 war between the two nuclear-armed nations. The train normally runs between the two countries on Mondays and Thursdays. On the Indian side, the train runs from Delhi to Attari and on the Pakistan side, from Lahore to Wagah. Sunday, March 3 Funerals for soldiers, prisoner held in Pakistan Funerals were held for two Pakistani soldiers killed during gunfire between armies of Pakistan and India along the de facto border, Line of Control or LoC that separates disputed Kashmir. Funeral prayers were also offered for Shakir Ullah, a Pakistani prisoner who was stoned to death by inmates in an Indian jail, in northern Pakistan’s Sialkot city, Geo TV reported. India handed over his body to Pakistan on Saturday at the same Wagah border where Pakistan freed an Indian pilot downed and captured by Pakistan last week. Meanwhile, residents near LoC said it was quiet overnight, the first lull since a dangerous escalation last week bringing the two nuclear-armed rivals close to full-out war. May hails Khan for de-escalation Prime Minister Imran Khan had a telephone conversation with UK’s Prime Minister Theresa May, in which Khan apprised May of Pakistan’s perspective on the developments since the Kashmir suicide bombing incident, a foreign ministry spokesman said. May welcomed Khan’s decision of releasing the Indian pilot, which has been widely appreciated by the international community. She mentioned the need for both India and Pakistan to de-escalate. She added that UK was in touch with both sides in this regard. Pakistanis protest Jamaat-e-Islami ban in Kashmir Also on Sunday, hundreds of people gathered in Pakistan’s eastern city Lahore to protest against India. The demonstration came after India’s home ministry issued a notification against Kashmir’s social, political and religious group Jamaat-e-Islami, accusing the group of supporting armed revolt in the region. The Lahore protest was organised by political party Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan.