Comrade YA’ U Adamu Gora, President of the Maritime Branch of (SSASCGOC) in this interview with ANDREW UTULU, had an encounter with him and he highlighted the challenges in the maritime industry vis a vis the Union. Excerpts: Tell us your plans as you prepare to leave the Presidency of the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government Owned Companies (SSASCGOC), Maritime Branch? Well my agenda as of today is to ensure that whoever is coming here, to take over from me should continue from where I stopped. We have a lot of challenges in the maritime sector. Our own challenges situates on access roads, the Apapa Wharf road, the Apapa-Oshodi express road, these are our challenges, and they are very-very serious challenges, we need to look at the situation critically. Like I said, and what I read in the newspaper, that NPA loses billions of Naira due to bad road, I can tell you it is a great loss as at today. A truck that is supposed to go inside the port to pick up consignment and leave within three to four hours, is taking ten days, sometime months to enter the port. It is not supposed to be so, a truck is supposed to do two or three trips in and out of the port within a day. Before, vehicles could enter the port, load 30tons of rice and take to a warehouse along Oshodi -Apapa Road, and come back before closing time, but today, even from Apapa to Marine Beach, you cannot get it in a day.  In a week, you cannot make it. In a week you cannot make it to take a truck into the port from Marine Bridge, Load and come out on the other side of Kirikiri, even in a week, even to Olodi-Apapa here, where they have most of the warehouses. It is not the best, people are not happy. Transporters, importers are loosing money because now you pay nothing less than N50,000 to enter the port, which is not the best. So what is your advice for any person who emerges president of the country to do about the sector? Any person, whoever that is coming in as President in 2019, should look at ways of solving this issue of gridlock, which is the condition of the road, nothing more than that. Apart from the condition of the roads, the Presidential task force, has to be reviewed or overhauled. The officers that make up the task force are now business people.  I said it, and I will continue to say it. They have turned it to a business venture.  There is nowhere you go now without making a deal with them, before a container or truck enters the port. You must make a deal with the presidential task force members. Whether the military, the police, the navy, be it the NPA security, they are all involved. You have to make a deal before you enter the port. This is very wrong. As a leader of maritime branch of a Union, part of your duty is to serve as a pressure group to the management to wake up. So, to what extent have you done this to correct the anomalies? We have been discussing with the Executive Management. I could remember, I sat twice with my Managing Director in respect of this. The Managing Director told me that she had done her bit, now there is pressure on the Federal Ministry of works, to do their own. In fact, it has reached a state that the management took responsibility to use a certain account to fix this road. Only they were not given the power to do it. The management, if given the chance, power and responsibility to do it, they can do it. We have the fund to do it. But the Federal ministry of Works, did not give them the power and privilege to fix this road, if not, they would have fixed the road before now. Your junior cadre in NPA Union, the maritime branch claimed that NPA has more senior staff than junior staff which makes the job to suffer. Why is it so? We have more senior officers than junior officers agreed, but let me tell you, I am an operational man, from grass root to my present position, I have been in operation, some of you can attest to that. No body from level 8 to level 13, in Nigerian Ports Authority that is not working. We are working; even our senior managers are in the field working. So, no work suffers. But, let us get the grass root staff to assist the senior officers. That is what we are fighting for, succession plan. Even the senior officers, so many of us are retiring. Retirement is taking people away, every now and then.  So, I cannot tell you the actual number of the junior staff right now, but we have been asking, the management to have a very good succession plan, so that they can get more staff in the system. Your election is coming up very soon, how are you prepared for a successful election? Very good, the preparation is on course. Comrade Sir, since you took up the leadership mantle of the Union, what would you say were the challenges within the period? The main challenges, as a union man is that of a diverse interest.  Maritime sector is a very-very complex sector. It is lucrative and complex, with the diverse interests in the sector is our challenge. There is in-house interest, there is outside interest, there is national interest, and there is international interest.  So those have been the major challenges. How have you managed the challenges? Well, we are trying to see that within our own environment, sometime we go outside the box, to see that we can contain the challenges, where we can do it, we do, those that are above us, we push through writing to beg those that are in charge and higher than us, to see if they would respond just like this case of gridlock. From February 2, 2015 to last December, I wrote almost about 2 letters, to the Federal Ministry of transport, and Federal ministry of Works, on this traffic issue, so these are the challenges, diverse interest in the maritime sector is our worst problem. There have been calls for multifaceted transport system to ease the transport problem? Very well, some years back, there was rail line in the port, containers used to be evacuated through the rail, even from Lagos to Kaduna Inland Container Terminal. Unfortunately, after concessioning, the rail track, were removed, so where do we start from. Look at from Apapa to Mile 2, look at the roads, if the government have interest to do it, let them give the Executive management the power to do it, or even to expand, which will involve relocating some people from the water side, like from Apapa, if you go through Boundary, to Mile 2, all these area to Ajegunle should be relocated. This will expand the scope of port roads or the land mass. The constant traffic is just unfortunate, as an operational man, if I am given the chance, I will control it instead of using the army, the police and all. Unfortunately, it is the Presidential task force that is controlling it.  They have turned that traffic control to commercial venture. A truck that should enter the port within an hour, will take seven or ten days to do that. In fact, you have to pay heavily, before you are taken to the port. They used to pilot vehicles, containers after collecting a certain amount of money. So if a professional is given that responsibility, he will clear that port. This is because it is not inside the port that we have the major problem, but outside the port. How About Capacity Building as an Economic Driver? Capacity building is very important for development. This is when it is done objectively. What is the state of Warri Port? There is progress, work is ongoing. Right now, the Warri port is being dredged. Nobody is saying that there is traffic in Warri port, but the draught needed to be dredged, which the management is doing right now.  Warri and Calabar ports are being dredged. Recently, your Union clocked 40 years, can you tell us about the journey so far? Well, there is a common saying that the journey of a hundred miles starts with a step forward. The journey so far cannot be said to be an easy one.  It took the grace of Almighty God that gathered men of integrity, knowledge and skill to wade through the challenges of the long journey. At the beginning and till date, Union Executives were seen as bunch of rascals whose activities retard the efforts of the management in achieving corporate goals and objectives-vision and mission. I want to stress here that Unions and their Executives are catalyst and partners in progress in the bid to moving an organisation forward. Our great Association is not an exception.The mission and vision of the Authority will be difficult to achieve if there is lack of harmony between management and Union. It is therefore, very important that management co-navigate with Union in driving policies and the implementation of these policies to a successful end for the good of the Authority. Associations like ours have transformed into strong institution with men of knowledge and skill capable of employing the techniques of superior argument borne on research and analysis. Invariably, applying the concept of collective bargaining to achieve the desired result. To what extent has the activities of your Union impacted on the maritime industry in general? Our great Association provided the needed strategy to engage management and government in a robust discussion on port reform, and other policies affecting the port sector in particular and the maritime industry in general. It is worthy to note that in the course of struggle to see the growth of NPA and the welfare of the workforce, grievance resolution was jointly tackled by the two umbrella Unions in the Nigerian Ports Authority. They are the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government Owned Companies (SSASGOC), Maritime Branch and the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN). Can you give us a brief history of Nigerian Ports Authority? The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), commenced operation on the 1st April, 1955 under the Port Act of 1954. The Authority is being supervised by Federal Ministry of Transport with the responsibility of providing specific ports and harbours services for the country’s maritime industry. The activities of Nigeria Ports were commercialised in 1992 and renamed Nigerian Port Plc. However, considering the fact that the company was still wholly owned by government, hence it was reverted to its former name, Nigerian Ports Authority in 1996. Can you give an insight of some of the development in the ports? Port operations and development in Nigeria began in the middle of the 19th Century long after the take –off of sea-borne trade in the country. The ports from inception are: Lagos Port Complex, Container Terminal, Tincan Island Port Complex, RoRo Port (Roll-on, Roll-off), Delta Port Complex, Onne Port Complex and Calabar Port Complex. Give us brief history of the Senior Staff Association, Maritime Branch? The Association was born barely five years after the port Act of 1954 as Nigerian Ports Authority commenced operation in 1955. The growth of the Association can be likened to that of a toddler, who starts life at birth, crawling and grows to maturity. You can agree with me that the celebration is worthy at forty. The pioneer executives encountered several challenges in setting up functional administrative structure. Primarily, fund was scarce as staff strength was low. However, these men persevered and managed the scarce resources available to them. The period in question spans from 1959 when Chief S.B.Kuku kick started the race to about 1989, when Mr. M.A. Babayemi piloted the affairs of Association. Recently, the Association celebrated its  40th anniversary in Lagos.