NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE,  SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE When President Mohammadu Buhari takes a fresh oath of office to renew his mandate for another four years on May 29, alongside his deputy, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, his biggest challenge may well be on the apathy and resentment by a large segment of the country’s middle class and upwardly mobile youth population in the just concluded presidential and National Assembly elections. But, as it now, Buhari comfortably won a second term at the helm of Africa’s largest economy, election, according to the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), even as his main rival, Atiku Abubakar is planning to challenge the victory in court on what he regards as “premeditated malpractices”. The development, which is at variance with positive disposition of Buhari through the passage of Not-Too-Young-To-Rule bill, is projected by observers as future worries for policy wonks in government and the new administration. Another worry for Buhari despite winning the election is the perceived voting pattern during the polls that suggest that he may be far disconnected from the influential middle class population in the country. These are people who live in highly urbanized areas, work in sensitive government offices or are upwardly mobile self-sustaining individuals. Pew Research Center defines the middle class as a resident who earns $46, 960 (N17million) per annum and lives in a household of four. Given the realities in Nigeria, less than five percent of the country’s population falls into the category. By Standard Bank’s survey, Nigeria can only have as much as three percent of Africa’s 15 million middle class populations. Even the Dependency Ratio, DR, places most residents in Abuja, indeed the country, beyond the nuclear family of four. By UN benchmark, DR, is 1:70. The implication, according to some analysts is that, they may have all been affected by the dwindling fortunes of economic indices in the last four years, a development that may have informed their voting pattern. For instance, Nigerian Bureau of Statistics, NBS, shows that Real Household Consumption Expenditure, in the first quarter of 2018, declined by 0.25% but slowly grew by 0.78% year on year in Q2 2018. Household expenditure consists of expenditures, including imputed ones incurred by residents/households on individual consumption of goods and services. Apparently, their lot is dictated by poor runs in government expenditure as well. Also, individual and government misery index replicated in the states, FCT included also show distress. This is also demonstrated in the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), which declined in the third quarter of 2018, replicating the same downward trend in the last few years. According to NBS, states’ Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) declined in the third quarter of 2018, replicating the same downward trend as seen in the previous quarter. Consequently, President Mohammadu Buhari’s loss in Abuja, the nation’s capital, during the Presidential polls, may well sum up as the middle class population’s lash out at his policies in the last four years from clear economic indices at Sunday INDEPENDENT’s disposal. Buhari had to rally endorsements from regions posting excruciating poverty indices. The party trailed PDP by as much as 107, 773 votes. “It’s an indictment on the President considering that he is the landlord of the FCT,” explained Isuma Isuma Mark, policy analyst. According to him, the FCT forms bulk of middle class population along with other states like Lagos. If the population, who are better at analyzing policy impact of the president’s administration, thumbed him down at the polls, it applies principally to states with high level of middle class population like Lagos, Anambra, Rivers, Oyo and so on,” he said. But, some analysts say at the weekend that the scenario presents Buhari opportunity to improve on areas he was alleged to have performed poorly. According to them, although the opposition’s fraud accusations may have heightened tensions in the region’s most populous nation and biggest oil producer, the controversy could also just peter out, as happened recently after a presidential vote in Democratic Republic of Congo. “A legal challenge is very unlikely to overturn the official result,” said John Ashbourne, economist at Capital Economics in London, of the Nigerian election, reports, Reuters. Another area of hope for Buhari to possibly turn the tide to his favour, according to them is that he may find it easier to pass policies after the defeat of his major political rivals like Bukola Saraki, Senate President, among others and return or election of those loyal to him like Senators Ahmed Lawan, currently the Senate leader, representing Yobe North Senatorial District,  Abdullahi Adamu, representing Nasarawa West Senatorial District and Ali Ndume, representing Borno South Senatorial District. In fact, Lawan, who lost to Saraki in the power play, is currently being touted as the likely senate president. Saraki nominally controlled parliament under the ruling party banner, but bitter disputes with the presidency saw the lawmaker often working to frustrate bills and budgets proposed by Buhari. He decamped to the opposition last year. “Buhari is likely to get a friendlier Senate president, which could mean more efficient executive-legislative coordination,” said Amaka Anku, Africa director at Eurasia Group, says Reuters. In fact, going into the polls last week, the expectation on the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, of which the president was committed to by international observers, was the conduct of a free, fair and credible poll that must not fall shy of 2015 general election standards. While some foreign observers like the UK, US on Wednesday say that results of the election announced by INEC was verified, they were however shy of making comparison with the 2015 benchmark. The UK’s Harriet Baldwin, Minister of State for Africa, for instance explained that its position was informed by a parallel vote tabulation process set up by civil societies during the election. According to her, the figures tallied with what INEC declared on Wednesday, given the winner to APC. Also, international media believed that the President won the hearts of Nigerians which contributed largely to his victory in the election. For instance, Economist in its reaction to the outcome of the election tweeted, “Voters belief in Mr Buhari’s personal integrity was important factor in his victory this time.” In the same vein, New York Times wrote, “Muhammadu Buhari has won a second term as Nigeria’s president in an election that was many ways a referendum on honesty.” However, their views may not be tenable for long, given that the same process threw up conflicting claims upon which Atiku has mounted a challenge. According to the former Nigeria’s number two man, the March 23, polls is the worst ever election conducted since the return to democracy in 1999. Civil society groups also raise worrisome observations in the conduct of the polls. By the end of the voting and collation exercises, Buhari was declared winner by INEC after polling over 15 million votes as against his closest challenger’s over 11 million. But there are angry buzzes from both PDP and coalition of observers that the results lacked integrity. The challenge is being supported by what the agitators claim to be results from their own Vote Count Surveillance, VCS (otherwise referred to as Parallel Voters Tabulation/Tally) process. The newspaper understands that the opposition party, PDP, and a coalition of observers had their separate VCS set up during the election. Details of VCS in the days ahead when made public, according to them, may stain both the voting process and integrity of the figures. The PDP, for instance called its own mechanism a PVT. According to Osita Chidoka, spokesman for the PDP Presidential Campaign Council, the mechanism hinders election rigging on account of its cloud based technology. By this, the vote count surveillance is internet based. Its data are uploaded straight into the internet and can be accessed from remote locations. Data captured during the election include picture and video evidence of happenings around polling units, election result sheet copies photographed and sent and many other details that authenticate vote results. PDP says that the technology is first of its kind. As part of the process, too, the party said it deployed unprecedented number of trained party agents to each of the 176,000 polling units across the country to monitor the elections. As at Thursday, most of these agents are said to have turned in their reports while those already in the cloud accessed for legal analysis. “The PVT is a tool that will assure that PDP partisans accept the result of the elections, and that the country remains peaceful and respectful of its differences. We are aware that other PVTs were also deployed by civil societies. “Our methodology accounts for several different scenarios to ensure continued collation of the results in the event of any disruptions with collation process,” Chidoka said. Other observers of the election were however more forthcoming with their reports on the election. The Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room, NCSSR, expressed disappointment at the conduct of the polls across the country. The group claimed to have deployed 8, 000 observers across the country who networked to provide the reports. According to Situation Room, lots of voters were disenfranchised on account of delayed voting. “The average starting time of voting at most polling units across the country was 11am,” stated Clement Nwankwo, executive director, CLEEN Foundation and convener of NCSSR. However, Dr. Dele Seteolu, Political Analyst and Lecturer Department of Political Science Lagos State University (LASU) believes that the elections “are qualitatively less than the 2015 General Elections. The voter turnout averaged 35 per cent. This is not impressive and it signpost increasing distancing from politics and the political class.” Speaking further, Seteolu said, “The political class was pre-occupied with the struggle for power and therefore resorted to hate speeches, accusations and counter accusations. I am not satisfied with the quality of the process; it could be better. The elected officials, especially in the National Assembly elections had been elected by the minorities in terms of poor voter turnout; and hence implications for legitimacy and political inclusion.” Dr. Adewale Aderemi, Acting Head, Department of Political Science, Lagos State University (LASU), however disagree with him. He argued, “I think majority of Nigerians do not appreciate the enormity of organising general elections for a polity with 80million electorates; I can tell you it’s a very onerous task, especially when you contrast it with the virtual non-existence of a comprehensive national database and the logistics of security and infrastructure, especially transportation to the hinterland. “Given these conditions and the sheer number of political parties, I would say it was not a bad outing and the internal observers came to the same conclusion. On the integrity of the figures, he added, “Well I can’t vouch in an armchair on the veracity of figures in all the states, all the wards and all the polling units, but remember these figures have to be triangulated – number of registered voters with number of accredited voters with the disaggregated voting patterns, it’s not easy to conflate election results that will be credible, especially prior to the elections. Don’t also forget that those figures were also authenticated by agents of 73 political parties. “Compared with the last elections in 2015, the voter turnout was low and it ranks among the lowest figures for presidential elections since 1999; that may be interpreted as apathy. Several things breed voter apathy one, if there is widespread belief that results will be concocted people won’t turn out for elections, the threat of violence is another and for this particular election, the postponement I think played a big role in the voter depression we experienced. “The way forward will be more and more voter education, very proactive preparations by the electoral umpires, capacity building and strengthening of our institutions especially our electoral legislation. We also need to improve significantly on infrastructure wholesale.” Dr. Dennis Ekemezie, Public affairs analyst and civil society activist,   decried incidences of violence that ravaged some parts of Lagos, Rivers, Anambra, Ebonyi, Kogi, Plataeu and Kano states among others. Speaking on the  integrity of the figures churned out by INEC,  Ekemezie suggeted that INEC be proactive and in the process of postponing the election give early information rather than the sudden death method that weighed voters down the last time. Buhari also has to deal with the threat from militants in the oil-rich southern Niger Delta region. The Niger Delta Avengers, whose attacks in 2016 pushed the economy into its first recession in 25 years, had warned on February 14 of possible attacks, after elections, want their area to get a greater share of oil revenue it produces. Buhari has a daunting to-do list, from reviving an economy still struggling to recover from the recession to quelling a decade-old Islamist insurgency in the northeast. However, Buhari, in his acceptance speech, said he would reform the economy, combat graft and improve security, and urged supporters not to gloat or “humiliate” the opposition. “We will continue to engage all parties. Our government will remain inclusive and our doors will remain open,” he said while receiving his election certificate.