Lagos  – After what has seemed a long wait, the Super Eagles will be on duty once again on Friday as the last matches of the qualifiers for the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt in May take centre stage. Nigeria, just like a couple of countries, have  qualified for the biannual championship, making their match against Seychelles on Friday a mere formality. With the invitation of two unknown names for the Seychelles match and the subsequent one against the Pharaohs of Egypt, as part of the preparations for the competition, opinions though have been divided with Nigerians urging the coach to start his preparations for the Cup of Nations in earnest. To observers, the issue of preparation had become very necessary given that sports authorities in the country have severally undone Nigerian sportsmen and women through inadequate support in terms of preparation for major events. For example, after Team Nigeria failed abysmally at the Rio Olympic Games in 2016, coming home with only one bronze medal won by the football team after parading 77 athletes, majority of Nigerians heaped the whole blame on their unpreparedness for the Games. Even before the Rio Games, the country has lagged behind in terms of providing adequate preparations for sportsmen and women, particularly for events of that magnitude. So, poor preparations took its toll on the athletes at the 2016 Games. The majority of the athletes was unable to go on training tours before the Games and also lacked the world-class facilities back home to prepare for a competition of the Olympic magnitude. Even the John Mikel Obi-captained U23 Team, at a point during the Games, found itself enmeshed in a hotel saga where the players were threatened with ejection over unpaid  bills in the United States. The Dream Team was stranded during its training tour of Atlanta, USA and could not arrive at Manaus, venue of its first group game against Japan, until six hours to kick off, following the intervention of the Federal Government which brought in Delta Airlines after the initial arrangements to fly the team to Brazil failed. The same poor preparation has severally blighted Nigeria’s preparations towards participation for African Cup of Nations, leading to poor performances. Long regarded as the African powerhouse, the Super Eagles won the Cup of Nations as recently as 2013 and have won more World Cup games than any other African country. But poor preparations and in-house fighting, couple with unavailability of funds led to the country missing the last two Africa Cup of Nations championships in both Equatorial Guinea and Gabon. In fact, starting from 2012, Nigeria have failed to qualify for three out of the last four Cup of Nations editions, with the triumph in South Africa under late Stephen Keshi in 2013 being their last win. Consequently, Coach Gernot Rohr was appointed to manage the team with the mandate to return Nigeria to the continental scene and also qualify the Super Eagles for the 2018 World Cup in Russia. Despite the failure to qualify for the past editions, the task, to many Nigerians, was not a very daunting one because of the country’s pedigree on the continent. The coach lived up to the expectation by not only qualifying for the two competitions but doing so with matches to spare. With the way Nigeria qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, the Super Eagles will be expected to once again go all the way but according to Gbenga Ogunbote, the coach of Rangers International, as well as so many stakeholders, the extent Nigeria would reach at the competition will be a function of the kind of preparations they were exposed to. “It is not about how good or easy the team qualified for the Cup of Nations; it has everything to do with their preparation. A team may be good but will be undone by poor preparation. “Nobody will doubt that we have a good team, at least the one that could hold their own against oppositions, particularly in Africa, but they must prepare very well. “Our preparation is very important. In fact, the extent we will go in this Africa Cup of Nations is a function of how well we prepare,” he told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT during an interview. This is why Joseph Yobo, former captain of the team, admonished the coach to start the preparation with the last qualifying match against Seychelles in Nigeria on Friday. To the former captain, the match against Seychelles was insignificant and the coach should use it to test fringe players. “The game is not as important as it’s meant to be. So I want the coach to call up fringe players and up and coming youngsters so that they can also showcase their talent; may be one or two of them can impress him.” Meanwhile, with Captain John Mikel Obi and Kelechi Iheanacho the only popular omissions for the matches against Seychelles and Egypt,  it is obvious that the coach did toe the part of Yobo, and has vowed to approach the matches with all seriousness. But according to Mutiu Adepoju, while vetting the list, the emphasis should not be on winning, urging to coach to use the two matches to achieve the right cohesion and understanding ahead of the competition. “The kick off of the AFCON is less than three months away and it has been a long time the players came together, so they need to understand themselves again through playing together. I think that is what the two matches should achieve instead of us insisting that they win at all cost,” he said. With just one more window after the weekend’s matches before the Cup of Nation, it is very necessary that Rohr makes best use of the opportunity to infuse tactical and technical discipline in the team and also work on the grey areas in order to present a well-fortified team in the championship. Jamilu Collins, a left back, who plays for SC Paderborn 07 in the German Bundesliga 2, is a good invitation. He has been consistent in his club since arriving at the Benteler-Arena. The two matches, observers noted, should be used to assess his suitability as a big option in that left back position, which has remained a huge problem for the team after all recent occupants of the position, including Elderson Echiejile, have failed to stamp their authority. Collins is naturally a left-footer unlike Bryan Idowu, who filled in at the World Cup, and being younger than Echiejile is also a big point in his favour. He is physical player whose aggression will serve him well in African football; he is also capable going forward. He possesses reasonable speed and always crosses low along the turf, either to the near post or across the face of goal. His frame means he is not easily out muscled, and he can go shoulder-to-shoulder with most players, whether in a defensive or offensive capacity. He, though, can be sometimes very aggressive on the ball at times. Also, standing on 1.97 metres, Valentine Ozornwafor, the Flying Eagles defender, Rohr explained, was invited on the strength of the quality he displayed during the CAF U20 Cup of Nations in Niger, where Nigeria finished third behind Mali and Senegal. “I expect this player to bring his freshness, his physical strength (1.97m) and technical quality. It also offers us an additional option since we have a lot of right sided defenders. I saw him in Niger at the AFCON and I like his aerial game,” he added. These, Nigerians have echoed, are good invitations given that apart from Nigeria’s golden era with tall and imposing defenders like Uche Okechukwu, Austin Eguaveon and the late Uche Okafor, Super Eagles have been bereft of tall defenders, who are very advantageous in aerial balls, though with the exception of the two central defensive combo of William Troost-Ekong and Leon Balogun. While it is obvious that Ozornwafor may not make the team to Egypt eventually, his discovery through the test matches will be a very good addition to the strength of the Super Eagles in due matches. Perhaps, the best invite, some sports writers have posited, is FC Midtjylland of Denmark forward, Paul Onuachu. Onuachu has been one of the most Nigerian consistent players in Europe. This season, he has stepped it up with 17 goals in 29 games. No Nigerian player has that kind of number anywhere in world football. With this kind of form, a national team call up was always going to come and Rohr has taken his form into consideration and given him his debut call up. Speaking to our correspondent, Ike Shorunmu, while commending the NFF for their support to the team, said that the football house should give further to the team in order to get as far as possible in the competition proper. “They (NFF) have been very supportive of the team and that is very commendable. But at this time, I want them to do everything in terms of support to prepare them very well for them to represent Nigeria very well. “It is not all about the NFF, Nigerians should support the team to do well because that support is what they need at this time,” he said. But speaking to the media earlier in the week, Rohr harped on the imperative of good preparation as the panacea for doing well in Egypt, while reiterating his earlier stance on a semifinal berth for the Super Eagles. “If we have good preparation in good conditions, Nigeria must aim for the semifinals of AFCON 2019. We have a very young team that can do well,” Rohr said.