ENUGU – A faction of Ohanaeze Ndigbo led by Richard Ozobu has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on his victory in last Saturday’s presidential election. Uche Okwukwu, the secretary general, at a press briefing in Enugu on Thursday, said that Ndigbo were happy that President Buhari secured more votes in Igboland than he got in 2015. He said: “The Ohanaeze Ndigbo heartily rejoices and congratulates President Muhammadu Buhari on his well-deserved victory at the presidential polls on February 23, 2019. “His victory, as exposed by the majority of votes cast, shows that the president has been on the right course in the last four years. “Ndigbo are happy that the President secured more votes in Igboland than he got in 2015. “We urge all Nigerians and the international community to accept the verdict as the election was adjudged free, credible, transparent and peaceful and call on all not to heat up the polity through unguarded utterances and actions,” Okwukwu said. When reminded that the Nnia Nwodo group in Ohanaeze Ndigbo endorsed the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Peter Obi as their choice, Okwukwu said the endorsement was not a decision of Ohanaeze. He said any decision to adopt a candidate ought to have been a product of deep consultations. Okwukwu recalled that on January 23, when the purported endorsement was made, the President was in Onitsha to honour the great Zik of Africa and all the South-East governors and indeed the entire old Eastern Region were there. Okwukwu said Governor Ifeany Umahi, the chairman of South-East Governors’ Forum, called Nwodo and asked him to postpone Imeobi but he refused and only later agreed to shift the time to 6pm, adding that he went ahead to hold it before the scheduled time. He said even Chris Ngige called to dissuade Nwodo from holding the said imeobi, all to no avail, only for him to go ahead with the meeting at Nike Lake where he announced the endorsement of Atiku/Obi ticket. Okwukwu said if there was any valid endorsement, it ought to have been signed by him as secretary general in accordance with Ohanaeze constitution. He said all the governors and ministers who showed up by 6pm as scheduled were disappointed to hear Imeobi had held and that an endorsement was made. He said a decision of Imeobi on such an important issue must pass through the general assembly but it was not so in the instant case.