The Olowu of Kuta, Osun State, His Royal Highness, Oba Hammed Adekunle Makama, has warned politicians to stop politicising activities and role of the Nigeria Army in ensuring the security of the nation especially during elections. Olowu in a statement on Wednesday said the report from some states in the South South indicated that military were used to perpetuate violence on innocent citizens and disrupt electoral process. He warned desperate politicians to stop dragging the military into politics because of its dire consequence on the nation’s stability and national cohesion. The revered monarch who maintained that the army represents the nation’s symbols of unity, said the onus is on them to remain apolitical. He decried a situation whereby some politicians armed their thugs in military fatigues to cause mayhem, saying this is not acceptable. “In the process of using the army to protect the will of the people, especially in Rivers State, some of them were attacked and hospitalised. “We owe our military high regards because of their oath to protect our territorial integrity and if the need arises, lay down their precious lives for the country. “We believe our military is apolitical and that explains why the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai promised to set a high powered investigative panel to unravel the level of culpability of any disgruntled army officer if any, before , during and after the election. “The international observers commended the Army for maintaining peace and displaying utmost professionalism during the presidential and National Assembly elections conducted a forthright ago. “I also want to sympathise with traditional rulers in the South South and South East and urge them to continue to be the symbol of peace and unity that the office of traditional institution has conferred on them,” the statement said. Olowu also canvassed for an endowment fund to take care of families of those who pay the supreme sacrifice while defending Nigeria. He, however, reiterated his call for better funding that is commensurate to meet the procurement of modern equipment and to motivate the officers and men to give their best. “Insurgency has become international phenomenon and we must deal with it squarely, otherwise the lives and property of our people will be at risk. “All hands must be on deck to support our military as this will boost their morale for more efficiency and optimum performance,” he noted.