Abuja – Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), disclosed on Thursday that the presidency would not lose sleep over the decision of Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to contest the result of the presidential poll held on Saturday. According to the SGF, it was constitutional for Atiku to approach the court, especially as the Electoral Act had provided a window to aggrieved candidates to seek legal redress. “We are not jittery at all because the process was open and transparent. “It was a credible election and we will continue to savour the victory, but in the process, too, we will extend the hand of friendship for the purpose of nation building and reconciliation,” he told State House correspondents after a meeting hosted to thank All Progressives Congress (APC) supporters who played prominent roles in the recent election. Boss said since Atiku had made up his mind to tow that line, he should go ahead with it. “Our Electoral Act and the constitution have both provided a window for whoever is dissatisfied with the process of election to seek redress. That is the path and we will encourage them to go along that path,” he said. He said now that the presidential election was over, better things await Nigerians in the second term of the administration, particularly in the area of infrastructural development. He said: “Looking into the future of the country, the president is very clear about what he wants to do. “He will stand on the three pivot points that he pushed forward in 2015: securing the nation, diversifying the economy, and also fighting corruption with all intensity. “There will be inclusiveness all over the place. This is one government that has really invested in social infrastructure by bringing people who are below the poverty level up and out of poverty. “There are so many things that we are looking forward to, and I am very thrilled and grateful that we had this opportunity to now consolidate on the tenets and gains of our democracy.”