Akparawa Ephraim Inyang-Eyen, Commissioner For Works, Akwa Ibom State in this interview with IDONGESIT ASHAMERI speaks on some developments in his state ahead of Saturday’s governorship elections. Excerpts: Some political analysts are of the opinion that the outcome of the presidential election will determine the next party to win the Governorship election in Akwa- Ibom state. What is your take on that? No. I don’t think so. The position of Governor Udom Emmanuel is very distinct. Many people here believe that with or without presidential election, they stand with the Governor. The open endorsement of the governor for a second term by CAN and other men of God in the state has been criticised by the opposition, do you think the men of God should dabble into politics? Is there anywhere in the constitution of the country that they are banned from endorsing any political candidate of their choice? Listen, it is very simple to know that the Christians have accepted Udom Emmanuel because he is a born again christian They consider him as one of their own. We are in a free society with freedom to support whomever you desires. Have the Christian Association of Nigeria and other affiliate groups not been supporting candidates of their choices in the past? Why is this one now special or worrisome? I think the reason is that this is the first time a born again Christian is leading the state as Governor, so the massive level of support have unsettled the opposition. Look; men of like minds run together, so if anybody is afraid, he should also go and became a born again Christian so that the next time he will contest election the fathers of faith will support him. They told me that they are supporting Governor Emmanuel because he is a born again Christian and one of their own. Today in Akwa Ibom we have two extreme ends contesting the governorship, the first is light while the second is darkness; Again is performance and capacity versus no performance and no capacity. Akwa Ibom people will never want to return to the inglorious past where killings and kidnappings were done even in the churches during services. I think the fathers of faith in the state were also pained by those atrocities of the past. The campaigns here were generally peaceful, could it be attributed to the proscription of cultism in the state by the Governor? I am very sure you know that too well. Look! when a child of God comes upon the throne, he brings with him all components and structures that goes with the God he worships. The coming of Governor Emmanuel changes the spiritual atmosphere of the state. God is no longer invited to the state like our leaders did in the past, but a permanent resident in the state now and where God resides, there must be peace. The Governor brought peace because he is a man of peace who worships the God of peace. When he proscribed cultism, he did not threw away the young men who are Akwa Ibom Youths, rather he remodeled them into better persons. Most of these youths are strong Christian today. Note that our youths now have at least one general prayer meeting monthly from August 2015 till date. I have represented the Governor in that Youths prayer gathering about six times without them missing once since inception. When you go there you will see the zeal and commitment they have showed in serving God. Akwa Ibom Youths have seen the light. The opposition party APC, before the presidential election petitioned INEC Chairman demanding the removal of state REC Mike Igini over his ‘romance’ with PDP. What is your take on this? You see, all good men must face tribulation at one time or the other in life. In my candid opinion as a Nigerian, Mike Igini is one of the best Resident Electoral Commissioners serving in INEC Nigeria. Why didn’t this story come up much earlier? There must have been attempt to compromise him, which failed. They brought a commissioner of police who came to do their bidding. We were not worried until the man was promoted and transferred. Igini is a man of distinct character, if darkness is trying to fight him, good! but they won’t prevail. Even the National Chairman of INEC knows the worth of Mike Igini. Governor Udom Emmanuel did not request for Igini to be posted here, they saw his quality and posted him here and he has been doing a good job. All the stakeholders and professional bodies here know he has been doing a good job. He is corrupt free and equally checkmates his men. Anybody or group demanding his removal know that on free and fair polls they will not go far. They won’t succeed in removing him because he has done nothing wrong and nobody has anything to prove against him. Why must it be only in Akwa Ibom that a REC is removed less than a week to election? We have confidence in Prof. Yakubu, INEC chairman that he would not succumb to such cheap blackmail. Igini has not done anything to warrant his removal. Some people are panicking because they are unable to compromise him. Taking about your ministry, we have had discordant tunes on the issues of compensation to property owners who lost it to right of way to have new roads in the state, why the issues? When this government took over, we discovered that during road construction, one man values the property on the right of way and same man pays compensation. He fixes whatever money he wants and choses whom to pay and when to pay. When we came on board, there were lots of complains by genuine property owners and the governor told me we must altar the arrangements. So we appointed valuers differently and any value we are not satisfied with, we get a second opinion, then the Governor insisted I see the property valued physically before making payments and after my confirmation of the property, we hand over the paper to a payment consultant whose job is solely to pay for the property already valued. There were lots of lies and problems before we changed the system, today no genuine property owners are short changed. However in Etinan-Ndoneyo road, people went to build emergency houses on the right of way, moments they knew that government plans to dualise the road, over 4000 strange houses emerged overnight with blocks covering themselves without windows. When we did a casual estimation of those houses, it was to cost the government a whooping N6 billion to pay as compensation and government took a decision to stop the menace and whipped off all those property in one day with bulldozers without paying a dime. It discouraged others who planned doing it to extort money from government. Our coming corrected so much ills in the issue of payment of compensation to property owners. The governor had promised to complete and commission more roads before the end of his first term in office, has that been overtaken by politics? Many of the roads I told you will be ready are ready for commissioning. The list are much the bridge at Obotme-Arochukwu road is almost ready, after which the already constructed road will be linked up. Go to Awa-Ikot-Emem-Ikot-Edim-Ikot Ebiere road, it is ready. If you go to the Obio Akpa Campus of the Akwa Ibom State University, all the roads there including those linking the communities are ready for commissioning that 6.4km road. The 10km Udung Uko road is also ready. Oron phase two road is also on course notwithstanding financial setbacks recently. By April ending Etebi-Enwang road will be ready without the bridge. The 1.02km bridge is equally progressing. With the arrival of funds most of the roads which are now at Asphalt stage will be completed. The Governor actually wanted to concentrate on the campaign rallies and has refused commissioning the roads for now. We witnessed his refusal at Oruk Anam and Mkpat Enin Council areas where roads constructed there are ready for commissioning. Again several roads done through direct labour are ready for commissioning. However the Governor will commission most of the road before May 29th 2019.