Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Sunday lashed out at President Muhammadu Buhari over his trip to the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), saying he was embarking on the journey without definite objectives, plans, and proposals to attract tangible benefits to the nation. The party said attending such an important meeting of world leaders and policy makers without a clear-cut national agenda showed that the Buhari presidency was not committed to the nation, but only going out for another showboating on the international platform. The PDP, in a statement by Kola Ologbondiyan, its spokesman, said: “Is it not lamentable that while other leaders are heading to the meeting with well-articulated national proposals that will boost their nations’ competitiveness on international engagements, the Buhari presidency is going empty with zero capacity to engage, a clear signal that it will equally return empty? “The sad effect of such leadership failure is worsened by the acceptability issues trailing the rigging of the February presidential election, for which the Buhari presidency is largely lacking in confidence and poise to vigorously engage other world leaders on issues. “In over four years of this administration, the Buhari presidency has not been able to harness opportunities presented by such important events despite huge resources deployed for attendance. “The PDP painfully recalls how, earlier this month, President Buhari returned empty from the 7th Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD7), at the same time his Ghanaian counterpart, Nana Akufo-Ado, sealed a deal with automobile giant, Toyota, to establish a Toyota and Suzuki manufacturing plant in Ghana.” The party advised him to use the opportunity of the UNGA to address world leaders on the reports by the European Union (EU), African Union (AU), and other international bodies, detailing heavy manipulations and outright rigging of the 2019 general elections to favour him and his party. “Our party also urges Mr. President to address the world on reported issues of violations of human rights, disregard to the rule of law and constitutional order, disobedience to court orders, arbitrary arrest and detention of citizens, extrajudicial killings, impunity and swelling corruption under his watch,” the party said. The PDP insisted that President Buhari address the world on the UN Rapporteurs report as well as issues of violent divisions, escalating banditry, bloodletting and general insecurity in the country under his administration. The party further demanded that the president address the world on how his administration wrecked “our once robust economy from a prosperous nation to the world poverty capital in a space of four years”. The PDP pointed out that these were facts known to all and for which the world was demanding answers from the Buhari presidency. It urged President Buhari to summon the confidence and courage required to demand help from other world leaders.