Abuja – Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Defence, Hon. Babajimi Benson (APC, LagThe os), has said that his Committee would work to make sure that accountability and prudence in government spending in the area of security are upheld. The chairman also assured all security agencies of his Committee’s readiness to work and support them in their quest to discharge their responsibility. In a statement he personally signed and made available to journalists on Sunday, Hon. Benson said this has become necessary because of the enormous tasks before both his Committee and the security agencies its oversights. The lawmaker who represents Ikorodu Federal Constituency of Lagos State said the security agencies in the country must live up to the expectations of Nigerians to protect their lives and property. According to him, the committee is ready to give them the necessary support¸ especially following the decision of the House to provide a special fund to be approved by the National Assembly outside the national budget for the Federal Government to continue the fight against insecurity. This decision, he said, followed revelations from a security meeting between the leadership of the House and the service chiefs, held on Tuesday, September 23 2019. Hon. Benson, appointed in July as the chairman of the House Committee on Defence, said in the next four years of the 9th House, his Committee will ensure robust engagements with security agencies, which will result in achieving set goals. “I want to call on the security agencies to be ready to cooperate with us as a committee. We are here to work for Nigerians, to ensure the protection of their lives and property. Of course, the security of the people is paramount, that is why we call on the security agencies to cooperate with us. “On our part, we will work assiduously to ensure that all the operational needs of the security agencies are met through adequate budgetary provisions. This is a new era, and Nigerians will not accept anything less than good results from us all. “We will also ensure adequate and attentive oversight, especially of the 2019 budget so that we can evaluate the progress of work for ourselves and come up with the necessary ways of improving things as we prepare to receive the 2020 budget. “I, therefore, enjoin all the security agencies under the House Committee on Defence to be up and doing. They should be as open as possible to us as parliamentarians, and we would do the same to them. “We are not unmindful of the enormous tasks ahead of us and the high expectations of Nigerians on us. We have no reason not to deliver. We must get things right as far as security is concerned in this country. “We acknowledge that the military needs the support of every sector of the society and we all, from traditional rulers, the media, and citizens, have a critical role to play in assisting the country to achieve a secured society,” Hon. Benson said.