Barrister Kenneth Udeze is the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on his recent abduction in Abuja by his political opponents with the aid of people suspected to be security agents from Osun State, his travails in the hands of his traducers, and the way forward for his party. Excerpt: You were reportedly abducted recently in Abuja by people suspected to be security agents from Osun State. Could you give us a background to the whole episode? On Friday, August 30, 2019, I was just coming out of Zenith Bank, in Dutse Alhaji District of Abuja after a brief transaction in the bank, only for me to be furtively taken by hired, unprofessional and police image spoiling con men wearing police uniform, which I later found out hibernated from Oshogbo Police Command of Osun State. It was a display of excessive show of strength and cruelty, by a people acting with a specific instruction. When they accosted me, I told my driver to quickly alert my family and colleagues about the situational embarrassment. I was calm and cooperative, as you well know; a clear conscience fears no accusation. Hoping that I was to be taken to any of the police stations in Abuja, they took Zuba Road. When I protested and questioned why they were taking that route, I was criminally manhandled, even with all sorts of electrical and weaponry materials. With all that, I lost consciousness and only woke up in a cell in a place I later discovered was at Oshogbo, Osun State. My heart bleeds, and my pains still hurts, because I am still traumatised by that experience. Although I have done some medical examination on the state of my health, I am yet to recover. The annoying thing is that if I had committed any known offence, I will force myself to bear it. But, it is sad that one could go through such ordeal in Nigeria with no visible offence. Yet, the perpetrators still retain their jobs. What were your experiences while you were in detention and how you were released? You know that though we have bad eggs in the police, there are still many who conduct their affairs professionally and judiciously. By saying this, I want to appreciate some officials of the FCT Police Command, who took up the matter when my family reported about my abduction by some foul operating security men. So, to say it succinctly, I was released by the intervention and facilitation of some officers in the FCT Command, my family, party members and the press. As for my experience while I was abducted, your guess is as good as mine. In your statement after your release, you urged both the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman to investigate the involvement of their men in the party’s travails. Could you expatiate on this? It is very imperative that this IGP takes the bull by the horn and weed from the force all those criminal elements (in the rank and file) that create terrible image to the force. It is not right that these issues should be left uninvestigated. In the Police line of duty, it is incumbent on their personnel who come for this type of exercise, to report to the station and make an entry of any arrests. This was not done. I was taken away in the kidnap style. It took my people a long while to locate where they stole me to. I had nothing on me, I had no one who knew me around there, and to attend to my injuries was a difficult thing. As for INEC Chairman, I once again urge him to identify those who used their official letter head to purport the uneventful petition that their accomplice in police command of Oshogbo acted on. The police should produce that petition to INEC, and the very staff who signed that letter, with his or her collaborators must be brought forth for investigation. It may be me today, and tomorrow, it will definitely be another. So, let us stop this negative trend of wickedness. You also fingered Uche Nwosu, your party’s governorship candidate and son-inlaw to former Imo State governor Rochas Okorocha as one of those behind your travails. What could have transpired between the party and those alleged traducers to warrant them coming after you months after the elections? Uche Nwosu is nobody without the man with his feeding bottle, his father-in-law. The Uche Nwosu era in AA is over. So, let’s not dwell on him. The most important thing is that we have held our National Convention and veritable resolutions were passed. The party approved the expulsion of nine Executive Committee members in line with the party’s constitution as amended. These expelled members are as follows: Deputy National Chairman – Alh. Mohammed Abubakar, National Public Secretary – Charles Chukwuemeka, National Youth Leader – Michael Madu, National Legal Adviser – Anaukyaa Mnenge Peter, National Financial Secretary – Chief Eze Nwoke, National Auditor and three others. Our party elected Mohammed Bello as the new Deputy National Chairman, Barrister Ikenna Edozie as National Publicity Secretary, Bonaventure Akabude as National Youth Leader, Lawrence Seember Azuaba as National Legal Adviser, Ukwa Cynthia Nwamke as National Financial Secretary, Tanko Suleiman as National Auditor and three others. A communiqué signed by 25 approved members, conveyed their ratification of the dissolution of the State Executive Officers in Osun, Lagos, Cross River, Kogi, Oyo, Zamfara and Imo states. As you can see, we have moved on. Following this development, would you say you are now regretting bringing in Okorocha’s in-law and their followers to contest elections under the platform of Action Alliance? Regret is not in my domain. But surely, you are aware that with the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) Charter, AA couldn’t have lost out completely. In as much as we have intelligence of the intention of Uche Nwosu to dump AA and cross to APC where his father in-law once publicly declared as where their spirit are, we are consoled with the fact that technically, it is like AA worked for Emeka Ihedioha’s PDP, as authentic members of the CUPP. Uche was never our member, though he used our party platform and he could not conduct himself well in line with our party’s constitution and gentleman’s agreement entered with AA leadership. His father in-law, Okorocha, cost him the avoidable defeat in an election AA is ordinarily at the verge of winning, if not for the letdown attitude of his father in-law. That is why we pulled out from his ill-fated petition in the tribunal. Our relationship with Uche Nwosu was a case of same bed, different dream. What is the way forward for your party as the nation marches towards the 2023 general elections? Before we fast forward electoral events to 2023, let me inform you that in the forthcoming governorship election in November, 2019, our party has nominated none push over in Kogi and Bayelsa states. So, I urge our members in these states, to ensure that they mobilise the electorates properly, and ensure that our candidates win the two states. As for the 2023 general elections, I assure you that no one can hijack the party I have built with credible people for over 22 years from the back door because of 2023 Presidential ambition of anyone. As the principal image of AA and the National Chairman, I cannot be cowed or intimidated by failed and dubious politicians who are seeking for political relevance. We have an action plan drawn up already and we are working with professionals of different fields of endeavour to ensure its proper interpretation and realisation. I am motivated by what happened to galvanise our members to stand up and be counted.