An ex-convict and another person have been arrested by operatives of the Lagos State Task Force for allegedly stealing a tricycle at Ifo area of Ogun State.
The Chairman of the agency, Chief Superintendent of Police, CSP, Olayinka Egbeyemi disclosed that preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects, Sodiq Sulaiman and Saidi Ibrahim stole the tricycle with registration No. JJJ-706-QF from where it was parked by the road side at Ifo area of Ogun State.
Egbeyemi said, one of the suspects, Sodiq Sulaiman, an ex- convict, confessed that the tricycle was stolen at ‘Ifo’ and it was being taken to one receiver identified as ‘Mallo’ at Idi-Oro area for sale at an agreed sum of N40, 000 before they were arrested at Oshodi by the Task Force.
The suspect in his confession said: “I was released from Kirikiri prison last month where I spent seven months for not being able to produce a commercial tricycle given to me on hire purchase by the owner.”
“I was trained as a tricycle mechanic for four years at ‘Abekoko’ area of Oyo State before I came to Lagos in year 2017 and started stealing phones, bags including tricycles with one Saheed Ibrahim whom I met at ‘Akala’ area of Mushin”, he explained.
The second arrested suspect Saheed Ibrahim, a bricklayer, revealed that before both of them steals tricycles they were using motorcycles to rob innocent members of the public of their valuable items at night.
“We had stolen and sold more than 55 phones, jewellery, laptops and seven tricycles to one ‘Mallo’ at Idi-Oro area of Mushin. We sold all our stolen items to ‘Mallo’ and others at Ido-Oro and Akala area of Mushin”, he stated.
Egbeyemi said, it was after they refused to stop when they were flagged down that the task force officers chased and caught up with them at Cappa after abandoning the tricycle on the road trying to escape arrest.
While urging residents to be careful and to take proper care of their belongings CSP Egbeyemi advised members of the public to be security cautious particularly during these ‘Ember Months’ adding that officers of the agency have been deployed to strategic locations across the state to protect life and properties of the citizenry.
Confirming the arrest, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police,CP, Zubairu Muazu has directed that the two arrested suspects be immediately charged to court for prosecutions.