Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Do know that so many businesses have crumbled due to ingratitude? Do you know that some businessmen and women have lost their customers and business connections due to rudeness? Most customers have used their mouth to curse their goods before purchasing them. Most of them believe that the more they underrate or even curse the goods the lesser the prize. A good number of people have destroyed their relationship with God due to ingratitude. So, many people are delaying their breakthrough due to ingratitude, whereas the Christian life, according to the Holy Father, Pope Francis, is above all the grateful response to a generous Father. According to him, “Gratitude is a characteristic trait of the heart visited by the Holy Spirit; to obey God we must first remember his benefits.” When we remember God’s benefits the next thing is to praise for His goodness and kindness. This reflection is not just going to present the importance of praise and gratitude it will also highlight some of the reasons why we must praise God. Ingratitude is a major reason why prayers are not answered whereas praise is the key that opens the door to more favour. The more we praise God the more we are favoured. The more we are favoured the more we should praise God. To start with, praise is an expression joy, gratitude and appreciation to God for favour received. It is the highest honour given to the Most High God for His love, His kindness and His goodness to us. Praise can be expressed by words of appreciation, songs of thanksgiving, and even clapping and dancing. Some people do praise God through their preaching while others praise him through their good deeds. Praise is the glorification of God’s name. Every child of God is expected to praise God. Through praises God’s name is glorified. The more we praise God, the more we glorify His Holy name, the more we are favoured by God. Nothing on earth attracts God presence and God’s admiration as praises. God does not pay deaf ear to praises. Praise is the best and indeed the highest form of prayer. St. Augustine declares, “He who sings well prays twice.” Praises does not just double our prayers it also boast our prayers. It purifies our heart and puts us in the mood of prayer. On July 8, 2019 the Holy Father, Pope Francis declares that Human beings are called to praise God for his gift of creation. According to him,”Praise is the fruit of contemplation, contemplation and praise lead to respect and respect becomes almost veneration before the goods of creation and its creator.” All the things we find in this world is enough reason why we must praise God. Today’s responsorial Psalm from Psalm 146, invites us to praise the Lord with our soul and our whole being: “My Soul, give praise to the Lord!” The human soul is the most essential part of the human body. The soul is the centre of human being. According to St. Paul, it is the Temple of the Holy Spirit (1 Corinthians 3:16 and 1 Cor 6:19).   Psalm 146 presents several reasons why we must praise God. We must praise God because: 1. He is a faithful God: “It is the Lord who preserves fidelity forever…” (Psalm 146:7). In his first letter to the Corinthians 1:9 St. Paul declares, God is faithful, by whom you were called into the  fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Our God is indeed a Faithful God. He keeps his promises ever in mind. He does not fail in His promises as the Song  goes “He has promised He will never fail. I will follow, I will Him. He has promised He will never fail His faithfulness is forevermore, His faithfulness is forevermore. Another interesting song on God’s faithfulness declares, The steadfastness of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. New every morning Great is Thy faithfulness, O Lord! Great is Thy faithfulness. – This Song is inspired from Lamentations 3:22-23. Our God is a faithful God indeed. His fidelity is forevermore. Heaven and earth will surely pass away but God’s word and his faithful will never come to an end. Each time we remember His faithfulness we must praise His Holy Name. 2. He is a Just God: The Psalmist declares, “He does justice to those who are oppressed.” Through the Prophet Isaiah 61:8 the Lord declares, “I love justice and I hate oppression and crime. I will faithfully reward my people And make an eternal covenant with them.” Our God is not just a Just God He is also a Lover of Justice. He is the Defender of the defenseless and the Voice of the voiceless. As we meditate of God’s justice join me and sing “Awesome God – Awesome God.  Almighty God – Almighty God. We give you praise – We give you praise. Awesome God…You are highly lifted up, Awesome God. You are highly lifted up Almighty God.” As you continue to praise God you will experience His justice. 3. He is our Provider: “He gives bread to the hungry.”In his letter to the Philippians 4:19 St. Paul declares, “My God will supply all your needs.” He is indeed our great provider. He provides for our food, our clothing and our shelter. He even provides food for the birds of the air. As you sing this song He will continue to provide for you: He’s great Provider – He’s a great Provider. He’s a great provider – a great provider. He will surely provide for you, a great Provider. 4. He is our Liberator: Today’s Responsorial Psalm declares, “He sets the prisoners free.” The Lord declares through the prophet Isaiah 61:1, “The Sovereign Lord has filled me with his Spirit. He has chosen me… to announce release to captives. And freedom to those in prison.” Our Lord Jesus confirms this prophetic message in Luke 4:18. Jesus is indeed our Liberator. As you sing this song He will surely deliver you from bondage. He will set you free from your sins and sorrows: The Blood of JESUS set me free from sin and sorrow, the blood of Jesus set me free. The Blood of Jesus…” With this song and with the precious Blood of Jesus, I declare you free in Jesus name – Amen! 5. He is the Great Optician: The psalmist declares, “He opens the eyes of the blind.” Isaiah 42:6-7 “I, the LORD, have called you in righteousness; I will take hold of your hand. I will keep you and will make you to be a covenant for the people and a light for the Gentiles, to open eyes that are blind.” God is opening your spiritual eyes. Your intellectual eyes is hereby declared opened in Jesus name -Amen! Then sing with me: Amazing Grace, How sweet the sound That saved a wretch like me I once was lost, but now am found T’was blind but now I see. 6. He is our Defender: The Psalmist declares, “He raises those who are bowed down.” 1 Samuel 2:8 declares, “He lifts the poor from the dust and raises the needy from their misery.” As you sing this song God will surely raise you up.  Lord, I lift up your name above every other gods. 7. He is the Father of the fatherless and the defender of the Widows: Today’s responsorial psalm declares, “He upholds the orphans and the Widow.” According to Psalm 68:5 “God, who lives in his sacred Temple, cares for orphans and protects widows. Lifted, I am lifted; I am lifted by the Lord above sins and sorrows into the presence of the Lord. 8. He Reigns Forever: “The Lord will reign forever, the God of Sion from age to age.” The book of Exodus 15:18 declare “The LORD shall reign forever and ever.” If you want God to reign in your life then sing with me: JESUS may you reign, may you reign. Jesus may you reign, may you reign. Holy Ghost may you reign – may You reign, may you reign, You reign forevermore. Yesterday you reign, today you reign and forever may you reign you reign forevermore! From today, God will reign in your life, in family, in your academics and in your business centre. As you continue to praise His Holy name, it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!