ABUJA – The judgment of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal upholding the victory of President Muhammad Buhari in the 2019 presidential polls has continued to generate reactions. The latest being a Coalition of Niger Delta Agitators who Thursday described the ruling as a rape and mockery of democracy in Nigeria. The agitators in their reaction to the judgment stated that it has dire implications to the effect that educational qualifications may no longer be relevant for political appointments, elections and employment. In a press statement signed by the convener of the coalition, the agitators expressed shock that the judiciary could allow itself to be cowed by the executive arm of government, saying that the ruling has the tendency of fuelling desperation in politicians to win future elections at all costs. The coalition, however, warned the Supreme Court to right the wrongs of the Tribunal when it receives the appeal of the opposition party by considering the evidences. The statement reads in full: “At the general meeting of the Coalition of Niger Delta Agitators held on 12/09/2019, the Coalition hereby condemns the judgment of the Presidential Election Tribunal describing it as a rape on and mockery of the nation’s democracy. “The Coalition is totally shocked that despite all the evidences of massive rigging in last general elections in Nigeria, in collaboration with the Chairman and officials of the country’s Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies, the tribunal declared that the elections were free and fair. “In the so-called ‘landmark judgment’ delivered by the compromised Tribunal, as scripted by the Presidency, Nigerians were shocked to learn that forthwith, one can, and is indeed qualified to contest elections into different elective positions in the country with a Primary School Leaving Certificate or as Secondary School dropout as long as he can read and write. Moreover, even when such certificates are not available, people can swear to affidavits to enable them achieve their objectives. “Interestingly, since this pronouncement is coming from those who are supposed to be ‘learned gentlemen’ and the custodians of the nation’s constitution. It, therefore, means that the acquisition of academic qualifications has forthwith become irrelevant for political appointments and elections, and by extension, for employment purposes in the country. “This declaration by the tribunal just for the purpose of upholding the election of Buhari as the President and highest political office holder in the land is not only a mockery and insult to all Nigerians, but has in fact succeeded in sending a very dangerous signal to the present generation, and generations yet unborn as well as created a very bad precedence in the country. “The Coalition is also surprised that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as a principal actor in the last general elections failed to present witnesses to prove the non-existence of server for the transmission of results, or absence of election irregularities during the February 2019 elections, yet the Tribunal praised INEC and declared the conduct of the elections free and fair just to uphold Buhari’s victory. “The Coalition strongly believes that this judgment could result in an invitation to war, come 2023 elections as political actors may decide to resort to taking power at all costs through ballot papers/boxes snatching, kidnappings, and jungle justice, since the people have lost faith in the judiciary. “It is very obvious that the present regime is taking us back to the inglorious days of military dictatorship using the compromised judiciary to effect its plans. “Finally, as the PDP appeals the judgment; we want to warn the Supreme Court not to yield to pressure from the APC-led government as the tribunal did, but to consider all the evidences presented as well as the true submissions of the witnesses before giving judgment,” the coalition warned.