IBADAN – No fewer than seven persons were injured during a fire outbreak at the Nigerian Pipelines and Storage Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in Ibadan, Oyo State, on Wednesday. A section of the loading point was completely damaged by fire, while three petrol tankers were also burnt. One of the persons injured, simply identified as Moji, was caught in the raging fire and he sustained severe burns. Activities at the depot have been suspended forthwith as the usual loading of fuel had been shut down. There was pandemonium when people around the NNPC depot, including the staff, saw flames of the raging fire, and they started scaling the fence, others ran in different directions to avoid being caught by the fire. The immediate cause of the inferno could not be ascertained, but a source attributed the afternoon fire to an electrical surge. A driver of one of the affected tankers, who would not want his name in print, however, said the fire was caused by one of the tanker drivers at the loading point. He said: “I was there when one of the tanker drivers was removing his battery and using another truck’s battery to kick-start his truck. “It was when he put the battery and was hitting the head of the battery, trying to fix it, that fire sparked from the battery and the next thing we saw was a billow of fire, trapping everyone available.” The fire, which lasted for about two hours, was later put out by a team of the Oyo State Fire Services and men of the NNPC fire-fighters who struggled to put off the inferno. Members of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, the DSS, and a team of policemen were seen at the scene of the fire trying to maintain law and order. The development caused traffic logjam for motorists plying the Apata-Abeokuta road. The depot, which was reopened two years ago for operation after years of neglect, was part of the turnaround maintenance of the government to ease fuel loading and distribution. The then NNPC Group Managing Director, Maikanti Baru, said that President Muhammadu Buhari was concerned about ease of fuel distribution and supply to every part of the company which, he said, informed his commitment to upgrading storage facilities across Nigeria.