Allhaji Kabiru Ibrahim, the National President of All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), in this interview with CHIBUZOR EMEJOR, spoke on a wide range of issues bothering on food security, suspension of forex on food importation, agenda for new agriculture ministers, abandoned agricultural policies, among other issues in the sector.  Excerpts: How would you assess the growth of the agricultural sector under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari in the last four years? Well, a lot of things have happened. So many strides have been made. There are new entrants into agriculture. The production of food is quite commendable. There are many windows open to help farmers. And a number of us are keying into it. So we have never had it better than this. Investments in agriculture are more now than ever before. We believe that a lot more can still be achieved, if there is synergy between the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Federal Ministry of Agriculture. The CBN needs to work closely with farmer associations so that we can identify our members to benefit from its intervention funds. It seems there is disconnect between the CBN and Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, what do you think is responsible for this development? Well, I may not know why there is disconnect between them. It is obvious. I have seen the effects of that on the farmers. I cannot say this is the reason. I believe if they work in unison, it will augur well for the agricultural sector and farmers. The CBN is not only intervening in agriculture, it is also intervening in physical development. It has been carrying out developmental projects in various universities. The Ministry of Works has not complained. The CBN is doing what it ought to do to ensure that infrastructure is upgraded in our institutions of learning. But, the thing about agriculture is that the farmers are just one. The custodians of the lists of farmers are the Ministries of Agriculture both at the Federal and States levels. Unless you synergise with these farmers and what they see as their regulators, everybody will feel that the ministry is being alienated. I believe that the result will be better if there was real synergy between them. The CBN must not be doing one thing and the Ministry of Agriculture doing another thing. If the competence that should be looked for in Kano State, just because it is done by CBN, it is taken to Ogun State, it will not thrive. Take for instance, I have an idea that CBN is trying to jump-start ginger production in the South. Ginger is not grown in the South. Ginger is produced mainly in Kaduna State and in the North. The nature of the soil and climatic conditions are what will determine where it will be produced. If CBN brings out money for the production of ginger in the South, some farmers will just move to ginger farming and collect the money. If the harvest is not good, the money will go down the drain. I don’t think that is the idea of the intervention. The best way is to discuss this matter with the ministry for optimal result. When we look at the intervention CBN has on rice production, you go to some states, they don’t have the competence. They cannot produce that. When you look at the quantum of intervention of CBN, it is even bigger than the budget of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. That is why the Ministry may not be wrong in saying that CBN is trying to hijack what they do. I don’t think CBN is trying to hijack their responsibility. I think, CBN is intervening in the areas it thinks the government should concentrate. The important thing is that CBN should do it in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture to get better results. What about the stringent conditions the CBN has introduced before farmers could access loans? I am not sure that there are stringent conditions. It is the easiest possibility of accessing loans. Farmers need to go to commercial banks that participate, and access the loans. The money does not belong to commercial banks. It belongs to CBN. For you to get the loan, you must make sure that you are a farmer; have a good business plan, and a re-payment programme. There is an allegation that brief case farmers who are mainly politicians have hijacked the loan facility, are you aware of this development? Well, I am not aware of this development. I don’t have facts and figures of people who have hijacked the loan scheme. The CBN may not know the real farmers. The CBN may not be in constant touch with farmers. There is possibility that if you go to states, the State Government officials have friends who are politicians. It is possible that these friends will be highly favoured. Our farmers will complain if it happens, but if the CBN talks to us on this, we know our members. One of the criteria for membership is that the farmer will show us his farm. You cannot join us when you are not a farmer. This is why we are saying that CBN must synergise with organisation that is majorly constituted by farmers, and Federal Ministry of Agriculture. Misapplication of loans can be checked. When loans are given, it is expected that other farm inputs will be given. As a critical stakeholder, has Nigeria achieved food security? The issue of food security is more than just having food. To anybody to claim that Nigeria has food security, it means the citizens will eat what they want, at the time they want with appreciable nutrition value. There are many factors that would enable you to do this. One is our purchasing power. Your ability to buy the right food you want. The food may be there but you don’t have money to buy it. Like in the United States of America, food is easily accessible. I am not sure that we are there yet in Nigeria, but we are doing our best to get there. Of course, people can be optimistic and in expressing that optimism, they can make sweeping statement that Nigeria has achieved food security. Technically speaking, we have not achieved food security, but we are on the way. Everything is being done to achieve food security. Recently, President Buhari directed the CBN to stop issuing forex on food importation, what is your reaction to this directive? It is a good step in the right direction. This is what is called limited protectionism. Every country has such in place. You look at what to do at a given time to create an enabling environment. Nigeria is poised to have food security, food availability and sufficiency within the nation. There is popular food in every section of the country. The policy is not a ban on importation of food. But, government is creating hurdles to discourage importation of food into the country. No matter the level of production of corn in Nigeria, it may be impossible to export it to the United States of America. The US will bring up so many issues such as Nigeria is not doing good agricultural practices and use of pesticides. The US put all these measures to protect the farmers in the country. So, it is the same thing that is being done here. We are now being encouraged to produce sufficiently to feed the country. We are being assisted by this policy. If you notice, the rice that comes from Thailand is not fresh. The rice has been a long time in the silos. They brought them and dumped in Nigeria. As farmers, we will carve a niche with this policy. Don’t you think the government should have provided an enabling environment before implementing this policy? This argument is very pedestal. The CBN gives foreign exchange, which may be N355 to a dollar. When you go to the parallel market, it is about N360 per dollar. So, the margin is very small. People, who are making noise about this policy, are not looking at it from this perspective. It is not scientific. Do you know that paddy rice is available, but rice farmers are not getting value for their efforts? The challenge is the market. People are not buying. There is no money. Most people cannot afford to buy rice. A bag of rice is about N13, 000 now. It is so easy to critcise. Nobody will tell me that we don’t have food. We have food. Farmers are not able to sell their produce. They are not getting value for their produce. People are complaining that the value that they get from their maize is not good. A bag of maize now is between N6, 000 to N7, 000. When a maize farmer sells at N7, 000, he is not breaking even. So, it is not that there is no food, but there are many critical issues we need to address to achieve food security. The purchasing power of ordinary Nigerian needs to be looked at. Anybody that tells you that we don’t have food in the country is a liar. Do you even know that many politicians who stole money from the government are now investing in agriculture? There are four fundamentals in agriculture namely; productivity, marketing, storage and processing. We need to continue with the present policies in agriculture, until we reach the crescendo. We need to work hard to achieve it. As the National President of AFAN, what are the areas you would like the new minister of agriculture to pay attention to during his tenure? I had a meeting with the Minister of State for Agriculture, recently. He told me that his dream was to retire into agriculture. He is from Borno State. He felt that there is no business better than agriculture. He was passionate about it. Then, the Minister of Agriculture was our former Chairman in Kano State. He is a farmer. We expect them to work with farmers. They should make sure that policy goes down and reaches the farmers. I am hopeful they will do that. All they need to do is to look at the Green Alternative, and see where they need to deepen it. The policy is working. Let them have meetings with their directors and get feedback on all food value chain. The CBN needs to work with the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, following the signing of African Continental Free Trade Agreement by Nigeria; I think our farmers will do better in terms of export of their produce. What about the implementation of Growth Enhancement Support Scheme (GES), which the immediate past ministers abandoned? What is the quantum of debts that came as a result of the implementation of GES? What have we gained in terms of productivity during the implementation of GES? Analyse it. What budget did we use in the execution of GES? What is making the government to continue the implementation of certain aspects of agriculture without the GES?  When Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, was the Minister of Agriculture, he was my friend. We had very good relationship. For all I know, the CBN intervention was not there. The government had to find means of doing things to incentivize farmers. He came with GES. Everybody likes technology. From your cell phone, you get allocations of fertiliser and improved seeds. But, some people supplied these farm inputs that farmers got. Those suppliers are being owed billions of naira up till this moment. Some of them among the suppliers who are farmers complained to us. Eventually, the Federal Ministry of Finance took over the payment and assured that they were going to pay. Till now, the debt owed to suppliers has not been settled. We need to ascertain the amount of money that has been put under GES to help the farmers get farm inputs and what we were able to produce. It is after ascertaining the actual amount that we will know whether the policy was successful or not. For me as a business man, if you ask me, I will tell you that GES did not work. The quarrel I have with CBN on its intervention is that they have given to rice farmers about N170bn. Let us check the value of the total rice production against the money expended on the production of rice. If I invest N10,000 in agriculture, I expect to get N20,000. If I have invested N170bn and I got N70billion, is it working? When you look at the seeds supplied to farmers under GES, were they good seeds or not? What was the level of productivity? Under the GES, it was all-comer affairs? And the subsidy on those seeds was very high. It was more than 150 per cent. Till now, government is yet to pay those who supplied seeds and fertilisers. What are we talking about? If it had been successful, we should not be talking about debts. What is happening today is even better than GES. Nigeria is currently blending about one million metric tonnes of fertilizer. NPK with very good phosphate sourced from Morocco. So, fertilizer is sold today at N5, 500. I don’t want to condemn the past Minister of Agriculture. He did his best while he was in office. AFAN is an association. We are not a department under the Ministry of Agriculture. But, we partner with government to make it possible for farmers to get the best from what farmers do. We are advocacy group. This is where I am coming from. Was GES self-sustaining? Did it rely on government for funding? The money that was used to drive GES is a debt on government. Did it work? I don’t think it worked.  Quote me, it did not work.  Let’s look at facts and figures, and take away sentiments from it.