A former Managing Director, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Chief Ndutimi Alaibe, is the oldest gubernatorial aspirant around in Bayelsa State. In fact, he is a professional governorship aspirant. He has been in this business for about 20 years. He is still trying. For his latest effort, he got kicked in the ass by his colleagues in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), despite the money and political muscles he has delivered to the party. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network That is Nigerian politics for you. But this great man is fighting on against all odds. At last, the Senator representing Bayelsa Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Douye Diri, has emerged the candidate of the PDP for the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State. A total of 21 gubernatorial gladiators contested the primary election on September 3, 2019. Out of the 1,244 accredited voters during the party primary, Diri scored 561 votes to defeat his closest rival, Chief Ndutimi Alaibe, who polled 365 votes. Keniebi Okoko, a businessman and philanthropist came third after scoring 142 votes in the election. About 16 votes were declared invalid following multiple voting and other unrecognised patterns of casting ballots. Diri emerged from the Restoration Caucus of the PDP led by Governor, Seriake Dickson, who presented him as the preferred aspirant of the caucus a day before the election. The election of Diri as PDP’s flag bearer further reinforced Dickson’s repeated assertion that his caucus remained a dominant force in the PDP and the state. The election was adjudged free, fair and credible apart from pockets of violence that occurred during the accreditation, which was repelled by security operatives. Declaring him winner of the election, the Returning Officer and Governor of Taraba State, Darius Ishiaku, said Diri satisfied all conditions contained in the constitution of the PDP having scored the highest number of the vote cast. A breakdown of the accredited delegates, according to their local government areas, showed that 196 were from Southern Ijaw; 169, Yenagoa; 164, Sagbama and 150, Ogbia. Others were Nembe, 151; Ekeremor, 148; Kolokuma-Opokuma, 141 and Brass 125. Prior to the primary election, Diri, a former Yenagoa/Kolokuma-Opokuma Federal Constituency member, was said not to be popular enough to retain the governorship seat for the PDP in the election. It was also rumoured that he did not enjoy the support of key stakeholders in the party. Some of them recalled that Diri almost lost the Bayelsa Central senatorial election in March this year, having lost in his own Kolokuma/Opokuma local government area. He was reportedly saved by votes from Yenagoa and Southern Ijaw councils. Dickson was said to have been advised to reconsider his support as Diri could turn out to be a hard sell for the party in the governorship election. Some of the governor’s close associates were said to given him the appropriate feedback based on discreet polls conducted and endorsed by him to ascertain the true frontrunners in the governorship race. The coast is now clear for Diri towards the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state. By now, Alaibe should be a wiser man. It is better for him to seek for another office instead of the Creek Haven Government House.