Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has been urged to review the appointment of members of the board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in line with existing precedence enshrined in the Act establishing the commission. The Niger Delta Group under the aegis of Advocacy Group for Good Governance and Fight Against Corruption, made this call in Abuja yesterday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The group expressed concern over the sidelining of due process in the appointments. Addressing newsmen, the leader of the Niger Delta Group, Afred Etuk said, “our people, especially the youths, are not happy with the process that led to the nomination and selection of the new board members of the Commission.” Appealing to President Buhari to wade into the appointments controversy, Etuk said that his intervention will avert the brewing crisis. He said: “We insist that the government should not play politics with these appointments because it affects directly the lives and well-being of the people. The politicization of sensitive issues as this may not be tolerated by the agitating youth of the region. “The law establishing the NDDC provides that governors of the nine Niger Delta states, should be consulted on the composition of the NDDC Board.” Etuk pointed out that the Niger Delta leaders have spoken against the hasty decisions reached in the selection process. According to him, “Isoko and Ndokwa leaders in Delta State have rejected the composition of the board.” He added that the Isoko and Ndokwa leaders said that the appointments violated the principle of inclusiveness. Etuk further stated that the leaders said that the Ndokwa people were marginalised in the appointments, as Okumagba is an Urhobo while Prophet Erue Jones, is an Isoko. According to him, “the paramount ruler of Seimbiri Kingdom and former President of Traditional Ruler of Oil-Producing Communities, Pere Charles Ayemi-Botu; President, Isoko Monitoring Group, Comrade Sabestine Agbefe, and the Vice President General, Ndokwa Neku Union, Chief Tony Uti, said the appointments were made in bad faith. “Pere Botu asserted that going by the Act establishing NDDC, Delta state should have been given the chairmanship position which rotates in alphabetic order among the 9 Niger Delta states: Abia, Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, etc. Presently, it is supposed to be the turn of Delta State, but the position was given to Edo state.”