LAGOS – Former UN chief, Ban Ki-moon and Microsoft Founder, Bill Gates have call for funding for Climate Change Mitigation to stem the rising tide of poverty in the world. A $1.8 trillion investment over the next decade in helping communities around the world brace for the worst impacts of climate change could produce up to $7.1 trillion in economic benefits, the Global Commission on Adaptation has said.
The Commission, which is led by former UN chief Ban Ki-moon, is concerned that action needs to be taken quickly as climate events such as hurricanes; floods and wildfires are already worsening globally.
“Without action, millions of people will be pushed further into poverty, leading to increased conflict and instability,” it said in a release summarising its new report Adapt Now: A Global Call for Leadership on Climate Resilience.
It proposes making the $1.8tr in five key areas: early warning systems, climate-resilient infrastructure, improved dryland agriculture, mangrove protection, and investments in making water resources more resilient.
Climate adaptation can also deliver a “triple dividend” as it avoids future losses, generates positive economic gains through innovation, and delivers additional social and environmental benefits.
The Commission, which also counts Microsoft Founder Bill Gates and World Bank CEO Kristalina Georgieva among its members, is tasked with “raising the visibility of climate adaptation on the global agenda” ahead of the upcoming UN Climate Action Summit in New York on 23 September.
“Climate change doesn’t respect borders: it’s an international problem that can only be solved with co-operation and collaboration, across borders and worldwide,” Ki-moon said.
“It is becoming increasingly clear that in many parts of the world, our climate has already changed, and we need to adapt with it.
“Mitigation and adaptation go hand-in-hand as two equally important building blocks of the Paris Climate Change Agreement. Adaptation is not only the right thing to do, it is also the smart thing to do to boost economic growth and create a climate resilient world.”
The Commission is concerned that governments are not currently investing enough in climate adaptation and it is not happening at the pace and scale required to address the worsening impacts of climate change.
“People everywhere are experiencing the devasting impacts of climate change,” Gates said.
“Those most impacted are the millions of smallholder farmers and their families in developing countries, who are struggling with poverty and hunger due to low crop yields caused by extreme changes in temperature and rainfall.
“With greater support for innovation, we can unlock new opportunities and spur change across the global ecosystem. Adaptation is an urgent issue that needs support from governments and businesses to ensure those most at risk have the opportunity to thrive.”
Earlier this month Pope Francis called for governments around the world to take more action on climate change, saying that “the environment itself is endangered” by human action.