P/Harcourt – Communities of Oil Mining Lease, OML11, in Rivers and Abia States, have urged the Federal Government to through the Nigerian National Petroleum Commission (NNPC) take over the operations of OML11 from Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC). The communities stated that the decision was reached following marginalization against them by the oil giant, noting that Shell had taken the communities for granted. The communities spoke on Wednesday when the Conscience of Ogoni People (COP) led by its National President, Chief Gani Topba visited stakeholder communities of OML11 in Abia and Rivers States. The leader of the group, Topba had called on the Federal Government to recall the United Nations to conduct an environmental report on other communities of OML11, adding that the closure of the oil field was as a result of environmental issues. Topba urged the communities under the oil field to come together to ensure that Shell is sacked, noting that if Shell fails to bow out their facilities would be occupied by the communities. “We are calling on the Federal Government to bring back UNEP to carry out a report in these communities of OML11. I want us to work against the resumption of Shell to our area. “You must stand and shut all Shell facilities in your land. We want the NNPC to take over 100%of the oil field so that we can come back and discuss who operates our oil.” Also speaking, Chief Tochi Ogbonna, Ayama community in Oyibo LGA of Rivers State, urged the federal government to take over the operation of OML11 and not return the oil field to Shell to operate again. Ogbonna said: “Since Shell started here, no individual has been given employment in Shell. We don’t have any of our people. We are so neglected. I don’t think Shell regards us as anything. “This is an opportunity to let the federal government know that we are suffering. We are calling on NNPC to take over the oil field. They should hold it and invite us for a meeting. We want to try another company.” In a statement signed on behalf of the Traditional Rulers Council of OML11, by Chief Morgan Ulunwa, Director General of the body, His Royal Majesty, King Obioma Nworgu, the King of Etiti- Owaza, and the President of Youths of OML11, Comrade Dimgba Destiny, Abia State host communities decried the neglect. Reading the statement on behalf of the body, Ulunwa said: “We have tolerated Shell enough. Shell failed in her CSR all these decades of exploitation of our environment. Shell takes us for granted, unduly and we declare today, enough is enough. “Shell’s unsuspecting, latest obnoxious bid to regain the expired OML11 license after a long unproductive sojourn, as far as host communities are concerned, for six decades in OML11 soil is a covert display of tendencies of uncommon foreign trader-tenant that dwells on fettering greed, reminiscent of the dark days of apartheid South Africa. “We shall resist forcefully further sojourning amongst us aggressively and threateningly too. Accordingly, a committee to work out modalities to this effect is in the pipeline. We shall occupy and take over our natural oil assets, the OML11 oil fields. “Shell leave us alone. We can no longer tolerate your obnoxious antics, namely divide and rule, double standards and unrepentant cheat.”