ADO-EKITI – Some aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ado-Ekiti Local Government, on Saturday, kicked against the unexpected suspension of the party primaries. The State Secretariat of APC had announced the suspension of the exercise in the state capital citing security issue as reason. The party spokesperson, Ade Ajayi who conveyed the party’s decision through a telephone conversation, said a new date would be communicated to all stakeholders soon. This decision, however, did not go down well with aspirants who claimed to have fully prepared for the exercise, as they argued that there was nothing to suggest security breach in the seat of power. Two of the aspirants, Alhaji Tajudeen Gidado, and Mrs. Tosin Aluko, accused the leadership of the party of being undemocratic, warning that they would resist any imposition attempt. Aluko, who alleged that the leadership of the party was determined to impose a candidate, said, “I just heard it here now that the election has been postponed. I don’t want to believe it because Governor Kayode Fayemi issued a statement last week that there would be primary election and that there won’t be imposition. “We have been waiting here since morning for the primary. Some people are with Sola Elesin, the deputy chairman of the party now; they don’t want the election to hold because of the plan they have to impose one of us as the candidate. “I don’t know why they are doing this, they should allow people to make their choice because this is democracy. They are doing this because they want to impose someone. But the governor they are dropping his name has come out to say he has no preferred candidate.” One of the delegates, Adeyeye Kayode said, “We don’t know why they are postponing the election. The candidates and delegates are here and everywhere is peaceful. “We have not seen anybody except the police, who told us that they are fully prepared for the election. We are now thinking that what we heard that there wouldn’t be election in Ado Ekiti is coming to pass. We are afraid that if we leave here now they might come around 4pm and do a kangaroo election. We should allow people to participate, that is why it is democracy,” he added.