UMUAHIA – The Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Umuahia on Friday dismissed the petition against Dr Okezie Ikpeazu by Dr Alex Otti of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) challenging his (Ikpeazu) re-election as governor of Abia. The All Progressives Grand Alliance and its candidate, Otti had approached the tribunal to nullify the declaration of Ikpeazu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as duly elected in March 2019 poll. The petitioners had alleged that Ikpeazu did not win the majority of the lawful votes cast in the March 9, 2019 election. Otti came third in the election, while Uche Ogah, the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) was second in the governorship election. However, the petitioners during the trial urged the tribunal to declare the election invalid by reasons of criminal practices, non-substantial compliance with the electoral guidelines, and over voting in 788 polling units in the conduct of the election. Delivering a unanimous judgment that lasted three hours, the chairman of the panel, Justice Lekan Ogumonye dismissed the petition for the failure of the petitioners to prove their allegations beyond reasonable doubts. The tribunal held that testimonies told by 65 polling units agents who appeared as witnesses for the petitioners were not sufficient to prove allegations of over voting in 788 polling units. The tribunal held that even if there were some infractions in said polling units, they were not substantial to invalidate the entire election. The tribunal therefore held that the petitioners failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt and thereby dismissed it for lacking in merit. Speaking to journalists after judgment, Dr Paul Ananamba (SAN), counsel for the second respondent (Ikpeazu) described the judgment as “a landmark judgment borne out of thorough scrutiny and solid analysis.” Mr Olushola Dare, counsel for the petitioners said the judgment would move the law forward, but added that they would take it further. Meanwhile, Governor Ikpeazu has dedicated his victory to God and people of the state who gave him the mandate.z