LAGOS – The cankerworm called CORRUPTION has been said to be one of the major bane of progress and development in today’s Nigeria as the scourge has infected virtually in all its sectors and institutions. It is for this reason, that the present administration under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and every other government in power at Federal, State and Local Government levels, past and present have at different points made the fight against corruption a policy direction. The corruption fight invariably, is expected to be fought to the letter if Nigeria’s image which has been smeared at home and abroad must be redeemed. However, Nigeria sport industry in recent times has not fared better in the corruption menace; it has been one corruption crisis, too many, particularly in football which is the interest of majority stakeholders in sports worldwide. Super Eagles of Nigeria Chief Coach, Salisu Yusuf, in September 2018 was caught on camera collecting bribe in a sting operation and was banned for one year by the football governing body FIFA. Yusuf by this month of September have served his punishment and have been asked by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to resume his job, same title as the “Chief Coach” of the team. This development has caused a stir among discerning minds in Stanley Kubrick’s movie titled “Eyes Wide Shut.” Who does that! Even in the face of the fight against CORRUPTION?! In retrospect, it was with awe and shame of a nation watching about 57-year-old Yusuf who led the Nigeria home-based team to the WAFU Cup of Nations in Ghana (as was filmed by Anas’ Tiger Eye PI agency in September 2017) collecting cash ($1000) from an undercover journalists, who posed as agents seeking to influence players’ selection at the tournament. The former Kano Pillars and Enyimba of Aba boss was also promised 15% from the players’ contracts should they get snapped up, with the coach in turn promising the agents spots for both players at the 2018 African Nations Championship in Morocco. The ugly incidence however, caused Yusuf the opportunity to take full charge of the Nigeria U-23 team; apart from his ban which was recommended by the NFF Committee on Ethics and Fair Play; he was also fined $5000. That decision was sanctioned by FIFA; a good example of dealing with corrupts practices which the present government of Nigeria has zero tolerance for. However, a press statement recently signed by the NFF Head of Communications, Ademola Olajire, thanking Coach Imama Amapakabo for stepping in and helping in securing qualification for the U23 AFCON tournament in Egypt lives much to be desired. The statement as widely reported in the media circle states: “The NFF has noted that the Chief Coach of the Super Eagles, Salisu Yusuf has now fully served the one –year suspension slammed on him last year. “The Federation thanked Coach Imama Amapakabo for his sterling efforts while in charge of the U23 National Team in the absence of the suspended Yusuf and for eventually seeing to the team’s qualification for the U23 AFCON,” the NFF said in its statement. Just as many maybe criticising the recall, some say it falls short of popular opinion that the NFF President Amaju Pinnick may have long given the hint that this action could have been taken in an interview with the BBC months back. Thus, Yusuf is now expected to be in charge of the home-based Super Eagles side that will feature at the 2019 WAFU Cup of Nations in Senegal later this month; although there is a counter report recently that NFF may have reversed the decision. Now, the big question is – how would Nigeria be rated before the international community in its fight against corruption? Recalled that Sani Lulu, a former NFF President was enmeshed in a corruption ocean in 2010 – a charge was brought against him and three others by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The others include Amanze Uchegbulam, a former first vice president of NFF; late Taiwo Ogunjobi, a former executive committee member and Osun State Football Association Chairman and the NFF former secretary-general, Bolaji Ojo-Oba. They were arraigned on September 6, 2010, the quartet were accused of allegedly misappropriating over N1.5billion released by the Federal Government to the NFF without giving proper accounts of how the money was spent during the South Africa 2010 World Cup. They were explicitly accused of siphoning about $125,000 through shoddy hotel bookings, $250,000 lost as a result of booking the wrong airline for the trip, $400,000 allegedly expended on the Nigeria/Colombia friendly match and $236, 000 which vanished from the coffers of the Glass House in 2009. Again, ahead and during the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, it was tales of woes of financial misappropriations by the officials of the NFF, just as the Super Eagles players then went on strike over unpaid allowances with late Stephen Keshi in charge of the team. Aminu Maigari, former NFF boss too, almost lost his job following the scandals of financial misappropriations that took place under his watch – attempted impeachments were made against him but for quick interventions from above, he survived. Before and after the 2018 World Cup which held in Russia, the present NFF under the leadership of Amaju Pinnick, was entangled in corruption crisis which had the then Minister of Sport, Solomon Dalung in running battle with the body until he was dropped by Buhari. Few days ago, the NFF again came under investigation for frauds related to sponsorship money meant for the development of football according to the EFCC. BBC Sport reported that the latest investigation came on the back of a separate case brought by the EFCC and one by the Special Presidential Investigation Panel (SPIP). Wilson Uwujaren, EFCC spokesperson told BBC Sport, “What I can confirm is that officials of the NFF are being investigated by the agency.” According to the report, the investigation into the NFF will look at allegations of wrongdoing before the 2014 World Cup in Brazil. “The inquiry is focusing on money generated from the NFF’s official sponsors, domestic league’s television sponsorship and payments from a former kit supplier for all the national teams. “It also focuses on funds provided by federal and state government for friendly matches involving the Super Eagles and the misappropriation of about US$2.7 million from the Financial Assistance Programme of football’s world governing body, FIFA.” But, during the week, Independent Corruption Practices and Other Offences Commission (ICPC) raided some of the NFF officials, sized some of their properties insisting its wide-ranging corruption probe of the NFF will not be stopped by any top government official. It also announced that so far 12 houses belonging to top officials, Amaju Pinnick, Shehu Dikko, Mohammed Sanusi and Ahmed Yusuf ‘Fresh’ have been seized by the anti-graft agency. Earlier reports revealed that Pinnick and Dikko dashed off to the chief of staff of President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari and the new Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, to intervene in the matter. Rasheedat Okoduwa, ICPC spokesperson sadly as was reported said the anti-corruption agency is independent of any top government official and so it is carrying on with its massive probe of the NFF. “If we are continuing with our work, including enforcement action, then I don’t see any influence in that regard,” Okoduwa said. “If we are going ahead with our work, then there is no credence to the allegation. Our action shows that we are independent in the investigation.” The above is the level of corruption crisis at the NFF so far – stinking and shameful; but if juxtaposed with the “returned” Yusuf ’s tale, does it makes one thinks Nigeria is fighting corruption? Why won’t Nigeria for once copy international best practice and practice it well for progress and development? Glenn Hoddle, former England coach in 1999 was fired on his slur about the people with disabilities; since then till date, he has been out of any public office; Hoddle is now “born-again” and has apologised times without number for forgiveness. When in 2015 Hoddle fell ill, report had it that cruel social media trolls taunted him for his remarks about people with disabilities after he was taken to hospital in a serious condition. The ex-England and Tottenham manager has been widely mocked on Twitter for historical comments he made about disabled people being “punished for their sins” in a former life in 1999. Many users suggested his illness was “karma” for the “sins he committed in a past life” in derisive tweets making a reference to Hoddle’s comments, made in an interview with the Times. The above case on Hoddle is a classical example of how integrity should not be compromised for a plate of porridge in a serious clime that wants progress and development and where laws work; where rules are not bended. If Yusuf in due course is found on the bench in any football championship as one of the technical crew members how would Nigeria be rated internationally as its present image is even struggling for credibility. Conclusively, with the EFCC and ICPC chase of the leadership of the NFF officials and the huge allegations against them, how would world rate the credibility of football mangers in Nigeria? It can only justify the saying that “when the head is rotten, the tail is useless.”