P/Harcourt – Various social media platforms and conventional media were hummed last Monday over a carefully, but apparently wrongly, crafted report of how the Rivers State government ordered the demolition of a mosque in the busy Trans-Amadi area of the state capital, Port Harcourt. The controversial land space located right behind the Rivers State Internal Revenue Service (RIRS), otherwise known as Revenue House building and directly opposite the mami market was first noticed as a playground for kids. It later turned out to be a praying ground for Muslim worshippers on Fridays.
It is a fact that though Nigeria, by its constitution, is a secular state honed in a plurality of culture and religion, every citizen is circumspect in touching a thing as sensitive as any form of religious matter that is capable of stoking the embers of religious conflagration.
Naturally, religion has carved a major gap in Nigeria to the extent that the northern part of the country is dominantly Muslim while Christianity finds a comfortable home in the south. Over time, no much religious skirmishes and tensions from devotees have been noticed in the south, may be due mainly to the cordial relationship and tolerance existing between the leadership of government in the region and that of other religions.
Though the tension that arose from the alleged demolition of the Trans-Amadi mosque had since simmered down, as there had never been any structure erected there in the name of worship in the first place, the affected piece of land had been warped in contention over the years resulting in litigations.
The narrative from the secretary of the Rainbow Town mosque, Alhaji Aliyu Sadig is that there was a structure which he claimed the government of the state demolished without recourse to the existing preference from the court, if any.
“A building was ongoing, that is the true situation of things; the building has not been completed, it was ongoing.
“We have been there since 2008, praying there. And this is the second time demolition was done by the Rivers State government. The first one was done by Rotimi Amaechi, and now, Wike. And we have all the approvals.
“In 2010, they brought down the fence and all. The landlord, whom we bought the land from took the matter to court because the land we got was part of the ones he sold to other people too. And the case was decided on November 3, 2017, and which the government of Rivers State did not appeal the judgment. They did not appeal it.
“They have flouted the court’s ruling. It’s just like giving approval to somebody and you are turning back to collect it. That’s the scenario”.
“We are appealing to the governor… what he has done is illegal because you cannot give something to somebody and you turn back and collect it without reason or discussion with the person,” he said.
However, a High Court in the state had declared that the disputed land which is currently under the control of the Rivers State Ministry of Urban Development Board belongs to the Rivers State Government.
The Registered Trustees of the Trans-Amadi Mosque, Port Harcourt had approached the Rivers State High Court in Port Harcourt in February 2012, after the then Governor Rotimi Amaech’s administration through the Rivers State Ministry of Urban Development and Physical Planning stopped them from erecting a structure on the disputed government land without approval.
In that instance, the Registered Trustees of the Trans-Amadi Mosque, Port Harcourt claimed that the Amaechi administration through its agents and servants forcibly entered the land in dispute, fenced it up with wired fence and locked it up. The several claims of the claimants were marked Exhibits A to H1 respectively.
Ruling in Suit Number PHC/986/2012 between Registered Trustees of Trans-Amadi Mosque, Port Harcourt (Claimant) and the Commissioner, Ministry of Urban Development and Physical Planning, Rivers State, the Governor of Rivers State and the Attorney General of Rivers State (Defendants), Justice G.O. Omereji on Tuesday, November 27, 2018 said:
“It is very clear that from the above authorities, the effect of Exhibit K, the Certificate of Title in the instant case, the defendants, especially the 2nd and 3rd defendants have valid title to the land in dispute because the acquisition of the land as in Exhibit K by the Government extinguishes every prior existing title over the said land”.
Justice Omereji stated that it was clear that the claimant’s plan AI/RV/2009/013 was charged on both the Ortho-Photo map and Greater Port Harcourt Acquisition of 1959 and that the said land is within the Greater Port Harcourt.
The Court declared that Exhibits J1 and J2 clearly showed that the claimant purchased a land from Dr E.E. Amadi, which was already owned by the State Government following its acquisition by the Eastern Nigerian Government in 1959.
Justice Omereji held that: “The defendants have in Exhibits J, J1 and J2 inclusive of Exhibit K, which is the Certificate of Title, established that the land, the subject matter of this suit, was acquired in 1959 by the Government.
“My humble opinion is that the claimants have not established that they have better title to the land, the subject matter of this suit and they have not established that at the material time they were in possession and that the defendants do not have better title to the land”.
The Judge ruled that the defendants established that they have better title to the disputed land.
“My humble opinion is that the claimants in this case have not established that they have better title to the land in dispute in this case.
“The issue I have considered in this suit is to be resolved in favour of the defendants (Rivers State Government) as against the claimants (Registered Trustees of Trans-Amadi Mosque, Port Harcourt)”, Justice Omereji ruled.
The Rivers State Government in its Statement of Defence, carefully outlined its ownership of the land and spelt out that there was no approval given to the trustees to construct a Mosque on the disputed land.
In his judgment, Justice Omereji said “The Statement of Defence and the evidence of the defendants two witnesses show that the land, the subject matter of this suit is State Land acquired for public purpose by the Eastern Region of Nigeria in 1959 under the Public Acquisition law as evidenced by the Certificate of Title dated 27th Day of June, 1961 Registered as Number 26 on Page 26 in Volume 2 of the Land Registry, Enugu, now in Port Harcourt and whose assets the Rivers State Government inherited which is Exhibit K.
“The evidence also show that the claimants had no approval from the Rivers State Government to make use of the said land, prior to the use of the land for any religious or other purposes and that the defendants did not destroy any property belonging to the claimants.
“The said area where the claimants use for religious activities falls within the area acquired by the Rivers State Government as in the Exhibit K. The evidence shows that the claimants acquired nothing from Chief Dr Edward S. Amadi since Chief Edward S. Amadi cannot give what he does not have because the land in dispute has been acquired and has been State land since 1959”.
Investigation actually showed that some pillars were being erected at the place of contention by some persons. It was not clear what the planned building was meant for. There was a demolition authorized by the Rivers State Government, but this demolition order wasn’t issued because a mosque was about to spring up from the disputed location. What was demolished was not a completed property but illegally erected pillars.
“Some people used to come and worship here every Friday”, a corn seller who declined to offer her name responded when asked. “I just came back from market and saw these pillars brought down. I don’t know who put the pillars and who brought them down”, she said.
Joining his voice on the issue, the chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Felix Obuah also cautioned those peddling the rumor of mosque demolition to desist from it for the sake peace and unity in the country and Rivers state in particular.
The State PDP boss who also joined the Rivers state Governor Nyesom Wike to visit the site of the alleged demolition of mosque at Rainbow Town, Port Harcourt, condemned those peddling the rumour on the incident, describing them as “agents of the devil”.
Overwhelmed by the chain of projects execution across the State, Obuah urged the governor to keep up the tempo as Rivers people were very happy with him and should not allow the rumor of demolition to deter him.
Giving the sensitivity of religious matters in the country and how it is capable of putting sharp knife right through the butter, desperate calls were made to ascertain the altruism of the alleged mosque demolition.
The governor disclosed that he “received calls from several prominent Nigerians on the fake news being circulated online. I have come here with Reporters and you can see there was no Mosque here.
“It is most unfortunate that fickle minded persons will claim that a Mosque was demolished at this place, when no Mosque existed here. The story was concocted by mischief makers to score cheap points”.
Governor Wike explained that some persons started erecting illegal foundation at the disputed land, even though they had no approval to embark on any construction work.
“They came here to erect illegal structure. There was no approval from the State Government for any structure to be erected here.
“The persons who started the foundation had already dragged the State Government to court on the disputed land. The Rivers State Government won the case. What they attempted to do was to start the illegal construction to tie the hands of the State Government “, he said.
The Governor urged the Muslim Community in Rivers State to show him where a Mosque was demolished in the State. He advised them not to allow themselves to be used by politicians to peddle false stories against the Rivers State Government.
Governor Wike said that the State Government operates within the rule of law. He said that the State Government will not be distracted by the illegal circulation of fake reports.
He stated that several Mosques constructed on the approval of the State Government exist across Port Harcourt and other major towns of Rivers State, without the State Government demolishing them.
“The government gave them notice not to do anything on the land. But they went ahead with the illegal foundation and the relevant agency stopped them”.
There are several mosques in Rivers state, quite all right. And the governor wondered, “Why would we want to bring down any Mosque, when there are other Mosques across the State? What is the Special interest on this one?
Nigeria would have been a better place if all citizens could adhere to the belief of the head monk of the Tibetan Buddhism, Dalai Lama that “This is my simple religion. There is no need for temples; no need for complicated philosophy. Our own brain, our own heart is our temple; the philosophy is kindness”
It therefore calls for caution the statement attributed to Professor Ishaq Akintola, director of Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) who said: “Wike does not want any mosque in the state. Neither does he want to see any Muslim around him. Paradoxically, Rivers State citizens are everywhere in the country, particularly in Muslim-controlled parts of Northern Nigeria as well as Muslim-majority parts of the South West. Wike’s ability for independent and logical reasoning is highly in doubt”.