Lagos – The All Farmers Association of Nigeria, (AFAN), has advised farmers in the country to adhere to best practice in their farming practice. The call was made by Femi Lambe , the branch chairman of the association, while delivering the welcome address at a seminar organised by the association to spur members of the farming association on the need to embrace modern methods in their farming practice. Lambe noted that, “the present regime has been giving recognition to farmers in terms of facilities that will boost Agricultural productivity. These visible commitments and efforts of the present administration in the agricultural sector is worthy of commendation, such as; Agricultural Transformation Agenda, (ATA), Growth Enhancement Scheme, (GES), Anchor Borrower Scheme, (ABS), and so on”. He further assured the farmers of better days ahead in view of other intervention programmes already in place by both the government and corporate organisations designed to improve the output and productivity of farmers. In his own remark, Otunba Femi Oke, the state chairman of the association, who was represented by his Deputy, Shakin Agbayewa, said: “The association is putting everything in place to keep members abreast of cutting edge information on new farming technology that will keep them steps ahead in best farming practice, so they can maximize return on investment”. Oke spoke further that arrangements are in place to engage members in series of trainings, seminars and capacity building programmes, designed to develop them on global best practice of farming that will place the average Nigerian farmer in the same position as his average counterpart from any part of the world. He, however, advised them to have a change of mindset about farming which many of them still hold at the subsistent level. The guest lecturer and speaker of the day, Alhaji M. A. kazeem, went down memory lane by recalling the hay days of agricultural boom in the country when the fortunes of farmers was greatly enhanced and sustained by the large population of Nigerians who are interested in farming before the oil boom pushed it out of front line reckoning to the detriment of our national economy. Kazeem also gave insights into the best practice for fish farming, cassava and maize farming, urging the farmers to always seek ways to improve on their farming output.