ABUJA – The Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi, has revealed that the high poverty rate in the country is a major factor inhibiting malnutrition in Nigeria “especially in the northern states where the burden is highWhile urging federal government to show more commitment in its fight against malnutrition in the country. The Chairman Board of Trustees, Nutrition Society of Nigeria (NSN) made this known in Abuja during the Annual General Meeting and Scientific Conference organised by the NSN, yesterday in Abuja with the theme: “Promotion of Nutrition for Sustainable Development: Current trends and innovation.” According to him, “The government should prioritise its fight against malnutrition as a matter of urgency as most of the children who die from childhood killer diseases actually die from malnutrition which is the underlying factor.” He however narrated an experience, saying, it was his ‘saddest day’ as Kano Emir. On malnutrition, he said the government can tackle it by establishing an independent and well-funded agency. His words: “From my state (Kano State) alone in 2017, 58 per cent of citizens suffer from malnutrition. That basically means one out of two suffers malnutrition and those children are not likely ever to be medical doctors, computer scientist or lawyers because their congenity involvement has been retarded by a lack of nutrition in their early life. “So, what will appear as an economic problem in the next 20 years, is a continued concentration of poverty in some parts of the country, may surely not be as a result of lack of economic opportunities, but a lack of capacity of human beings to come out of those opportunities and incapacitation of the score of malnutrition,” he stressed. Also speaking at the event, the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said the government is committed to tackling malnutrition in the country. Mr Osinbajo, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Health, Abdullahi Abdulaziz, said the theme of the conference underscores the government’s belief that innovative and optimal solutions can be harnessed in addressing the malnutrition solution in Nigeria.