Alhaji Tanko Yakassai a northern elder statesman in this interview with JULIET OYOYO, bares his mind on the recent $9 billion judgment against Nigeria by a United Kingdom (UK) court, the attack on former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu in Germany by members of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), killing of Nigerians in South Africa, among other issues. Excerpts: Nigerians have continued to react to the $9bn judgment by a UK Court, against Nigeria. What is your own view on this? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Unfortunately for Nigeria, at the critical time of nation building and national development, some of the people who were opportune to lead Nigeria, were not ready for it. If you look at that issue, you will find out that two of the major issues are: How did Nigeria become a defaulter? One, is that a new government that come in knowing the problems that the government it succeeded and confronting these problems. I think, the change of government came suddenly and there were no handover notes. Even you can see that the new government that came did not know about that case. They did not have any idea about that case. So, there was no action taken. They could have taken an action, either through an appeal, or to do something that would stop the case. Most of these changes in government took place suddenly. So, those who came to power took over without handover notes. Therefore, they did not know the problems they were inheriting and prepared their minds for them as to how to overcome them. So, if you look at this issue of $9bn, it is exactly the same case. The government that came into power at that time didn’t know the problem existed and therefore didn’t attend to it, while the interest was accumulating. Most of the changes in government we had in Nigeria were as a result of coup d’état and, even those that were not so, were governments that were formed by the military people who had no idea of governance in terms of proper briefings and so on. So, they came to power because they wanted to take power for their personal ego, not because they had competence or know-how as to how to govern. This is the result of what we are now facing. Yesterday, I came back from Dubai and I came through Egypt Air and I recall telling my wife that at one time, Nigeria Airways had more fleet of aircrafts than Egypt Airlines, Ethiopian Airline, and even the Arabian Airline and many other airlines that were formed even around the time that we formed Nigeria airways and these were all younger than Nigerian Airways. A friend who was also in the aircraft was telling me as we were waiting for planes that were ahead of ours to take off, that he counted 10 Egypt Air planes that took off while we were waiting. Ten aircrafts taking off, yet we do not even have one talk less of a Nigeria Airways! This is very sad and this is why this country is like this. Do you therefore ascribe to the general view that our economy is in dire need of recovery from its downward slide? What is the way out? The reason is that there is no planning. When people come to power and they have no plan, they do not have anything to offer. One, they do not have a programme and also, know the problem. Therefore, they do not have an idea of how to overcome the problem. This is our problem now. Forget about the military coup; the current administration has been in power for four years. Both the president and the governors had no blueprint. They had no idea of the problem of the country and therefore, did not prepare a blueprint on how to deal with those problems. And, this is what is happening. You cannot take over power when you do not have plans. Therefore, they do not know what to do with the power and this is what is happening in our country now. Look at the power situation, I remember at the beginning of this administration in 2015, they said we were generating about 3,000 megawatts of electricity and they said it would be increased to about 6,000 megawatts. But now, what do we have? Instead of making progress, it has come down to 2,000 plus megawatts. If they had a plan, this would not happen. This same thing is happening in the states. The important thing for people is to be in power for self-known intentions and not for moving the country forward. What is your advice to the people in government, especially the leaders? I hope it is not too late. Now, we have a new government. You can definitely expect from the new government from their budget because without financial allocation, the government cannot achieve anything. One of the major problems in Nigeria is poverty. What causes poverty is unemployment. We are not creating jobs. Which are the areas you are looking to address, it is poverty, agriculture and industry. You cannot develop industries without power. All these will indicate to you that, unless you have a plan, you cannot achieve anything. If you do not have any plan to overcome the problems of poverty and you do not have a plan to overcome the problem of unemployment, job creation and so on, planning your economy, which area needs your attention than the other area and so on. That is why in every government, there is what you call priority areas. Certainly, there are problems, and no government can solve all the problems at once. That is why you look into multiple problems and then you chose which one needs urgent attention and you call them priority areas and then, you plan on how to overcome them. If you do not do these, you are going nowhere. There is a new trend in the country today, especially by the members of the Indigenous People of Biafra, (IPOB) who have decided to now physically attack past and present leaders. What is your take on this? Well, it is unfortunate because, till today, they are Nigerians. For them to have gone and attacked a national leader in a foreign country shows that this country is suffering from the problem of lack of patriotism. No patriotic citizen will do that, except if you are unpatriotic. It is never done. But, I do not blame them. The issue of Ekweremadu will now put foreign governments on the alert and I am sure, what happened in Germany will not repeat itself as they, especially our embassies, will now provide security for Nigerian leaders and others whenever we have leaders of significance or status who are going abroad to foreign countries. What suggestions would you give to prevent disenchanted Nigerians from carrying out such attacks on people in government? The government, as we know, has embassies all over and, whenever a public figure or office holder will be visiting foreign countries, our embassies should be put on alert which in turn, will get in touch with the countries being visited and ensure that necessary security measures are provided. Recently, many Nigerians have been reported to have been killed in South Africa. What exactly is going wrong? In South Africa, the killings of Nigerians can be likened to local problems. Yes, there are cases in other countries, but these have followed due process through courts of competent jurisdiction from their being tried, and convicted. That is not the same as killing or killings, as a result of clashes between indigenes and non-indigenes. How does Nigeria redeem its image outside the country? For any country to have respect, its citizens must be patriotic. If the citizens of that country are not patriotic, it will be very difficult for the country to get good image outside. Unfortunately, the 1966 coup was the beginning of the erosion of patriotism in Nigeria. And, the situation continued to develop unabated to the extent that we almost lost anything called patriotism among our people. In our days, it was a big honour for somebody to be called a ‘nationalist’. It was even a greater honour for a Nigerian to be called ‘patriots. Now, nobody cares whether you are called a nationalist or patriot because you are not accorded any respect and you do not show the commitment as a nationalist in this country because, the patriotism is destroyed. There is no foundation to show for it. So, we should try to reengineer, the sense of patriotism among our people. To do that, you have to have political parties have it in their philosophy and programme. So, when the people know that the parties are fighting for their own good; their betterment, then they will begin to respect not only the leaders of the party, but also, members of the party because, they know that everybody, from the leaders to the ordinary member of that party are fighting for their own good. This is the way we should do it. And, you as journalists, have the most important jobs of educating people on this issue and also, giving citizens who show commitment to the unity and progress of the nation, the kind of prominence they deserve, so that the ordinary man will begin to see them as “patriotic citizens” and accord them the same respect. Do you not think that the level of poverty in the country could have contributed to this lack of patriotism? Certainly, that is definitely correct. The people have also talked about tribalism and ethnicity having eaten deep into our systems. How do we tackle these challenges? Well, the people say, “an idle mind is the devils workshop”. When the people have nothing to do, all sorts of trivial issues, tribalism, religious differences and secularism will creep in. But, where there is a national programme, and the people are committed to these programmes, nobody will begin to think of “my tribe, religion or section”. Everybody will think of the country. Go to other countries, those issues; as important as they are, they do not play important roles in the political psyche of the country. So, this is what we need to do; one, we must reform political parties so that they must be reoriented through ideology, to philosophy to programmes what they are going to do for the people and then, the people will begin to appreciate them. And also, power, of political parties must be returned to the members. What destroyed political parties in Nigeria was the so-called position of “Party Leader” which Obasanjo introduced when he was the president. He made himself the leader of the party and then, made all the governors; he bribed them actually, as leaders of the party in their respective states. Then, you cannot be a messenger of the party at the national level if you do not get the approval or the blessings of the president. So also was it in the states. If you don’t get the blessings of your governor, you don’t get to be a messenger of your party in the state let alone becoming the chairman or secretary of the party at that level. So, the result is that people don’t realise that party member matters a lot and therefore, they take their allegiance to governors. So, the first we should do is to take back that power from the president and the governors and return it to the members of the party. You will then see party members respecting their chairmen, their party secretary, their organising secretary and attending party meetings, discuss issues in the party and hold caucus meetings and then, give the party a sense of belonging. Otherwise, nobody recognises any party man leader or whatever as everybody knows that Oshiomhole will not make you a member of State Assembly or even chairman of your Local government because he is a “nonentity’ in the party because he has that appellation of National Chairman. The other man who is national Secretary and so on as they know they are empty and have no power. But, if Buhari says you should be this or that, automatically, overnight, that you will become and the same thing with the governors in the states.