LAGOS – Ismail A. Yusuf , the Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Inland Containers Nigeria Limited (ICNL), has said the absence of inspection agencies and shipping companies are the critical challenges facing trade facilitation and Ease of Doing Business at the Nigeria dry ports. Yusuf said this in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Lagos. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The ICNL boss was responding to the experience of his company with inspection agencies and shipping companies, with reference to trade facilitation and Ease of Doing Business agenda of the Federal Government. He said: “In the last administration or regime and the present government, there was a redeployment of inspection agencies, the companies inspecting for the South West or South were asked to move to North, while those in the North were asked to move to South. “But, unfortunately, those from the South have failed to report to North and that had been hindering our documentation of export business coming from Kaduna Dry Port and going to final destination. “In that regard, if we have export now, we only store them in the cargo, we have to come to Lagos again, to do inspection, which is double handling, so also the shipping companies, we need to have their presence at the dry port since it is a designated port. “So their documentation supposed to be completed through bill of lading, ought to be issued from the port of origin as well.” According to him, “A lot of agricultural products are stocked in containers, taken to Logos ports or other ports for inspection and documentation before they are finally exported,” adding that this, apart from being cumbersome, was not cost effective, and negated the spirit of Ease of Doing Business of the Federal Government. “It is not when we stock agricultural produce in containers, we still come here and start doing documentation. This is not helping the business at all. Like you have mentioned, the ease of doing business in your earlier question. So it has not been easy.”