Dr Tunde Moses Elebute, a developmental economist and public affairs commentator, is a human rights advocate. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa, the $9.6 billion judgment against Nigeria in a UK court, among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see Xenophobia attacks against Nigerians in South Africa as well as the recent reprisal attacks on Shoprite facilities in Lagos? I strongly condemn the xenophobia attacks against Nigerians in South Africa. The attacks have continued even after both countries had spoken against the trend. It is either that the South African leaders are weak or they have not been sincere to the Nigerian government. The South African government would have taken steps to control these killings. The Nigerian government on its own has not properly addressed the issue. We should not continue to play big brother to South Africa considering what Nigeria put into their freedom under the President Olusegun Obasanjo regime. Nigeria did a lot for South Africa. Only the late Nelson Mandela appreciated Nigerian efforts. The South Arica leaders after Mandela have no regard for Nigeria. The Nigerian government should make efforts to check the killings or break diplomatic relations with South Africa. I do not support destruction of their properties in Nigeria. Rwanda is already dealing with the South Africans. Nigeria government is wasting time. If the Federal Government takes over the South African businesses here, then South African will sit up. During Obasanjo’s time, the government nationalised Barclays Bank and British Petroleum and Britain sat up. Zambia also is taking actions against South Africa. If small countries like Rwanda and Zambia as well as Democratic Republic of Congo have taken steps against South Africa, why cannot Nigeria, the giant of Africa, do something to check South Africa? If South Africa does not accept peace, Nigeria should make them feel the pain of the evil they are doing to us. Nigeria should not fold its arms and watch its citizens being killed. See how they killed the top insurance lady who went to South Africa for a programme. If diplomatic steps do not work, Nigeria should take a serious step against South Africa. Liberians cannot forget what Nigeria did to them during Babangida period when Samuel Doe was in power. Every Nigeria in South Africa cannot be thieves. South Africa should pay compensations to Nigerians they destroyed their properties. South African government should apologise to Nigeria and Nigerians for what they have been doing. Even our musicians were singing and our government was working, putting pressure on Britain to give South Africa freedom. What is your take on the recent $9.6 billion judgment against Nigeria in a UK court? I believe if our Ministry of Justice had taken the issue seriously, and pursued it effectively, the issue could not have gone to that extent. I believe the Ministry of Justice is ineffective. They are not proactive. The ministry has not been proactive under Abubakar Malami, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation. They should have taken time to look at the issue and sent powerful legal representation. We have highly respected and reputable lawyers in Nigeria. The Federal Government should have used them to defend that case. We have big lawyers like Agbakoba, Olanipekun, Falana and others. Why should the Ministry of Justice under Abubakar Malami allow Nigeria to be messed up? If they do not negotiate properly and reduce that amount, the people in that ministry should resign. I hope someone in that ministry is not benefitting from the ills of that ministry. Do you think President Muhammadu Buhari’s new ministers can take the country to the Next Level considering the poor performance of the administration in the second term and the fact that some of the poorly performed first term ministers were also reappointed? Even during the first term, where did they take Nigeria to and they are talking the Next Level? What is Chris Ngige still doing in the Ministry of Labour? What is Abubakar Malami coming back for with all the things happening in the Ministry of Justice? We thought President Muhammadu Buhari could have given us the best of the bests since this is his last term. They appointed the ministers based on political reasons. We have a lot of experts in Nigeria and abroad. Rotimi Amaechi and Babatunde Fashola made some efforts, as well as Audu Ogbe. One hopes the new ones will do well. I wish them well. I hope they will take us to the Next Level. May be, the new one in Sports, Sunday Dare, will do better than Solomon Dalong. But, I don’t see the new ministers performing miracles, except God intervenes. I have no doubt that about Fashola and Amaechi. I see Kyari doing well in the NNPC, going by what I have heard people say about him. We have some people in the government who can spring pleasant surprises, but not all of them can. Let them work more than talking. In the first term, they were economical with the truth. Where are the bags of LAKE Rice? We do not see them in Lagos. They are not also seen in Kebbi. Where is the rice the Federal Government was speaking too much about? APC was talking too much. Let them give us actions, not propaganda. People are hungry. Unemployment rate is very high. Nigerians are being killed everywhere. Buhari should serve this country well in these four years and go home peacefully so that the people will respect him. He should sack any non-performing minister and put someone who is effective How would you react to the alleged division within the Presidency over President Buhari’s successor and the hint that Babagana Kingibe has been tipped, while Babatunde Fashola, Kayode Fayemi Kola Abiola and Amosun are penned down for the position ofs vice presidential? Would you say that it would augur well for the All Progressives Congress (APC) to take the 2023 Presidency away from the South? Let me warn them not to do it. If they do, certain things will happen. Let them continue with zoning system and give South the chance to rule. If not, APC will split and the party will lose. South West, South East and South South will unite and drive away APC. This will create problems in the country. People will collude and form another party that will be stronger to send APC packing. Buhari may be the last APC president. Nigeria may break and there may be problems if APC denies South the opportunity to rule. APC will give room to Southerners to feel that North is not reliable. This may lead to some crises. Buhari should prevail on APC and allow a Southerner to succeed him. With the crises in the Bayelsa and Kogi chapters of the All Progressives Congress (APC), do you think the party can do well in the November 16 governorship elections in these two states? That is what crises can lead to. United we stand, divided we fall. APC has to reunite. It will pain APC to lose Kogi. They should unite and solve the problems they have in that state. PDP is strong in Bayelsa. So, APC may not feel the loss of Bayelsa as it will feel if it loses Kogi to PDP. APC leaders have not done well in solving problems within the party. But, this is because of the love of money. If not, should Yahaya Bello come back again? Someone who has not been paying salaries and you want to return him! What happened in Oyo State may happen in Kogi if APC does not take time. But, I don’t see APC winning in Bayelsa. APC should reunite very well if they want to control Kogi and win Bayelsa, if not, they are giving more winning chances to the PDP.