ABUJA – The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Deputy Commissioner of Police,DCP, Frank Mba yesterday paraded 58 suspected criminals arrested across the country for various crimes ranging from kidnapping, armed robbery, car theft, unlawful possession of firearms and murder. While parading the suspects at the Special Anti – Robbery Squad (SARS), Headquarters in ABUJA, the Force Spokesman said out of the total number of 58 suspects only one was female who is incidentally a citizen of the People’s Republic of Cameron. According to him; “The suspects were arrested by the special investigation and operational team of the Special Tactical squad (STS), Inspector General of police, IGP Intelligence Response Team, (IGP IRT). The suspects were arrested from different parts of the country in connection with different crimes, majorly, kidnapping, armed robbery, ‘one chance’ and murder.” He said, a total number of 18 assault AK-47 riffles, 1233 rounds of live AK- 47 ammunitions, nine pump action, five single barrate rifles, One Automatic Pistol, Hand Grenade and a total of 53 live Cartridges were also recovered from the suspects.” DCP Mba further added that, the suspects were comprehensively investigated and clear cases of kidnapping, homicide,armed robbery and unlawful possession of weapons have been established against them. Some of the suspects paraded were said to bemembers of the gang that kidnapped three students of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), who were recently kidnapped along ABUJA Kaduna Expressway. One of them, Usman Umar who confessed to have been part of the gang that kidnapped ABU students said, they collected N5.5 million ransom. Adding that, they bought army uniforms from Kaduna state saying each uniform cost them 15, 000 naira. Another syndicate alleged to have mastermind the kidnapped of one honourable member of the Kaduna State Assembly who was kidnapped in Kaduna state were also paraded. This was as the suspects who carried out the kidnap operation of the Turkish nationals in Kwara state were also paraded. The Police Spokesman also said, they have in their custody, a group of suspected armed robbers that operated largely in Rivers state while disguising as members of the Nigeria Legion. Among those paraded by the police was a suspected criminal who specialised in picking up passengers in the metropolis of FCT and robbing them while on transit. According to Mba, the female suspect, aged 30 paraded by the police,specialised in luring male Nigeria victims into a hotel and sedating their drinks and then stealing their belonging. “She sedate his drink in a hotel, and took his car. But was however arrested when the man got himself back and reported the matter to the police. Through concerted effort by men and officers of the Nigeria Police, she was tracked and arrested in Auchi, in Edo State after she and her accomplices sold the car and moved to Jos, Plateau state on their way to exiting the country. The suspect who spoke to journalist said; “I and my sister travelled to Auchi to sell the car for N1.6m and N1.5m was deposited in my account.” Some of the suspects Kabiru Adullahi, a 30 year suspected kidnapper and cattle rustler who spoke to Daily Independent confessed to have abandoned cattle rustling for kidnapping along Kaduna Abuja Expressway. He said, one of their kidnapped victims paid them a ransom of N10m but their boss, Buhari, still at large declared only Six million which his share was just N450, 000. Meanwhile, the FPRO used the opportunity to advised Nigerians to desist from giving rides to persons they do not know and or allow themselves to be given rides to by persons they do not know. 