D’Tigers and other four African teams will tip off their search for the 2020 Olympic Games Africa’s sole ticket today with four of them in action. No African team made it to the second round of the World Cup. The last time African teams reached the second round was in 2006 in Japan with Nigeria and Angola qualifying. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While Nigeria , who placed third in Group B will play neighbouring Cote d’ Ivoire that placed fourth in Group A in Guangzhou, Angola that placed third in Group D will play Group C fourth placed team, Iran. African champions, Tunisia that missed second round qualification by whiskers and placed third in Group C will play Group D fourth placed Philippines. The last African team, Senegal will play Germany on Saturday in Shanghai. Going by results of all the African teams, Nigeria stands a better chance of winning the ticket, but must beat Cote d’ Ivoire and also ensure victory over the winner of China and South Korea tie in the next round. D’Tigers statistics stand it out as the likely winner of this contest. Between the two teams, Nigeria stands higher in shooting percentage with 47.7 to Cote d’ Ivoire’s 40.4 from two points field goal, while from the three points arc, Nigeria’s 38.8 percent shooting is better than that of Cote d’ Ivoire at 33.8%. Nigeria’s shooting percentage from the charity line stands at 76,6% to that of Cote d’ Ivoire’s 68.9%. In total Nigeria’s shooting percentage stands at 48% to that of Cote d’ Ivoire’s 38%. Other statistics are also mind blowing. While D”Tigers generate an average of 18.7 points per game from Turn overs, Cote d’ Ivoire has made an average of 10.7 points. Fast breaks points shows that Nigeria can run the game if given the opportunity as it has generated an average of 14.7 per game to Cote d’ Ivoire’s 5.0 per game. Second chance points has given Nigeria an average of 11.3 points while Cote d’ Ivoire has generated 8.7 points per game. Points inside the paint has given D’Tigers an average of 38.7 per game with Cot d’Ivire generating 24.7 per game. Points from the bench showed that Nigeria has a better bench to Cote d’ Ivoire as D’Tigers have poured in 44.0 points per game to that of 14.7 for Cote d’ Ivoire.