Prophet Isa El-Buba is the Founder of Initiative for Brighter and Better Nigeria (IBBN) and President, Evangelical Bible Outreach Ministries International (EBOMI). In this Interview with ONOJA AUDU, he spoke on insecurity, continued detention of the Shi’ites leader, El-zakzaky, and Omoyele Sowore, the Convener of the Coalition for Revolution (CORE), among other issues. Excerpt: What is your assessment of Nigeria’s democracy? I am deeply pained by the unfolding events each passing day. As citizens, we have the responsibility of saving our nation. Our desire is to see Nigeria as a democratic nation where democracy is practised in practical terms, where the people’s freedom is guaranteed. I am deeply pained over the fate of the Shi’ites and the arrest and detention of Mr Omoyele Sowore. When the current leaders were in the opposition, they mobilized Nigerians for protests and were allowed to push for a change of government without hindrances. Now that the same people are in power, the reverse has become the case. People who now want to rescue the nation are now being hounded and clamped into detention. It is baffling. Now, Nigerians can no longer carry out peaceful protests without being killed by security forces ot clamped in indefinite detention without bail, even with the aid of the courts, which should be the last hope of the common man. It is pathetic situation. President Buhari was one of those who led a protest in the past and he was not arrested of anybody. The sitting President at that time, Goodluck Jonathan allowed everybody to voice out their pains. The government listened to them and worked towards addressing the situation them. The current administration does not want to condone the opposing views in a democracy. What is your view on the continued detention of Comrade Omoyele Sowore and Shi’ites leader, El- Zakzaky? The clampdown on people trying to share their pains is unfortunate. The truth of the matter is that as of today, we have lost over 43 percent of our foreign investors coming to Nigeria. I was in Britain in the past few days. What I heard from Nigerians in Diaspora was not appetising to the ears. They expected that thing would work out well in the country so that they could return home to contribute their quota for the development of the country. But, where is the security now? The situation has become alarming. We cannot continue to deny the truth. Falsehood will lead the nation to destruction. How do you think the Federal Government would bring the current security challenges to an end? Well, we saw what happened in Zamfara State few days ago where the bandits that were the freedom of benedicts who should have been called terrorist were negotiated and they were paid ransom, while people that were innocent are being proscribed and termed as terrorists. We cannot be building a nation of falsehood and think that we can have a good society. Any society that will work must be table to face the realities and look at things objectively and critically so as to bring healing into the system. The question is: These bandits that are killers. Although it is not every Fulani man that is a killer, but the killer Fulani herdsmen, where did they come from? How did they suddenly taken over everywhere in the country? Now, people cannot even travel freely on the roads. The situation is the same in the South West, South East and South South. There is palpable fear everywhere. These are the ones we should call terrorists. What is your take on the response of security agencies to these security challenges? If the way security agencies responded to those calling for revolutionary, they have responded the same way to cases of criminality, banditry and kidnapping across the country, there would have been a difference and Nigeria would have become a better country to live in. Ironically, those calling for a better Nigerians are being treated like criminals, while the real criminals go on rampage, killing and maiming the citizens. We are getting to a state where if Nigerians do not force the government to do what is right, we will be the ones that will suffer it. And the suffering will be for a long time. For me and few Nigerians, we have chosen to fight the right fight of faith to awaken this government to a reality of what has been going on which are not right. The economy has been bad. The state of insecurity has remained all-time high. For the first time, the rate of suicide in Nigeria is very high. Nigeria is now coming tops in the world’s suicide index. The rate of suicides in the country in the last few years has become alarming. Terrorists are wasting our security men. The soldiers are being wasted in Borno. Many things are not being reported in the media. We are relying on eye witness reports. Terrorists now kill Nigerian soldiers like fowls and goats. Where are we heading to? The truth is that things are not well. I appeal that the President should wake up to face the reality. We want to see a Nigeria where our economy is really working, a Nigeria where we will see new breeds of Nigerians who will shun greed, a Nigeria where we will see righteousness enthroned. God said that the throne of a king should be established on righteousness. The throne of the nation’s leadership is not established on righteousness. Certain people have been taken to court on the issue of corruption, while a lot of corrupt public officials are walking free. Government should not be playing two cards, while it lays claim to principles of integrity and honesty. In the Senate today, a party that claims to be fighting corruption have sent several people who have corruption cased to the National Assembly as lawmakers. Nigerian situation has become very pathetic and we have become laughing stock in the international community. Even people who had been lawless are now principal officers in the legislature. The politicians are playing on the people’s intelligence, toying with the future of Nigeria. Is it not baffling that someone who was fingered in the stealing of the mace is now a Deputy Senate President? Nigeria needs a system change. What will the current situation you are talking about lead Nigerians to? I cannot tell. Unfortunately, these people are supposed to be fathers and leaders. But, under them, Nigerians are seeing the worst type of leadership. There is a lot of rots in the system. The evidence is all over. There is a lot of hypocrisy in governance. We have to face the reality. We need to build this country on the basis of truth, not falsehood. The government claims that the system is working, yet hundreds of Nigerians are being killed and kidnapped by the day. Our children are dying from hunger and squalor. Yet, the government claims that the system is working. I have travelled across the country. Although I have seen certain projects going on, they are not commensurate with the amount of money that had been budgeted. No one can even give accurate account of what has been recovered from looters. I feel a lot of pains. I feel so much for the younger generation. I have seen so many youths of this country whose future is not certain because of the crop of leaders that we have. If we don’t do what is right in this country to help ourselves, nobody will do it. No American will fix our country for us. No Briton will fix our country for us. No foreign nation will fix our country. We are the people that will fix our country and make things work.