The 691st Lord Mayor of London, Alderman Peter Estlin, spoke exclusively to India Today TV and touched upon many topics including ways to expand bilateral ties between India and the UK. During the interview, Peter Estlin extended his greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 69th birthday. Estlin condemned the attack by alleged pro-Pakistanis on Indian High Commission in London after the abrogation of Article 370. He, however, added that the sole purpose of his visit is to attract business in the fintech sector. He also spoke elaborately on the importance of ‘ease of doing business’. Below is a detailed excerpt of the interview: Q. You are here with a business delegation? What is the focus and expectation of this visit? A. The overall objectives are to strengthen the bilateral objectives and partnerships between India and the UK. As the city of London, we are promoting Fintech and financial services more broadly. We are also keen on attracting Indian businesses to the UK. So we are looking to promote the UK to India as also to promote India to the UK. Q. What are the concerns that UK businesses have when they look at India? Are there concerns? A. Totally the opposite. India is a very attractive market place in terms of both scale and innovation. Prime Minister Modi’s outline in terms of his intent is clear. It is the knowledge partnership that both sides are looking at. We are here and we have got an opportunity for British businesses with some knowledge and specific capability to partner with businesses here in India with their scale and distribution. The same is also true to take some of that capability, that innovation that is taking place in India and export that to the UK and beyond the UK to other countries. These are the opportunities. Q. Are you prepared for the post-Brexit scenario in doing business with India? There are concerns here and India is seeking clarity. A. I have been really focusing on “beyond Brexit” the whole year because the sheer scale of innovations taking place has got nothing to do with that micro relationship between the UK and Europe. What we are looking at over here is the digitisation of our industries, looking at green bonds, environmental issues and all of those opportunities that are coming out of, what I call 21st-century opportunities and is what we are focused on. There is clearly a frustration in the context of Brexit and we want to deal with it and have it clarified but in practice, the world is not stopping for Brexit. Q. What are the deliverables in the fintech industry? A. Examples would be to continue to partner with businesses that are already in the UK so as to stay back in India but also to focus on new businesses in India that have just launched in the UK. But equally, I am bringing in a delegation from UK businessmen to look at opportunities in India. An example would be Aon, which is an insurance company and tying up with some platform businesses here in India to look at how we can build on some of that capability and expertise to the benefit of India. Q. Are there many takers for all these ideas here in India? Also, India in itself is a technology hub. What are you taking from India? A. I have been a regular visitor to India. Deals can’t happen overnight but we build on it. Last year there was a visit by the Lord Mayor. If I look at the delegation that came with him then, a number of deals have come out of that. The delegation that I have got with me, we may secure deals while we are here this week, but over the coming months, we will secure deals for sure. We would like to foster that partnership and in that recognise the sheer scale that India has to offer with the knowledge and expertise that we have in the UK. Q. You are here on a day when Prime Minister Modi celebrates his birthday. He has been promoting the idea of ‘ease of doing business’. Have UK businesses felt the change? A. Wishing Prime Minister Modi a very happy birthday. His overall objective of opening up India and the decision has been to develop India into a digital economy. So, today we would be meeting with invest India and looking at that partnership and you would be hearing some announcements on that fairly soon, in terms of bilateral engagements with the UK. So, that’s the area of opportunities, that sheer scale of innovation and how we can tap into each other’s markets but also use that capability to tap into other markets around the world. Q. What is your take on the easing of visas in certain categories by the UK but a lot more needs to be done? A. The city of London has been promoting the agenda of creating continuing access to talent which is really important. Take the fintech industry, for example, 42 per cent of their industry are international citizens. So it is really important that we have continued access to international talent. I applaud the government in terms of the latest announcements but also the consultation period which was open to allow the business to influence and put forward recommendations on how to attract skill so we do create a truly open economy which is the desire of the government. Q. There have been attacks on the Indian High Commission in London by anti-India, pro-Pakistan elements. What are your comments on such incidents? A. I have seen some of the news. Broadly the situation is one that would have to be dealt with politically. Certainly, violence is not something that anybody supports. But I am here to promote businesses and that is the underlying mechanism on how do we strengthen engagements so that the governments can sort out political issues.