Osogbo – The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for resolving to appoint him as Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria despite stiff oppositions from some quarters.
Aregbesola spoke in Osogbo, Osun State capital at weekend at a state grand reception to commemorate his appointment and the victory of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola at the Supreme Court, reaffirming him the winner of Osun governorship election.
He said that “We thank God that the President did not forget the past and what we have in common, which is the development of our people”.
The minister then assured that he would put in his best in line with the promises made by the President to justify the appointment.
Aregbesola was delighted that his administration as a governor was successful and was able to put in place another administration that has been consolidating the efforts, urging the people of the state to support him and his successor with prayers to succeed in their engagements and make the people of the state proud.
Earlier, Governor Oyetola had told the gathering how himself and his predecessor in office, Aregbesola, were able to make it as a governor and minister despite the opposition.
Oyetola said throughout the period of the legal tussle against his election, thing were tough, but with the support of the people and his belief in the will of God, he was confident that he would eventually be victorious.
He said, the legal battle which he had thought would be easier considering the massive support of the people for him during the election became tougher, but with God, he was able to triumph. “God later crowned our success with the appointment of Ogbeni Aregbesola as a minister,” he said.
Noting that Aregbesola has laid a solid foundation for the development of the state in his eight years as a governor, Oyetola said, “the development that will come under our administration which has already been started will be massive”.
“We believe God that we will have enough resources to execute our plans for the development of this state. With the efforts we are putting in, people of Osun will never be disappointed and will not regret supporting us.
“Osun is a progressive state and the developmental stride here will continue. I feel very happy taking over from Aregbesola and because I was part of his administration, it was very easy for me to pick it up from where he stopped.
“People have already seen what we are doing in the area of infrastructure, security, health, education and others, but these are just the beginning of many good things to come”, Oyetola stressed.