ABEOKUTA – Samuel Adeogun, the Ogun State Programme Manager, Value Chain Development Programme (VCDP), has underscored the need for capacity building for herdsmen on new technologies of rearing livestock without destroying farm produce. Adeogun, who stated this during a stakeholders’ meeting on ‘Farmers and Herders Conflict Reduction’ held at Obafemi Owode Local Government, noted that the training would not only improve the productivity of their livestock, but also increase the revenue of the herdsmen. He stated that the meeting became imperative to bring about conflict resolution mechanism to the controversy of herdsmen and crop farmers in the state, which had led to loss of lives and properties. He noted that it would bring about mutual respect to players in the value chain, as key stakeholders would form a committee to reduce the conflict. “Part of the efforts of the VCDP is to bring the Fulanis, the farmers and other key stakeholders together with the belief that forming a committee for resolution, will help minimise the raging con
flict between the farmers and the herders. “The resolution of this meeting is going to be put forward to another State level engagement, which will cut across all the local governments,” Adeogun said. In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Abosede Ogunleye, said the Ogun State government was committed to finding a lasting solution to the farmers’ and Fulani clashes. She said the government was putting machineries in place to regulate the activities of the herdsmen, as this according to her, would boost productivity and income generation. She further revealed that a conflict resolution committee was being set up in all the five local governments the programme had been held, adding that plans were underway to set up the committee at the state level. She assured that peace would soon spread to other local government areas and the state at large. “We have been able to meet with them at the state level to have peaceful resolution meetings, called their leaders and they told us the measures they have taken to put an end to the nefarious activities of immigrants causing havoc on farms across the state.