Senator Douye Diri, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa state has expressed appreciation to the PDP family in the state, saying his victory in Tuesday’s governorship primary is a collective effort. In a statement by his campaign organisation, Diri also enjoined those who contested with him in the primary to join hands with him as he begins a tour of the eight local government areas in the state on his plans for the people if elected as governor in the November 16 governorship election. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While promising to move the state to greater heights, Diri who currently represents Bayelsa Central senatorial district also expressed gratitude to the outgoing governor of the state, Seriake Dickson as well as the national leadership of the party for a successful primary. “The Senator Douye Diri Campaign Organization expresses its deepest appreciation to delegates at the just concluded Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary in Bayelsa State for electing him as the flagbearer of the party for the November 16, 2019 governorship election”. “We are humbled and elated by the massive show of solidarity and the sacrifices made by the delegates to ensure that the distinguished Senator emerges victorious in what has gone down as the most competitive governorship primary in the state”. “Our heartfelt gratitude also goes to our amiable leader, His Excellency the Honourable Henry Seriake Dickson, Governor of Bayelsa State for his display of uncommon political leadership and sagacity”. “Let us also commend the national leadership of our party and the Governor Darius Ishiaku led committee for a job well done, especially for allowing a level playing field” “We also appreciate PDP leaders and stakeholders, women, youths and Bayelsans for their support, prayers and wise counsel since we began this journey to move our state to greater heights”. “We acknowledge the efforts of other aspirants who gave their best shot for the ticket. Our victory is a collective one so we enjoin them as true party men to stand with us as we move closer to making this project a reality”. “In the days ahead, we shall storm communities across the eight local government areas to present to our people what we are bringing to the table in the next four years. It is going to be an interesting voyage as we intend to use the opportunity to discuss facts on competence, the prosperity of our people and stable governance as a whole”.