Barrister Roland Oweilaemi Pereotubo is the President, Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide and the President General, All Ethnic Nationalities in Niger Delta. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU, on ministerial allocation to the Niger Delta by President Muhammadu Buhari, the FBI corruption list recently released by the Federal Government, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: What is your reaction to the ministerial allocation to the Niger Delta? Would you say that it has assuaged the feeling of marginalisation of the region by the Federal Government, especially under the Buhari administration? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network There is nothing spectacular about the ministerial portfolios given to the Buhari appointees from the Niger Delta. Though I commend Mr. President for Chief Timipre Silver’s portfolio as the junior Minister of Petroleum, that in itself is not enough to assuage our feelings of marginalisation in the government. We still need constructive engagement. Buhari should spread the sensitive offices in the government to cover the entire nation. Given all the sensitive offices to his core northerners poses threat to our existence. It seems that some persons are more Nigerians than others. The larger Nigeria population feel marginalised with the way Buhari composed his government. As for the Niger Delta, we are still being treated as people who gave him 5% votes. The ministerial appointments are our constitutional rights. Such cannot assuage our feelings of marginalisation As a lawyer, do you think Abubakar Malami performed well enough to deserve reappointment as Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation? I have strong reservation for the AGF. To me, Abubakar Malami ought not to be in that office again. He did not only abuse his office in the first term by serially disobeying court judgments against the government, but also desecrated the sacred temple of justice. If Buhari is serious about entrenching sanity into Nigeria’s body polity, he should not have been abusing his powers. The President has destroyed the tenets of democracy which stipulates separation of powers. He has fused both the legislature and the judiciary into the arm of the executive. The AGF was the willing tool Mr. President used to render the judicial arm impotent. Such a person who is now seen as the enemy of the very citadel of justice we all swore to uphold, should not be in that exalted office. To what extent would you say the 16-Point Agenda presented to the Federal Government during President Buhari’s first term has been well implemented? If not, what advice would you give to the administration in this second term? None of the agenda presented by PANDEF has been implemented. Buhari paid no single attention on them. It is dangerous that the Federal Government is gambling with the peace we are enjoying in the Niger Delta. Giving deaf ears to our historic demands is only postponing the dooms days. We are very certain that President Buhari is not ready to address the grievances of the Niger Delta people in his time. What we are concerned with is the fact that the government ought to have consolidated on the gains of the peace in the oil sector by responding to the yearnings and aspirations of the Niger Delta people. PANDEF’s 16-Point demands captured virtually all our needs. Would you agree to the notion that the current administration has been practising autocracy rather than democracy? If so, how could there be a change? Nigeria under Buhari is descending into a police state. The manner in which the government responds to the concerns of Nigerians shows that the current administration is practising autocratic system. Instances abound where Buhari took an undemocratic steps to suppress dissent voices. The attack on the armless IPOB members and its proscription was a clear case of dictatorship. The way and manner it swooped on the #RevolutionNow peaceful protesters together with the Gestapo styled invasion and arrest of Mr. Omoyele Sowore, the leader of the group, is another classical case. The selective anti-corruption war against rival political opponents and his old-time enemies are pointer to the fact that Buhari’s government is not only autocratic and fascist, but the country has also descended into a full-blown dictatorship. My advice for President Buhari is that he should use this second term to rewrite history by proving to Nigerians that he is now a repented democrat. Let him rule the country with the mindset that Nigeria is practising constitutional democracy. Let him respect all the democratic norms which include placing the rule of law above national security, or his executive whimsical powers. The Coalition for Revolution (CORE) has been agitating for a revolution to usher in real democracy and better life for Nigerians, leading to the arrest and continued detention of Omoyole Sowore, CORE convener and promoter of #RevolutionNow peaceful protests. Do you think the group is right in their agitation? Do you think it is right for the Federal Government to term Sowore’s action as treasonable felony? I have said it before. Nigeria is practising constitutional democracy and as such our constitution permits right to peaceful assembly. If people called for revolution under this circumstance, to me, is only telling the government to take drastic steps to address the lingering problems. Revolution in this concept means the government should not be seen as cynical in addressing the problems of insecurity in the land, the dwindling economy as well as the growing hardship which have reduced Nigeria to the world’s headquarters of poverty. Mr. Omoyele Sowore and his group only called the government to action. Honestly, Buhari is being lukewarm to the myriads of problems ravaging the country under his watch. If some groups of persons protest in order to draw his attention to the cries of Nigerians, why should that mean a revolution to topple the government? The group only exercised their civil rights permitted by our constitution to draw government’s attention. President Buhari should release Sowore and address the problems of the country. Nigeria is bleeding and it needs serious clinical attention. What is your take on the release of a list of FBI suspects by the Federal Government and the order that they should submit themselves to security agencies? There is nothing wrong in what the Federal Government has done. By that singular act, we are sending a message to the world that Nigeria detests criminality. Those fraudsters only brought international embarrassment to Nigeria. I support the government’s action by publishing the list of FBI suspects. The government should continue to take steps to tell the world that we don’t support criminality. I must commend Buhari’s speech in Japan where he said the action of those few Nigerians did not reflect our national values. That is the truth. The entire country should not be criminalised by the acts of some few individuals. How do you see the jostling in political parties for the November Bayelsa governorship election? I do not see anything new in what is happening in Bayelsa State. All I can say is that political parties should play the games by the rule. The interest of the state and the Ijaw nation should be their utmost concern.