Senator Douye Diri, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)) in this interview with journalists in Abuja, speaks on his emergence, efforts to reconcile aggrieved aspirants and other issues. TONY EZIMAKOR brings the excerpts: Since you emerged the governorship candidate of the PDP in Bayelsa have you made effort to meet other contestants who ran with you to solicit their support? To work with you?. I earlier alluded to it. We are making efforts; we are still on if even now as I speak. We are still continuing. We are calling, we are moving to them, we also using their friends, brothers to ensure we come back together as a party. You can agree with me that party politics in Nigeria is not the way it is in other climes, that is why even when I was in the House, you see people crossing over to other parties with ease. We are not there yet I believe we need to consolidate on what a political party is. Beyond getting control of governance, political party has other functions it owes its members such as educating members of the party and bringing about cohesion within the party and all of that. But here, we zero in to the political party as just being avenue to grab political power. I think we need to move beyond that. And that is why it is really difficult when people come into a contest like this and before you know it somebody is already moving away to the opposite party, not just any other party but the opposite party, that will actually give you a fight of your life. So that’s the way I see it. What I read about political parties in books is different from what I see in practice in Nigerian politics. But to answer your question directly, we are trying our best, we are talking to them, we reaching out to them. Even this morning, I had discussions with some of them .Many of them have promised that they are not going to any other political party, that they sit back ,work with the party and ensure that the party wins .If I win the election I’m not winning as Douye Diri. I’m being nominated by the PDP so it is actually the PDP that is winning that election. I’m not saying we are home and dry. No, we are not there yet because at the end of the day we want to get everybody on board, all the 20 of them to come back to the fold. How are you managing the Timi Alaibe factor? He was the frontline candidate of the party before you emerge. What are you doing to get his support? Like I told you earlier, in my remarks, I worked with him for 10 years and also to let you know that myself and Timi Alaibe are from the same local government area. He’s from Kolokuma, so he’s my brother, that’s why I say we are not home and dry yet. We are still talking to ourselves, we are still approaching, politics is like marrying a wife or going to look for a wife to marry. Maybe these days it is very easy but in our time , a woman can take you one year to woo. We are still in that process. I still see him as my brother and believe he sees me as a brother. Specifically, I do not believe that there is any one of us that is indispensable; I don’t believe so, including myself. No one of us is indispensable. But I agree with you, he’s a factor. He came into the race and did very well, like any other person. Everyone in that race out of 21 of us was in that race to win. Everybody was in that race to win. I don’t think that there is anybody that would like to go and throw away N21million. If somebody comes in with that kind of money, then you can be rest assured that he wants to win . But maybe the odds was not in his favour. So we are trying our possible best to still talk to him. We are engaging our brothers back home, we are engaging friends just to ensure we have a common front so that we can face our adversaries, because I don’t see them as our political enemies. And to also correct an impression, yes we have a fight in front of us but I don’t see the other people as having been so strong on ground to fight. If we have free, fair transparent election, APC cannot win a councillorship election in Bayelsa State .That’s the truth. So all these hype about “Federal might ” , using security agencies to intimidate or using INEC to go and write result, that’s the propaganda we have been receiving. And our appeal here is that the security agencies must be professional. INEC must be an unbiased umpire. And if there is that level playing field, I can assure you that the opponents are neither here nor there. What level of consultation have you made to the former President and what kind of support are you getting from him.? Maybe it is the sitting governor that I mentioned in my remarks, The former president was my governor. I worked under him as commissioner, so that tells you the relationship that I have with him. But before then, even when I was Executive Secretary, he was deputy governor under the late Alamesiegha . We have known ourselves for a long time before he became President. While I was in the House of Reps, there was a probe panel on the former president and it was myself and one Boma Goodhead from Rivers State that scuttled that probe panel where a decision was taken by a committee that the former president be invited to a committee not even the floor of the House. We found that very ridiculous and that brought a problem between me and the chairman of the committee from Kwara state. I was visibly angry because of what they were doing because I believe that no former president has been so humiliated in the way they wanted to humiliate President Jonathan. And the question I asked then was that Is it because he is from the minority they wanted to humiliate him?. I think that was how that was put to rest. So, I have a very cordial relationship with the former president and he was one of those key persons I consulted. There are allegations that the sitting governor is planting you so that you can cover his back. What are you doing to reassure the people of Bayelsa that you are a man of your own? From the little CV I read before you here, it will be very clear to any doubting Thomas of who I am , what I stand for and why I even accepted to work with the current governor. I told you that when Governor Silva was in power for five years I did enter into Bayelsa State. That tells you I am a man of principles. I chose my friends and I chose those I want to work with. And I chose to work with Governor Dickson. I worked with him and I am very, very satisfied working with Governor Dickson. Ask me why. There was a bill that was introduced into the Bayelsa House of Assembly, called transparency bill. Monthly transparency briefing, where you tell the state what comes into the coffers of the State and what is expended. And because of my privileged position in the engine room of government, every month when the Federal allocation comes and the IGR comes in, we sit together in a committee where the governor, the deputy governor, my humble self, the commissioner for finance and all the finance related people sit together and allocate what came into the state to the various ministries, departments and agencies. And so at that point I knew that Governor Dickson was not taking anything out from what was coming in. So when people say I will be a stooge to cover, I wonder what I want to cover up, having known that this was the process until I left for the national assembly.