ABUJA – The Federal Government yesterday expressed its commitment to partner foreign investors in the development of its Free Trade Zones in a bid to boost the economy and create jobs for the citizenry. Amb. Mariam Yelwaji Katagum, the Minister of State, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, stated this in Abuja during her meeting with a delegation of foreign investors from Ohio State in the United States of America led by a Nigerian partner, who is also a Director in the Horizon Metals Limited, Mr. Munir Umar. The Minister maintained that the creation of Free Trade Zones was of high priority to the present administration as a means of creating jobs for teeming Nigerians. According to her, “The creation of free zones is high priority of government; we really want to create jobs for our people”. Katagum explained that the development of the free trade zones in the country would provide job opportunities, wealth creation and boost the nation’s economy. She further stated that both the Federal Government and the delegation would engage in stakeholders’ discussions to look into the timelines, investment opportunities and the number of jobs to be created. She expressed appreciation to the delegation for indicating interest to invest in Nigeria, adding that the visit was coming at the time that President Muhammadu Buhari’s Next Level agenda was kicking off. The minister further assured that the Federal Government would continue to create an enabling environment and improve the ease of doing business in Nigeria. Earlier, the Chief of Operations, Crimson Gate Consulting Company, the technical partner, Mr. Brent Dyke, informed the Minister that the company was interested in investing in Nigeria particularly in Bauchi state which he noted has a lot of similarities with Ohio State in the United States of America. He said his company planned to invest in the development of mining, manufacturing and other areas of production with a view to reinvesting part of the profit back into the locality for Nigerians to be empowered. He added that the Free Trade Zones to be developed would be of immense benefits to both parties as there would be no barrier in the movement of goods while value addition would be done within the zones