Germany’s top diplomat said Tuesday his country has been working to readmit Sudan into the international economy after the military’s overthrow of autocratic President Omar al-Bashir in April amid mass protests against his three-decade rule. Foreign Minister Heiko Maas landed in Sudan’s capital, Khartoum, in the first such visit to the African country by a top German diplomat since 2011. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network His trip was part of Germany’s efforts to help overhaul Sudan’s battered economy and reach peace with armed groups, which remain among the top challenges facing the country’s new administration. It came two weeks after the formation of a power-sharing government by the pro-democracy movement and the generals, which will rule Sudan for a little more than three years until elections can be held. Maas told a joint news conference in Khartoum with Sudan’s newly appointed Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok that Berlin would discuss with the international community ways to end Sudan’s international pariah status. He said his government would also discuss with the parliament, or Bundestag, in Berlin ways to co-operate on economic development with the new government in Sudan. Maas also met with Gen. Abdel-Fattah Burhan, head of Sudan’s Sovereign Council. He said he “stressed the importance of transferring power to a civilian government.” The United States named Sudan a state sponsor of terror in 1993, and the designation stuck through the al-Bashir regime. In 2017, Washington began a formal process to delist Sudan, but this was put on hold when mass protests began in December. Moves to delist Sudan could resume once the country’s political situation has stabilized. Hamdok, the prime minister, said he has held a “long discussion” with the U.S. administration about removing Sudan from Washington’s list of countries sponsoring terrorism. “We are expecting a big breakthrough that will lead to removing Sudan from the terror list,” he said. “It is a convenient circumstance.”