LAGOS – Many had thought that All Progressives Congress (APC) would by now have a learnt a big lesson due to the loss of Rivers, Taraba and Zamfara states in the 2019 general elections. But, it is surprising that the ruling party is about committing the same blunder it did in those three states earlier mentioned. The Kogi State chapter of the APC after making around N360 million from sale of nomination forms to aspirants, was on Monday engulfed in crisis after the Governorship Screening Committee disqualified 12 aspirants from participating in the governorship primary, which was held on Thursday, August 29, 2019. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The six-man committee led by Senator Hope Uzodimma only cleared the incumbent governor of the state, Yahaya Bello, and three other candidates in persons of Hassan Bello, a member of the House of Representatives, Ekele Aisha Blessing and Abubakar Bashir. None out of the three family members of former governor of the state, late AbubakarAudu, was cleared to participate in the primaries. According to the committee, some of those disqualified either had invalid nomination, or were not financial members of the party. Aspirants disqualified include: Yahaya Audu, Mona Audu, Mohammed Audu, Danlami Mohammed, Babatunde Irukera, Rukkaya Ibrahim, Sani Lulu Abdulahi, Patrick Akpa, Mohammed Onaili, Yakubu Mohammed and Usman Jibril. The disqualifications generated an outburst on the part of the aspirants, which forced them to immediately rush down to Abuja and address the media on the development. Addressing journalists on behalf of other aspirants, Irukera alleged that the process was deliberately skewed to favour the state governor and his allies. According to him, “The August 29 primary is already compromised; I find it difficult not to come to that conclusion. Even if the clearance is done tomorrow, the momentum is gone.” In his reaction, Mustapha Audu described his disqualification by  the party authority in connivance with some members as a fraud, just as he claimed that he had been sending money to the party and has bank transfer notifications to show as evidence. According to him, “Every time the party called that they need money, I have always been giving them, even though the party has never issued a receipt,” he said, even as he accused the national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, of doing the bidding of the state governor, instead of ensuring a level playing ground for all the aspirants. “I have been trying to reach our party chairman on several occasions through calls and text messages. But, he has never responded, only to be seen gallivanting around with Yahaya Bello. Also, the chairman of the screening committee personally told me before the screening that his job was to remove 12 people, but ended up removing 14 aspirants.” On his next line of action, he threatened that what happened in Rivers State would repeat itself in Kogi, insisting that he would challenge the party decision in court. “It will be the Rivers situation. What happened in Rivers was that they went to court and the court told them to hold on till the court decided but they went ahead with the primary, which made the court decide that APC will not have a candidate in the last governorship election in the state. “If you want to beat someone in the game, you need to beat them squarely not by cheating other aspirants after we have paid tens of millions for this. They collected our money with no single orientation or meeting,” he added. However, in what seems to be an apprehensive reaction, the party on Wednesday issued a statement through its National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, saying five more aspirants had been cleared increasing the number of cleared aspirants to nine. Issa-Onilu listed the cleared aspirants to include Yahaya Bello, Hadiza Ibrahim, Yahaya Audu, Sani Abdullahi, Abubakar Bashir, Danlami Mohammed, Yakubu Mohammed, Hassan Abdullahi and Ekele Blessing, just as he listed the seven candidates not cleared to include Mohammed Onaili, Usman Jibrin, Mustapha Audu, Rukkaya Ibrahim, Patrick Akpa, Babatunde KunleIrukera and Muhammed Audu. According to the APC spokesman, “The National Working Committee (NWC) has deliberated on the reports of the screening and appeal committees for the party’s Kogi governorship aspirants. “After a comprehensive review of the submissions by the two committees, relying on the party’s guidelines and the provisions of the Electoral Act, nine aspirants were finally cleared to contest the August 29, 2019 Indirect Governorship primary. Seven other aspirants did not meet the requirements for participation in the exercise,” Issa-Onilu said. Ironically, Irukera, who was initially listed among those who were disqualified, was announced late Wednesday that he successfully met the conditions provided by the party’s guidelines for the nomination of candidates within the time granted to clarify his claims. Irukera’s eventual clearance followed a protest by a group under the aegis of Kogi Mandate Group, which stormed the APC secretariat in Lokoja on Tuesday chanting different protest songs and carrying placards with various inscriptions such as “APC, learn from Zamfara”, “Irukera is our choice”, “Irukera must participate in the primary election”, among others. Speaking on behalf of the group, Amos Alfa expressed surprise at why the party’s screening committee decided to disqualify their choice of aspirant. The primary election, however, took place on Thursday with the party adopting the indirect method of voting, and in the end, Bello emerged as the flag bearer of the party. After the primary election on Thursday, Yahaya Bello emerged the winner, after polling 3,224 votes, he was followed by Irukera who polled 109 and Baiwa who had 44votes. While announcing the results, the governor of Jigawa State, Badaru Abubakar, who was the returning officer, said Yahaya Audu scored 10 votes, Sani Lulu Abdulahi (7 votes), Bashir Gegu (4 votes), Blessing Ekele (0), Iyoma Hadiza (0), Yakuba Muhammed (0) and Dalami Muhammed (0). He, however, urged the contestants and delegates alike to accept the result of the election in good faith. Not satisfied with the outcome, Irukera told newsmen that the election was fraught with irregularities, adding that the exercise fell short of acceptable norms. Another aspirant, Bewa staged a walk out from the Confluence Stadium, Lokoja venue of the primary, alleging that the primary had been compromised. The last is yet to be seen as observers in the state are eagerly waiting for the November 16, which has been fixed for the election. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT gathered that some of aggrieved aspirants, especially those who were edged out during the screening process, have started romancing with some of the opposition parties in the state and one of those parties is the Action Democratic Party (ADP). The party may end up being a direct beneficiary of the looming mass action against the APC. It was reliably gathered  that some of the aggrieved aspirants are already in with the leadership of the ADP with the intention to back one of them. The National Chairman of ADP, Yabagi Sani, on Tuesday disclosed that the aggrieved APC aspirants had approached the leadership of the ADP, adding, “I can confirm to you that we are discussing, and I can confirm that we in the ADP will ensure a level playing field for all, unlike what they are experiencing in the APC. A member of the APC in Kogi State, who spoke with our reporter on the basis of anonymity, said, “We knew there was a game plan from the beginning when the National Working Committee said we are going to use the indirect primary. Some of us knew they all preferred Bello to go for a second term, their reasons for that I do not know. “This is a governor who has seriously under-performed in his first term in office but the party still deems it fit to return him for another term. This is just laughable because I don’t know why we have refused to learn from the past. Already, some of those who were disqualified have threatened to go to court while others may be forced to move to another party. Yahaya Bello has emerged though, but I can tell you that even some of those delegates who voted for him did so because they were influenced with money. November 16 is almost close by and the people of Kogi will speak with their votes, I am just sad because I know we can’t win the election.” A public affairs analyst, Kolade Sekoni, who is from Kogi State, but resides in Lagos, also accused the APC of refusing to learn from its past experience. He pointed out that the party lost Rivers, Taraba and Zamfara states due to lack of internal democracy. According to Sekoni, “For some of us, we gave the party the benefit of doubt when they came in 2015 with the late Abubakar Audu unfortunately death took him away in the course of the election and here we are today. From nowhere came Yahaya Bello, who has done nothing meaningful from his day one in office. If you travel to Kogi today, you will see the meaning of poverty in the state. I am not surprised at the underperformance of Bello. This is a guy that was not prepared for the job. Dino Melaye and his cohorts were the one who went to bring him, just because they never wanted James Faleke to become governor. “I don’t need to tell you what Bello and Dino relationship is today. They have both become night and day, they don’t want to see each other eye ball to eye ball. Because of Yahaya Bello, Dino has gone to the PDP and it is certain, he will emerge the PDP’s governorship candidate and once that happens, APC can kiss the state goodbye because in Kogi State today, Dino has become very popular. “It is a very grievous mistake for the APC to have handed over their ticket to Bello. He has failed his party and the people of Kogi State at large. Probably, the APC is believing that they can rig this election but that is a big joke and serious mistake, we are resolute in Kogi and we won’t allow them to do to us what they did to the people of Osun State. For some of us from that state, we are mobilising already and when the time comes, we will go to our state and ensure that our people do that which is right. We won’t put up with another four years of Yahaya Bello,” Sekoni stated. Mohammed Audu, had earlier warned that the party could lose the state to the PDP if the primary was not free, fair, credible and transparent, insisting that only free, fair and credible primary would save the Kogi State chapter of the APC from being defeated in the November 16 governorship election in the state. But, the party seems to have taken this warning with kid gloves. Another public affairs analyst, Benson Aduku, was of the opinion that even before the November 2019 gubernatorial election is done, the APC is already on its way to losing Kogi State. According to Aduku, “One would think the APC have learnt their lessons from the mistakes they made in Zamfara and Rivers that cost them dearly in those states, but it appears they are set on repeating the same mistake in Kogi state as they continue to turn away from decisively stemming the crisis that has been brimming since the fateful general elections in 2015 that saw one candidate win the gubernatorial election but another take over his victory. “As it stands, Kogi under Yahaya Bello is in serious trouble. Since Bello emerged governor of Kogi State, rather than serve and promote the interests of the Kogi people, he resorted to, and continued advancing his egocentric and avaricious interests to the chronic detriment of Kogites. Under Bello, Kogi people’s mandate has been debased. This is the first time in Kogi political history that we see government being run like a sole proprietorship. Yahaya Bello does not only run Kogi state as a supermarket, but has committed a progressive range of unpardonable blasphemies against justice, equity, and good conscience. “The last general election, particularly the presidential election was a success in Kogi but not because of Bello. It took the intervention of the vice president, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo for the aggrieved stakeholders of the APC to agree to work for the victory of the party during the last elections. But as it stands, the factions have split again and have returned to warring; and the indecisive attitude of the vice president and party hierarchy in dealing with the problem show they are not really serious about retaining their hold on Kogi State. “Without mincing words, Yahaya Bello is bad market for the APC in Kogi state. He has battered the image of the APC in Kogi to the extent that it defies every attempt at rehabilitation. Now that the APC has decided to field Bello for the November 16, 2019 governorship election despite his terrible undoing, then I can confidently tell you that the APC is on its way to losing Kogi state.” All eyes are on the APC, just as they are on Dino Melaye whom many believed has all it takes to challenge Yahaya Bello and the APC in the forthcoming election. But it is not yet clear whether the PDP will hand over its ticket to Melaye on a platter of gold, even though Dino had once declared “It is a battle of no retreat, no surrender. I am ready, I am willing, I just need the support of our elders and the generality of our people. Above all, I have consulted God and there is no network failure between God and I. Anytime I call upon Him He picks my calls, He doesn’t give me missed calls. “Most importantly, my mother recently joined the angels, so I have celestial support too. In view of all these, before my political elders and fathers and all the people of Kogi West Senatorial District that are here, and those that are not here, I hereby announce my intention and decision to run for the governorship of Kogi State in 2019.” Confirming the popularity of Melaye in the state, Sekoni said, “I visit home regularly and I try to talk to the people and I can confirm to you that people are beginning to fall in love with Dino, you and I may not like him but the people of Kogi will prefer him to be their next governor. In Kogi West today, you dare not badmouth Dino, else you will get into trouble with his people. Sincerely, APC has just served into the hands of the PDP. Quote me, Dino will emerge the next governor of Kogi State.”