The United Nations yesterday unveiled a new initiative aimed at ensuring that decent job creation and protecting livelihoods were at the centre of countries’ efforts to boost climate action.
The organisation has however, urged countries to join the new initiative.
Mr. Antonio Guterres, the Secretary-General, UN who made this known on Thursday, said the new “Climate Action for Jobs” initiative would be presented at the Secretary-General’s 2019 Climate Action Summit on Monday 23 September at UN Headquarters in New York City.
“The initiative has been developed jointly by the Climate Action Summit, together with the International Labour Organisation and other members of the Summit’s Social and Political Drivers Action Area, co-led by Spain and Peru.
“The initiative provides a roadmap for ensuring that people’s jobs and well-being are at the centre of the transition to a carbon-neutral economy.
“Some 1.2 billion jobs or 40 per cent of world employment rely directly on a healthy and stable environment. Jobs cannot be sustained on a dying planet.
“The new initiative calls on countries to formulate national plans for a just transition, creating decent work as well as green jobs, and sets out specific measures for inclusion in these plans, including: assessing the employment, social, and economic impacts of climate action Implementing skills development and upgrading measures”, Guterres said.
It would be recalled that the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Guidelines for a Just Transition, adopted through tripartite consensus, offer a framework to guide the transition to low-carbon economies that countries can make use of.
According to ILO, measures to green the production and use of energy would lead to net job gains of some 24 million jobs by 2030.
As emissions increase to record levels and global temperatures continue to rise, the Climate Action Summit aims to galvanise actions that would reduce emissions and build climate resilience.
It would launch concrete initiatives that governments, businesses and people everywhere can join to boost climate action.
Guy Ryder, ILO Director-General who would be attending the UN Climate Action Summit on September 23, 2019 said: “The actors in the world of work – governments, employers and workers – have a key role to play in developing new ways of working that safeguard the environment for present and future generations, eradicate poverty and promote social justice by fostering sustainable enterprises and creating decent work for all.”
Implementation of the initiative would be spearheaded by the ILO, with support from other partners in the Social and Political Drivers Action Area, including the B-Team, the International Trade Union Confederation, and the International Organisation of Employers.