LAGOS – National President of the Dr Fredrick Fasehun faction of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), Aare Prince Osibote, has charged the newly inaugurated members of the organisation to display integrity, also urging them to be men and women of honour. Osibote, who gave this charge at the inauguration ceremony of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the organisation, appealed to the executive members not to be carried away by the spur of the moment, just as he appealed them not to deviate from the vision of the founding father of the OPC, late Dr Fasehun. According to the National President, “The election and subsequent inauguration of the National executive officers of the OPC marks a watershed in the annals of the great platform for the Yoruba nationality in Nigeria and in the Diaspora. It denotes a new chapter in the copious and rich past of a race with famed nobility, service and wisdom.” While noting that that the inauguration comes with a huge responsibility and an obligation to exhibit the minimum standard of behavior, Osibote stated that it behooves on each and every member of the executive to lead by example. He also implored them to see themselves as having the privilege and honour to be counted and selected “to lead at this period in the chequered history of the OPC. You must carve a niche for yourself individually and collectively as having served diligently, conscientiously and faithfully our great people of Yoruba Land when you were given a rare opportunity. “Because we are an ethnic nationality with an immense sense of history, other ethnic groups, nationalities and race look on to the Yoruba for pace-setting and progressive agenda. So, we have been handed over the banner of sustaining the spirit behind the others acknowledging the Yoruba as the number one in progressive ideas and ideals,” said Osibote. Some of those inaugurated include: Abdulsalam Ambali (National Leader); Odunayo Ogunmoye (National Coordinator); Lateef Lawal (General Secretary); Kazeem Lawal (Public Relations Officer); Kamoru Olamoyegun (Financial Secretary); Sherifatu Lawal (Women Leader), among others.