ADO-EKITI – Since its establishment in 2011, the Federal University, Oye- Ekiti (FUOYE) had contended with a number of crises with attendant fatality. The university took off on a shaky note having suffered a protracted crisis of identity. Recall that the first newspapers’ publication announcing its establishment named Ikole- Ekiti as the host, but months after that another official document released from Abuja named Oye- Ekiti as the authentic host of new university. Sadly, the development triggered hostility between the two communities and after weeks of violent protest which claimed no fewer than three lives in Ikole-Ekiti, the then Governor, Kayode Fayemi, who had insisted that Ikole – Ekiti remained sacrosanct, however pleaded with the then President Goodluck Jonathan to approve a two – campus model as a way of ending the crisis and avert imminent communal clash. FUOYE thus became the only federal university with two campuses in different communities. Since then, FUOYE had continued to gain media attention, mostly for wrong reasons. The most recent being the clash involving the students and some security team attached to the convoy of Ekiti First Lady, Erelu Bisi Fayemi . Mrs. Fayemi had embarked on a weeklong advocacy and women empowerment tour to the 16 Local Government Areas of the state. The governor’s wife had successfully held her programme in four council areas before the unfortunate incident. Some angry students of FUOYE from the two campuses had converged on Oye-Ekiti to protest epileptic power supply to the institution. The students reportedly went wild when they discovered that the governor’s wife was in town for a programme. It was learnt that attempts by security operatives to contain the unruly protesters from causing full scale breakdown of law and order led to confusion. At the end of the melee, two students were confirmed dead while several others, including journalists and some security agents sustained various degrees of injuries. Public and private properties including about 10 vehicles on the entourage of Mrs. Fayemi were vandalised. The incidents had generated reactions from stakeholders, as well as well meaning Nigerians. Some wondered why a supposed peaceful protest degenerated into full scale violence and deaths. Sunday Independent gathered that some political thugs allegedly infiltrated the ranks of the protesting students and took advantage of the crisis to wreak havoc. Another dimension to the matter was the protracted dispute between the Vice Chancellor, Professor Kayode Soremekun and a section of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). The crisis had assumed ethnic and tribal dimension as some lecturers now accused ASUU of plotting to annihilate non Ekitis from the institution. It was alleged that the strain relationship between the Vice Chancellor and ASUU had polarised the students’ body. Unfortunately, the incessant crisis had blinded whatever academic gains the university had recorded in recent times. The issue has now assumed political dimension, as some politicians are using it to settle scores and get at their political adversaries. A former students’ leader who was at the scene of the mayhem explained how he tried to prevail on the students from allowing the situation to get out hands. The activist who pleaded anonymity said, “As soon as I realized that the situation might escalate, I called the FUOYE Students’ Union Government (SUG) President and advised him to announce that the protest had been suspended. “I also challenged him for allowing students to carry dangerous objects rather than placards and traditional chatter of demands, but he was not ready to heed my advice. I told him that as an experienced student activist, there are times one cannot manage the situation once you allow yourself to be messed up. It is very unfortunate that we had to lose two students because of a mere protest “the source lamented. Another issue that fuelled the crisis was the fact that the university had a number of young students who had never witnessed students’ unrest. Many of them exhibited their youthful exuberance, believing that protest was about destruction of people’s properties. The university management had since announced the closure of the institution indefinitely while the Students’ Union Government was also proscribed. The statement signed by Professor Soremekun also said a high powered panel of enquiry had been set up to look into the remote and immediate causes of the unrest. Giving her own side of the story, Mrs. Fayemi said, “On September 10, we were billed to visit three local governments – Moba, Ilejemeje and Oye. The first two stops were just like the ones before – peaceful with no incident. While we were at Ilejemeje, we received a call from our advance security team that students of the Federal University of Oye (FUOYE) were protesting against lack of electricity in Oye town. We were told that more information would be provided on the situation. Shortly after we received words that the students had dispersed and the coast was clear for my visit. “When my convoy got to the Oye-Isan junction, we were met by a convoy of excited Okada riders who led us into Oye town. We made a stop at the primary healthcare center along the road for me to present delivery kits to pregnant women. There was no sign of any trouble. We proceeded to the venue of my town hall meeting at the civic center in Oye Local Government. The atmosphere was very peaceful, the women were singing and dancing and there was nothing to indicate that anything was amiss. I stopped at the tent erected for the mobile health clinic in front of the civic center to greet the elderly patients who were being attended to, and I also went to greet the beneficiaries of the Food Bank for the elderly project (Ounje Arugbo), who were assembled under another tent. I then proceeded into the hall for the programme.” “Half-way through our event, there was a disturbance outside. The FUOYE students (and possibly infiltrated by local thugs) had re-grouped and were trying to get into the venue. The security officers prevented this from happening. We finished our programme, and by the time we got outside, we found that vehicles from my convoy and those of my guests that were parked outside the venue had been vandalised. As we were driving out of Oye town, we encountered at least two road blocks that the students had mounted to prevent the movement of vehicles. I could see students/thugs throwing stones and large sticks at us as we drove by. “However, the casualties that were recorded did not take place while I was there. There are eye-witnesses, photographs and video footage to confirm this. “There are reports circulating that the crisis occurred because I refused to address the protesting students. This is totally false. I did not encounter any group of students when I got to Oye town. They had dispersed before my arrival, and when they regrouped I was inside the venue. It is possible, as I stated earlier, that the group that came to the venue trying to gain access with sticks and stones in hand might have included local hoodlums, but there was no way of telling the difference. “ “I am scandalized and shocked beyond words to hear that I instructed security officers to shoot at students. “Yesterday morning, as I was driving past my office in Ado-Ekiti, a group of women were gathered there to protest. They are members of a Female Sweepers Association, who were protesting a cut in their monthly salary by the previous administration. They wanted me to help them. They were very polite and pleasant. I listened to them and promised to pass on their message to the appropriate authorities. These two protests happened on the same day. If I had met a group of protesting students, as a social justice activist myself, I would have listened to their complaints and addressed them.  I firmly believe in citizens’ rights to protest on issues of concern. “ “I am deeply saddened that at least one fatality has been recorded. As a mother my heart bleeds. All these students are my children, and no mother prays to weep over their offspring. “I extend my sincere condolences to the family concerned, and I wish those who are still receiving treatment a speedy recovery. The Obirinkete Tour has been suspended pending a review of what transpired yesterday. I thank friends and all members of the public who have expressed concern over this. God bless you all.” Meanwhile, national leaders of the students union across the campuses have met with the management of the Federal University Oye- Ekiti with a view to finding a lasting solution to the crisis. Led by the President of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Bamidele Akpan, the unionists said they were in Ekiti to get first hand information about the tragic incident and other sundry issues bordering on students’ welfare. While addressing the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Soremekun and other council members, the NANS President who described the incident as most u fortunate also hinted that the police officers who allegedly carried out the killings have been identified. The NANS President urged the management to commence the process of reopening of the institution and lifting of ban on students union activities. “We met with families of the two students who were killed by those uncivilized police officials.  We have identified those who shot our students as the men of Counter Terrorism Unit of the police. “We are here on a very sad note first to sympathize with the management and students of the school on the unfortunate students. We have been in Ekiti for three days doing fact finding.  We had sent an advanced team to see if and to ensure that students with capacity to foment trouble are not allowed to do so. No students have been seen fomenting any trouble. We identify with you in this kind of grief and assure that our supports are with you. “What had happened in Oye wouldn’t have warranted the presence of the CTU who are trained to kill. What happened here was peaceful according to our investigation. “Students didn’t vandalize or destroy anyone’s property. Unfortunately, we were told that trouble started after the protest when those who came to give security back up to Her Excellency, the First Lady of Ekiti State, were in town. “Having completed our fact finding, we came to the realization that our students did what they had to do within the ambience of the law. Students have been protesting in other climes and no student was killed. “I give those students of FUOYE kudos for conducting themselves peacefully. We have had cause to caution hoodlums who took advantage of the protest to foment trouble. In this case, none of that had happened, students protested peacefully and after all that the president was summoned by the Chief Security Officer to the Governor and that was when trouble started. “When we were with the mother of Joseph Okonufua who was felled by the police bullets, she narrated the painfully story of late Joseph and how she had struggled to pay fees of the young man through thick and thin, hoping that one day, he would became a graduate and take care of her at old age but unfortunately Joseph is now dead. For a very long time in my life, I have never had reasons to cry but yesterday I wept because I saw a young man who was full of aspiration, who would have been the Governor of Edo State, who had the tenacity and energy to attain that height, but who had his life cut short because of the mindlessness of some heartless policemen who shot him. “We even learnt that he went to the hospital where the first student, Kehinde, was shot, he came back and was shot when he was armless. And I realized that it can be anybody. “One thing is sacrosanct, that your students were orderly and peaceful, to that extent we are satisfied with what they did. We can only call for peace and say everyone should allow peace to reign. “We met with the Kabiyesi of Oye-Ekiti and interacted with him and what we discussed was the need to have peace. We want justice. You are not the cause, we have been fully briefed that you have been treating the students like your own children we will therefore take the issue of his justice to the appropriate quarters. “We have heard about the closure of the university which was done to ensure that normalcy returns. We appeal that it is time to reopen the school with the assurance that nothing bad will happen. We have taken care of all of that with the students and we are all on the same page. “We also want to call for your support for the SUG, I have also spoken with the agencies in charge of power and they have promised to do the needful. The students have one or two requests which they wanted me to amplify, first is availability of street lights which will make movement easy for students at anytime on campus. “We shall help talk to appropriate quarters should you not have the money to do this. They also want the availability of Wi fi for stronger internet connections. We can also help discuss with the appropriate quarters to assist you on this. The SUG represents the entire students on the campus. “Let us allow the SUG in the interest of the school management, may I appeal to you to lift the ban on the proscription of FUOYE SUG. We want a favour which is to the advantage of the school, we urge you to visit the families of the deceased. “Joseph is yet to be buried as the mum said they have to take his body to Edo state for burial. Azeez in LASUTH is recuperating; we urge your management to see them to restore hope for the students. “The SUG has not done anything wrong and an attempt to victimize any of them will not be in the interest of any of us. I beg of you to reconsider your stand on the proscription of the SUG. The student union president was slapped by a policeman when he was summoned by the security men and he obeyed. This was the remote cause of the mayhem. I want to appeal to you as your son to kindly reconsider your decision,” he said. While responding, Prof. Soremekun said “Let me begin by thanking the NANS President, Mr. Bamidele Akpan for how he has addressed us. As I listened to him, what occurred to me is that there is a great deal of hope for this country, contrary to the narrative that our youths are unreliable, he appears  to me as an Individual with a lot of cerebral prowess. Having said that let me say that any narrative can also do with a counter. That is why we are scholars. I appreciate your narrative, and it can also do with a counter narrative in the spirit of scholarship. Your deposition on the peaceful nature of the protest can easily be faulted. But we will not go into this so as not to jeopardize the probe panel which has been put in place. We have also visited the families of the bereaved; I will also visit LASUTH when I get to Lagos tomorrow. We are already working on power situation in the school.  In the midst of thorns, there are roses; as terrible as this incident was, it has made people to be more conscious about what should be done as regards power not only in our varsities but in our surrounding communities. The issue of power is not only about functionality it is also about our economy. The demands of students are legitimate. “Prof. Bolaji Aluko has told me that there is a contract of power for the nation’s university system and they will factor FUOYE in it. Regarding street lights, we intend to go into solar but we need money for that. This country has many tertiary institutions, which are all being run by the federal government. We only access very small money from the federal government and what we have is not enough we are only supplementing that with fees from students. “Our fees are low but the huge number of students can help. We will put the street lights in place once students begin to pay. “As regards the WiFi, we have been doing our best. When I came here in 2016, the university had no portal. We were being colonized by the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), but now we have ours. “We are having a meeting on how to strengthen the internet system. It is also in our interest to reopen the university, I can assure you that as soon as practicable, we will reopen the university because it is in our own interest. Incidentally, there are structural dynamics in running this place, if the Senate has taken an action, I have to go back to them to explain to them and persuade them. There will be narratives and counter-narratives; somebody might come up with a superior argument and will have his way. I am also under authority here but will speak with the Chairman of the Council. “We are having the Council meeting on 3rd and 4th of October, 2019 where we will discuss the issue of reopening. What we did is to put the SUG of FUOYE on hold in order to reorganize, and reassess the situation, to see if it is possible to engage in a paradigm shift. Even though, we have proscribed the SUG, I have been picking the calls of the executives and they can testify to this. “Once I meet with the University Council, we will sort out this issue. There is a spirit of camaraderie between myself and the students and this will hasten the resolution of the issues. I must let you know that to call council meeting costs so much.” To further douse the tension, Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, hinted that he had met with the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, with a view to addressing the power problem rocking FUOYE. The students were protesting against the incessant power outage institution which made academics activities very difficult. The governor who regretted the deaths of students also called on the police authorities to commence full scale investigation into matter “I have directed the State Commissioner of Police to urgently commence an investigation into the circumstances that led to the unfortunate shooting incident with a view to identifying possible culprits within and outside the Force. Taken together with the ongoing investigation by the University management, we will consider the need for an independent panel of inquiry, if necessary once these fact finding investigations are concluded.” “The issue that led to the protest has been the subject of intense disagreement and negotiations with BEDC since I became Governor. Last week, my Commissioner for Infrastructure and Public Utilities was still in Benin to see BEDC management on the matter of inadequate and inconsistent supply of electricity in Ekiti State. Though Governors do not have any control over privatised power distribution companies, the four Governors from the states covered by the Benin DISCO have consistently expressed dissatisfaction with the services of BEDC and taken the matter up with the Vice President who chairs the Privatisation Council.” Until the multiple investigations are completed, I am necessarily constrained from talking about the details of what transpired. I however do not need to be constrained about the emotions a tragedy like this evokes. Any death is a tragedy. Any shooting arising from legitimate protests diminishes our fledgling democratic dispensation and calls to question our commitment to fundamental human rights. Having heard from all parties to the incident, it is pertinent that I now personally convey my deeply felt sorrow for the loss of two promising young lives and for those who suffered injuries. To be sure, our government prides itself on its strict adherence to the rule of law. The right of citizens to protest on any issue relating to governmental actions or inactions is a fundamental component of our good governance agenda. “We could not therefore under any circumstances have directed that deadly force be used on any of our citizens freely expressing their right to protest. Even before the conclusion of the investigations into this matter, we have taken a number of steps; a high level government delegation has visited the families of the deceased. This will not be a one-off intervention. We will stand firmly with, and support the families at this time. Those persons with varying degrees of injuries will also be given support whilst their hospital expenses will be defrayed by government. “In the meantime, I have suggested to our police authorities to explore the use of non-lethal rubber bullets in managing public protests and the Nigerian Governors Forum will take this up at the highest levels in government. “I note the initial public statement by the University authorities and its Students’ Union body. We welcome the conclusion that neither the wife of the Governor nor any Government official directed the shootings. Indeed it is obvious that the wife of the Governor and those on her entourage are victims of this unfortunate incident. “In addition to this, I have been talking to the Rural Electrification Agency about including FUOYE in the next round of their University Electrification Project.”