IBADAN – Teachers in Oyo State on Wednesday lauded Governor Seyi Makinde’s 100 days in office, describing him as “a performer with unequal giant strides.” The Chairman of the State wing of the Nigeria Union of Teachers and Secretary, Comrades Tojuade Adedoyin and Muhammed Abdullahi, in a press release, said Makinde was already repositioning the state for better service delivery. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network But in the same vein, the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State has lamented what it described as a regrettable downward slide in the fortunes of the state as a result of alleged poor handling of its affairs by the Peoples Democratic Party administration of Engr. Oluseyi Makinde over the last 100 days. Makinde was sworn-in on May 29, 2019 as a successor to Senator Abiola Ajimobi, of the APC, who held sway as the executive governor of the state for an unprecedented two terms of eight years. The new administration is currently basking in the euphoria of marking its first 100 days in office as this has become the practice. The NUT leaders said, “Unarguably, his Excellency sterling qualities as a leader is a pointer that attitude is a small thing that makes a big difference. “The prompt payment of salary and pension to both serving and retired teachers of Oyo State are considered topical issues that we less imagined over a period of time. “The total release of monthly salary by his Excellency in funding teachers’ pension board remains an act that cannot be easily forgotten in the annals of history of this administration in Oyo State,” they stated. While commending governor’s promise of allocating 10% yearly budget to education, the NUT also appreciated government’s promotion of graduate teachers to salary grade level 15 and more importantly, his promotion of free, compulsory and qualitative education in the state. They however appealed for the prompt payment of 2018 leave grant to primary school teachers; creation of separate pension board for teachers and appointment of primary school teachers as Headmaster General in schools and Permanent Secretaries for TESCOM zonal offices. But however, in a statement issued on Wednesday and made available to journalists in Ibadan by its Assistant Publicity Secretary, Prince Ayobami Adejumo, Oyo APC berated Governor Makinde “for bowing to pressure and allowing his subjects to embark on a comedy show in the name of celebrating fake achievements which cannot even stand the test of public scrutiny. “Modern ethics of governance or public administration do not give room for experiments as an average prospective leader is expected to be armed with ideal blueprint or roadmap with which he plans to add value or make a positive difference. In the case of Oyo State at the moment, the whole world is worried that we now have a man who still campaigns for election after he had been sworn-in as governor. “As a progressive entity, we are deeply concerned about the future of the Pacesetter State in view of the fact that the tempo of purposeful governor went away with the immediate former governor. We now have an administration which does not seem to know what governance entails. Obviously, handlers of the current PDP government are grossly incompetent and the earlier they realise this, the better for the future of our dear state. “If not a theatre of the absurd; how does a mere plan to purchase pleasure cars amount to a giant stride in enhancing security? How does the rebranding and unveiling of exercise books inherited from the successive administration change the face of education for the better in a state? How does a mere pronouncement change the status of Adeoyo State Hospital to meet up with the value of the University College Hospital, Ibadan? “On many occasions in the last three months, we have had Gov. Makinde speak on probing the administration of Sen. Ajimobi on the spurious allegations of graft in the morning and also come out in the evening of same day to applaud most of his policies while in office. Rather than engaging in bitter politicking and unnecessary grandstanding, we urge him to borrow a leaf from Ajimobi and come up with only programmes and policies that could move the state forward in no time. “Rather than roll out drums and make noise through media patronage to cover the track, Governor Makinde should apologise for his failure to deliver on his campaign promises. Basically, people care to know why the governor has not secured sole ownership of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso for Oyo State as promised. Why has the governor refused to pay the 30 thousand naira minimum wage to workers? Why has Governor Makinde not been able to wean the state from being dependent of monthly federal allocations and loans? After all, it is dawned on the people that all he (Makinde) was to take an advantage of the people and make fake promises just to be a governor. “However, now that Governor Makinde is preparing to commission most of the Model Schools built by the administration of Sen. Ajimobi, we are appealing to him to monitor and support all the contractors handling various development projects across the state and, at the same time, endeavour to give due credit to the APC government since government is a continuum. Since Ajimobi left office, no single pothole had been fixed on any road anywhere in the state and this is rather unfortunate,” Adejumo added.