Bureau Chief Benin – Prof. Epiphany Azinge SAN has suggested to the management of Igbinedion University, Okada, to make the institution the bedrock of ECOWAS studies and to be independent of the political science department of the University.
Prof. Azinge, who made the suggestion in a lecture he delivered at the nation’s premier private University to mark the 85th birthday of the founder, Chief Dr. Gabriel Igbinedion said since ECOWAS was gradually taking the centre stage in West Africa, there is urgent need to have a centre in Igbinedion University to host studies for all ECOWAS nations.
Azinge, in his lecture titled “Igbinedion University: The Future Of A Leading Private Universities” said the challenge ahead IUO going forward is to sustain the vision of the founding father.
According to him, in the next five years, the aim should be one of self-sustainability for the founder to drop out from funding the University single handedly.
To achieve this, he said, the linkage programme and advancement office should be overhauled and revamped to attract more funds from the external sources.
“Inextricably intertwined with this should be the vigorous establishment of plethora of exchange programmes with international institutions. It is not possible for IUO to mount a centre for Chinese language studies or indeed any other foreign language that can link the country to IUO and this can help in forging a linkage that will attract funds in this University,” he said.
Prof. Lawrence Ikechukwu Ezemonye, Vice Chancellor, Igbinedion University Okada, in his address noted that the University has recorded ground breaking achievements with the establishment of four centres of excellence.
“They include Centre for Presidential Studies, Centre for leadership and governance, centre for Climate change and Centre for Sustainable Development Goal, while the Buratai Centre for Contemporary Security Affairs has been discharging its function adequately,” the VC said.
While congratulating the Chancellor and founder of the University, Chief Dr. Gabriel Igbinedion on his 85th birthday, Prof. Ezemonye noted that the University after 20 years of existence has become the turning point of educational administration and pedagogy in higher education in Nigeria.
This, the VC said has allowed the founder to look back and say, with satisfaction and gratitude to God, that it has been a life of generosity to humanity, a life of fulfillment and blessings from God interspersed with radiance.