Lafarge Africa has strengthened its commitment to quality and sustainable building as it announced the sixth edition of its International LafargeHolcim Awards for Sustainable Construction. To this effect, the firm said that it had started accepting entries for the award from qualified professionals. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the company, the LafargeHolcim Awards recognises and rewards innovative projects and bold ideas from professionals and students that seek to address sustainability in construction. The competition emphasises the important roles of architecture, engineering, urban planning and related disciplines in achieving a more sustainable future. Mrs. Folashade Ambrose-Medebem, Public Affairs and Sustainable Development Director for Lafarge Africa, shedding more light on the initiative, stated that the award was open to eligible engineers, architects, builders, planners, construction firms, project owners, students and non-governmental organisations working in the building industry. On efforts to encourage qualified Nigerians to enter for the award, she said: “Our aspiration is for Nigeria to be well represented across the Middle East and Africa region. We are hopeful that more Nigerians would be encouraged by the success stories of others who have been recognised in past editions of the award, the likes of Nigerian-born Kunle Adeyemi. “In 2014, Adeyemi won an Acknowledgement Prize for Chicoco Radio Media Center; the amphibious building in Delta City of Port Harcourt in Nigeria. Such ambitious and creative entries are what we seek again to put Nigeria on the world map of sustainable construction. We sincerely hope that our professionals and students will seize this opportunity.” Lauding the initiative, Tonye Braide, the immediate past President of the Nigerian Institute of Architects, noted that the award was apt considering the growing population and urbanisation rate in Nigeria. He further added:  “The process of evaluation is both fair and transparent. With the credibility of the award sponsor, I believe that quality will not be compromised. Such transparency is what you get when you have independent experts as juries from across the world; Europe, North America, Latin America, Middle East Africa and Asia Pacific, are coming together to evaluate and select outstanding entries.” Ms. Titilope Oguntuga, the Sustainable Development and Corporate Brand Manager of the company, gave the criteria of the award as innovation and transferability, ethical standards and social inclusion, resource and environmental performance, economic viability and compatibility as well as contextual and aesthetic impact.