Eight presidential candidates stood behind their podiums aiming to impress Tunisian voters on Saturday evening in the young democracy’s first-ever televised election debate. Although Tunisia has held elections twice since throwing off autocratic rule in the 2011 revolution which triggered the “Arab Spring” uprisings, democracy is still taking root and such direct questioning of all the candidates is a novelty, Reuters reports. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Only a few patrons of the Essafsaf Cafe in Tunis were watching the large screen in the corner, however, hoping to whittle down their voting preferences ahead of the Sept. 15 election. “I have a list of favorites and I have a few who are not favorites. I hope to learn how they react to questions, how they face questions they do not know in advance,” said Mohamed Mazhoud, 31, a software developer. He had come to the cafe with his brother Ali, 25, and three friends, planning to listen to each of the candidates scheduled for the first night of debate, with most of the other 18 appearing on Sunday or Monday. Saturday’s batch included Abdelfattah Mourou, who is the first presidential candidate put forward by the moderate Islamist Ennahda party, former prime minister Mehdi Jomaa and former president Moncef Marzouki. Mourou was placed next to Abir Moussi, one of two women in the race and a supporter of the ousted autocrat Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali, whose government banned Ennahda and jailed many of its members. Another very prominent candidate, media magnate Nabil Karoui, is in detention on suspicion of tax fraud and money laundering, charges he denies and attributes to political chicanery. Debate organizers have said they will keep an empty podium place on the night he was scheduled to appear. The furor surrounding his detention is not the only challenge facing Tunisian democracy during this election – years of economic troubles have also undermined trust in politics and turnout for municipal voting last year barely reached 30%.