ABUJA – As reactions continue to trail the recent court judgment granting the convener of the #RevolutionNow protest, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, bail, Nigerian Youth Organisation (NYO), has risen in defence of the Department of State Services (DSS), saying the Service has right to detain the accused if it is convinced beyond every reasonable doubt that he will contravene the bail conditions.
The group, in a statement on Friday by its President, Hon. Abdullahi Abubakar Wali, said with the seriousness of this case, the Department of State Services has every legal right to appeal the ruling on this application of bail because the ruling is first instance.
Wali said DSS is not convinced beyond reasonable doubt that Sowore will not contravene the bail conditions, as a result, they have every legal right to detain him in their custody pending the ruling on the appeal against the ruling of the Federal High Court on his release.
It would be recalled that the Federal High Court, Abuja Division, has issued a warning that it would order the imprisonment of the Director-General of the State Security Service (SSS), Yusuf Bichi.
The court gave the warning on Thursday in response to the failure of the SSS to release the detained publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore.
The court’s warning was also based on an application by Mr Sowore’s lawyers led by senior advocate, Femi Falana.
However, Wali said the Service should not treat Sowore’s case with levity as motion under Section 27 of the Terrorism Prevention Act, under which Omoyele Sowore, the Presidential candidate of the Africa Action Congress was accused of plotting with foreign interests to overthrow the President Buhari’s government, was indeed a big threat to the nation.
“We call on Mr. Femi Falana, SAN to respect the right of the Department of State Services to appeal the ruling in the favour of his client (Mr. Omoyele Sowore) and also stop harassing the Director General of the DSS. As young people in Nigeria, we will continue to mobilise Nigerian Youths and Nigerians in general to continue to support President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, the winner of the March 2019 Presidential Election.”
He called on Sowore to apologise to Nigerians and the Federal Government and work with the President Buhari, as he focuses on the task of re-engineering the nation and fixing the economy, creating jobs for teeming unemployed populace, tackling corruption and insecurity headlong for a secure and prosperous nation.z