Lagos – Religious leaders in the country have been urged to assist the government in emphasising the importance of morals and family values as the people listen more to them.
Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Governor gave the charge at the weekend while speaking at the celebration of the Hijrah 1441 Islamic New year held at the Lagos Central Mosque, Lagos Island.
Hamzat berated the level of moral decadence and social vices in the society while calling on religious leaders in the state to preach morals and values of family life to their congregation in order to curb decadence and build a better society for all.
“We are losing our society and family because we now lack morals. Our religious leaders should at all times speak on religious standards, discourage indecent dressing, unruly behaviour, disobedience, among other social vices. Moral is important and there is the need to teach morals so that we can get everything right again,” he said.
While reiterating the need for parents to bring up their children in a godly way, Hamzat stressed that no matter the level of basic infrastructure provided by government, if the children lack basic religious knowledge and moral, all efforts will be in vain.
Hamzat, therefore, called on leaders to always urge their followers to shun negative attitude such as driving against traffic as the state government will soon commence the seizure of the vehicles of anyone caught violating the traffic laws as there will be no sacred cows.
Sheikh Sulaiman Oluwatoyin Abou-Nolla, Chief Imam of Lagos, while stressing the importance of the Hijrah celebration, called on the state government to emulate Osun State to declare a public holiday or work-free day for the commemoration of the day by Muslims in Lagos.
Also, Sheikh AbdulWahab Zubair, the guest lecturer in his lecture, titled: “Challenges facing Muslims in Nigeria: The Way Forward,” frowned at the way civilisation is discouraging youth from practising Islam particularly. He said Western education, has made many to shun Quranic education and, therefore, called on children to imbibe both Western and Quranic education.