Uyo – Wife of Akwa Ibom State governor, Martha Emmanuel, has vowed to work with appropriate authorities to subject pedophiles in the state to a maximum exposure and disgrace, to serve as deterrent to others. Martha Emmanuel said that anyone caught defiling a minor would henceforth be shown on all media platforms, with their names, villages and details communicated to the world. The governor’s wife handed down the caution over the weekend while briefing newsmen on activities lined up for the fourth anniversary celebration of her pet project, Family Empowerment and Youth Re-orientation Path initiative (FEYReP) at Government House, Uyo. Speaking on the achievement of FyREP at four, Martha Emmanuel said FEYReP has in the last four years empowered over 3,000 rural women through a cash conditional transfer scheme, to grow their businesses and also learn new skills to enable them support their families. She said: “The successes that we have recorded in the last your years are enormous and I must give glory to God for the grace to have empowered as many women within these years. Without mincing words, we have touched no fewer than 3,000 families in the state. “You know that when women have something doing, they will always give back to their respective families. So I’m happy that with the special grace of God, we have achieved this feat in just four years.” She said her pet project, through FEYReP’s Shelter of Hope programme, initiated out of the urgent need to provide the poor with accommodation, has been able to provide 30 houses for widows and others in the state. “When I think of where I live and where my children live and then you see a family that can’t afford a decent life, living in a very precarious situation, you can’t but shed tears. Through this initiative, we have built and delivered over 30 houses for many indigent families.” On the campaign against all forms of gender-based violence, Emmanuel said that efforts of her pet project, which have seen her office taking awareness talks to schools and other places to sensitise the girl-child on how to uphold her dignity, protect herself and how to speak up when abused, have yielded positive results. “Firstly, we have taken the fight against rape to another level. Many have been convicted. But henceforth, we will begin to publicly shame the perpetrators of the crime. I solicit your cooperation in this regard as we can no longer continue to shield the wolves in sheep clothing. “On the violence against women, we recently partnered the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to establish a 24-hour call response GBV centre where we cater for women who have been abused. The boy-child and the girl-child are not left out either as we have also organised programmes meant to mentor them on the right path,” she said. She said her pet project has provided sponsorship for patients who suffered various kinds of debilitating illnesses, included leprosy. Succor has also been extended to multiple birth parents, rehabilitation for victims of abuse, succor for persons living with disabilities, pregnant women through Martha Pregnacare programme and establishment of garri processing factories across the state to reduce the price of garri. Reeling out  activities to mark the fourth anniversary of FEYREP,  wife of the Akwa Ibom State Governor assured of more life-touching projects, to  be inaugurated on Tuesday September 17, in addition to the 400 persons lined up for empowerment.