LAGOS – The House of Oduduwa, led by His Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ife, in partnership with governments of Brazil, Cuba and over 20 other countries, has initiated Oduduwa Mobile Museum to restore and promote Yoruba civilisation across the globe. The House of Odùduwà promises lots of economic, political and socio-cultural benefits and seeks to draw global attention to the richness of Odùduwà culture and stimulate sustained healthy conversations and international collaborations. The historic project, which will be unveiled on September 7 at the Brazilian Embassy in Lagos, will last for 60 days during which about 1,000 priceless cultural materials of African origin will be moved from place to place within Lagos for all to see. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to a statement by Princess Ronke Ademiluyi of The House of Oduduwa, the unveiling ceremony will be followed by a four-day exhibition of antiquities, art recreations of divinities and treasures of ancestors of the Odùduwà people. “The cultural items slated for the exhibition will recall earliest and superb civilisation of the Odùduwà people spread across the world and the place of pre-eminence of the Odùduwà people in the history of mankind. The cultural items combine to reinforce the belief that, indeed, humanity originated from Ilé-Ife, the acclaimed origin of the Odùduwà people located in South Western part of Nigeria,” the statement added. The statement said that museum project will enhance the promotion of the essence, values and beauty of Odùduwà cultural heritage; and it is aimed at attracting and coordinating various interests and groups across the globe for sustainable global peace and development initiatives that place emphasis on youth encouragement and development. The statement added that the mobile museum will serve as hub for the collection of diverse African cultural productions and knowledge-retrieval, knowledge-renewal and knowledge-production centre for ancient African material and intellectual cultures. The Odùduwà Mobile Museum is committed to showcasing all these collections as part of the necessary reconstruction of the black man who increasingly is being scientifically proven to be the oldest species of humanity. The museum, which is first of its kind, is set to pursue the following objectives: to recognise the strategic importance of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation’s (UNESCO); acknowledgment of the great benefits in the collaboration between the Municipal Secretariat of Culture of the City of Rio de Janeiro and the Kingdom of Ife, Nigeria, for the establishment of a House of Heritage, the Odùduwà Heritage House, in Rio de Janeiro. Others include working for the reinforcement of “the historic ties of Brazil with Africa” as recognised by the UNESCO; to valorise the “memory and the cultural diversity” of Africa as a way of enlarging the scope of valorising the memory and the cultural diversity at the Valongo Wharf, as inscribed on the World Heritage List in July, 2017. It will also serve as the centre for the collection, protection, exhibition, and promotion of antiquities, treasures and traditional art forms of Africa; to embark on initiatives that can restore and reinforce the dignity of the African person such as the uprooted in the diaspora; and to work in all possible ways for healthy global cultural interaction which will afford African and Africans the rare privilege of showcasing their cultures and histories. The project promises to encourage more collaboration (local and international) between Ooni of Ife and nations/institutions/ organisations/individuals that may be interested in the preservation and promotion of African heritage and to promote rare positive virtues by which the Odùduwà hero/heroine is traditionally defined. In recognition of the value of good memories and personalities worthy of emulation, the museum project will equally be committed to honouring and celebrating persons who are of Odùduwà ancestry and who are known to have performed or attained great feats as a way of spurring other Odùduwà descendants to enviable heights. Interestingly, the unveiling ceremony will coincide with Brazil’s 197th Independence Anniversary and thus provide a befitting celebration of her independence of September 7, 1822 on the continent of origin of millions of Brazilians. On the affinity between Oduduwa people and Brazil, the statement said that Brazil is the only country in the world with over 80 million Odùduwà descendants as part of her population. It noted that as a country that has adopted Yorùbá as official language (lingua franca), and the first country to collaborate with the House of Odùduwà on the promotion of African heritage, the crucial place of Brazil in the project is worthy of note. “It is, therefore, appropriate that the museum project has been designed to have Ilé-Ife and Brazil as its split base,” it said. It cannot be any other time apart from now for the world to hear from and through Ilé-Ife, where it all started, the narrative of a continuum of the past, the present and the future.