YENAGOA – Keniebi Okoko, a businessman and governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State, has passed a no-confidence vote on the state chairman of the party, Moses Cleopas, ahead the primary election slated for Tuesday. He expressed dismay that Cleopas was already taking sides instead of being neutral in the political contest involving 21 aspirants of the party. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Okoko was reacting to a statement credited to the PDP chairman in which he accused the aspirant of sending fake bank alerts to some unnamed delegates. He described Cleopas’ allegation in a statement he issued in Yenagoa on Monday as a brazen attempt to dent his hard-earned reputation in the eyes of his numerous supporters within and outside Bayelsa State. Okoko, son of Kimse Okoko, former national president of Ijaw National Congress (INC) and Professor of Political Science, said he believed Cleopas did not act with the support of Governor Seriake Dickson “whose love for the PDP and the Bayelsa people has never been in doubt.” Debunking the allegation in its entirety, he said he had never in his long years of being in private business engaged in fraudulent activities. Okoko pointed out that if there was anyone trying to hoodwink delegates then it was Cleopas who had in previous political exercises deployed such ill-advised acts to sway delegates to his preferred candidate, but it was now backfiring. The PDP aspirant said, “In my 13 years as a private businessman, I have never been accused of any fraudulent activity, unlike him that had always depended on the spoils of government to survive. “I have built my reputation with my own sweat and any attempt by anybody, including Cleopas to smear that image will be resisted. “It is unfortunate that a man who ordinarily should be neutral in a contest as important as our party primaries has decided to take sides with some aspirants against other governorship hopeful in the party.” Okoko, who stated that he remained unshaken, added that the PDP chairman by his recent actions and utterances was bent on destroying the party, and called on the national leadership of the PDP to call him to order.