ABUJA – The Coalition of Civil Society Organisations at the weekend commended President Muhammadu Buhari administration on suspension of forex on food importation, saying that the initiative would boost local food production and processing. The group in a communiqué issued by Bassey Etuk Williams, it’s President, at the end of the 5th All Nigeria Civil Society Economic Conference in Abuja, lauded the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for its various diversification programmes introduced to alleviate poverty and create a new lease of life for the citizenry. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Williams urged the CBN to continue to sustain the recent reform policies it initiated which are aimed at ensuring economic diversification and attracting both local and foreign investors. According to the communiqué, “The recent forex suspension on food importation is a welcome development as it would enhance local production of food and food processing. “Highlights of the various reform policies aimed at addressing the current economic challenges such as the anchor borrowers programme that provides credit facilities at single digits’ interest rate to farmers, credit schemes, accessing foreign exchange and stability of exchange rates, exclusion of about 41 items from foreign exchange and recent suspension of forex on food import were deliberated upon to encourage investors. “The conference also applauded Mr. President for the re-appointment of the CBN Governor who we believe was as a result of his noticeable and responsive agenda to ensuring economic growth. “The conference therefore urged that the CBN continue to sustain the recent reform policies initiated at ensuring that Nigeria diversify its economy and also encourage foreign investors. “That the Federal Government through CBN should deepen and support the new economic reform policies aimed at economic growth and diversification. “And that, vital institutions of Government like Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture should continue to play significant supportive roles in the economic growth and economic advancement by boosting local content investment drive while also attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to ensure economic stability.” Williams further underscored the need for cooperation and synergy among various civil society groups, media and the government on various reform policies to ensure that all stakeholders are on the same page.