Dr. Temple Nnedum, President General of All States Women Association of Nigeria Worldwide, spoke to JOY ANIGBOGU on the need for the Supreme Court to correct the mistakes of the Appeal Court in the presidential election matter and other national issues. Excerpts: Can you talk about your activities as an NGO? All States Women Association of Nigeria Worldwide is a Non Governmental Organization with presence in 36 States of the country. Our basic objective is to forester love, peace and unity among Nigerian people and that is why we try to catch them young by going to schools across the nation to talk to young people, teach them to be patriotic citizens irrespective of ethnic and religious differences. Our activities have been yielding positive result from the feedback that we get from various locations through the social media. The young people also communicate to ask us questions bothering on unity of the nation. What can you say about the state of the nation? We have seen lots of challenges bothering on security and the inability of government to proffer solutions. The issue of Social Intervention Programme (SIP) of this government is what I really want to talk about. Osinbajo should give Nigerians an account of utilization of the fund now that they have done elections and they have been favoured. The money was tax payers money and should be accounted for. If the vice president fails to account, then the President owes Nigerians an explanation on how this fund was appropriated. If he cannot compel his deputy, the onus is on him to account to Nigerians. Our women who are contractors in this home grown school feeding told us one or two things about this social intervention programmme of which the home grown school feeding is part of. They cook and take to schools and the head mistresses and teachers would be demanding for this food for themselves. The programme according to them is from primary one to three; it does not cover the other classes in primary school. I don’t understand what this government is doing with our money. There is hunger in the land and people are suffering. What I think that government should do is to provide enabling environment for businesses to thrive, provide infrastructural facilities like electricity so that parents can be empowered and take care of their children. We cannot deceive ourselves and believe government is feeding our children in primary schools. What is your view about the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and other Africans in South Africa? Nigerians left the country because of hunger in the land, bad leadership. I heard some of them don’t want to come back. I don’t blame anyone who refuses to come back. You know that those of them who are breadwinners would find it very odd to come back. They would wonder what they would come back to do when they are the ones sending money home. I think that government has been treating South Africans with kids gloves. If they had taken a hard stand on South Africa this problem would not have degenerated to this point. Government had kept mute over the killing of Nigerians. This problem did not start now, it had been on for a very long time and government did not take a stern action against that country. We have South Africans here, they have investments in this country and we know where they live but we have not hurt them yet they have pleasure in killing us. When the head was down, they were pleading for forgiveness. They want us to forgive them. How do they think that would be easy? The President would be in South Africa on 3rd of October in respect of this issue of xenophobia. Don’t you think he is on top of the matter? This issue started over three years ago and the President had not gone to South Africa to compel his counterpart to do the right thing. Why is he going there now? He had kept quiet for too long. Is it when it has gotten to a climax that he has decided to act? The man evacuating Nigerians from South Africa is a private person. It is likely government had refused to take the issue of security of lives of Nigerians abroad and in the country. The Boko Haram menace, killings, kidnappings, and all forms of criminality where Nigerians have been losing their lives in thousands and government has not done enough to protect the citizens. Sometimes I wonder if that is not another way of reducing the country’s population. Can you say your view about the Judgment of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT)? I must tell you that I feel ashamed to be called a lawyer with the recent judgment by Appeal Court. The judgment was terrible and I don’t know how our children would see the judiciary. I must confess to you that my children asked me certain questions that I felt ashamed to respond to as a lawyer. Some of them would even tell you that they were wasting time going to school. There were so many merits in the matter and I wonder why they should throw it away. Were they saying that there was no perjury? The ruling of the Judges was repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience. Don’t you think that the problem is with the constitution as some people would be quick to say? I agree that the constitution in its entirety needs redraft and those portions that look okay we would keep, but the truth of the matter is that it is the judiciary that interprets the laws. It is true that sometimes the legislature can make laws that they don’t really understand and it is the duty of the judiciary to interpret it and that is why I told you earlier that the ruling is repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience because there are certain things that you would put up and you would understand the implication. I don’t know if we have gone back to the 20th century. This judgment I must confess to you has taken us decades backwards. Do you think that the judiciary must have compromised? Yes they have, it is very glaring that it has compromised. My take is that the Judges who were part of that judgment should be closely watched. This particular judgment would set a very bad precedent. Our NGO goes to schools to enlighten children on patriotism and good morals. We move from one college to the other across the country, enlightening our children. What do we tell them with this kind of judgment; we had to suspend the teaching because they would ask questions that we would not be able to answer on this judgment. I just pray that the Supreme Court would rectify the mistakes of the Appeal Court. Some people are worried that politicians have started talking about 2023 election when some of them just got their mandates few months ago. What is your view? They are using 2023 to distract the rulings of the tribunal and proceedings in the court. They know that it is at the end of the presidential election matter that we would know if there would be 2023 or not.