The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, recently knocked the management team of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) for abandoning the agency’s headquarters’ project in preference for paying N300 million yearly rent. Akpabio, who said this on Wednesday during his first meeting with the management team of the NDDC led by its Overseeing Director, Dr Akwagaga Enyia, added that it was a shame that the agency did not have any legacy project to show for its N2trillion indebtedness. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Akpabio, who was accompanied to the maiden meeting by the Minister of State in the Ministry, Festus Keyamo (SAN), also said the Federal Government would conduct a forensic audit and analysis of the money that came into the NDDC and how it was spent since 2000. He said: “Since the time of OMPADEC (Oil Mineral Producing Areas Development Commission), you started a building. Unfortunately, 20 years after, you have not been able to complete it. You should also have a little bit of sober reflection. It is a meeting to appraise where we are today, where we ought to be and where we are going. “I don’t want you to look at me as a politician because politicians speak with both sides of the mouth. You have before you a representative of Mr. President who is very poised and determined to work with you to redirect the NDDC. “The creation of the NDDC was strategic; it was a child of necessity. I believe that the NDDC has not performed well. I don’t want to say that you have failed the South-South zone. But, I’m saying that you have not performed well. There are a lot of complaints all over, even from the youths of the Niger Delta. “We talk about the NDDC as if it is a cash cow. But I think that in terms of debt and what you pile up, you owe over N2tn. The problem we are having is that you won’t even know the ones that are real and the ones that are political. “We will do forensic analysis and audits; we will try to go backwards, even from year 2000 until now to know what came in, what went out and why we have not seen much on the ground. We will stop you from doing politically-motivated roads, where you go to black soils, pour asphalt and then commission it. When the first rain comes, it washes away. “We will stop you from paying N200 million to N300 million a year as rent on the headquarters you are staying. You should be ashamed of paying the state government over N200 million to N300 million a year when you could have completed where you are and move in. How come we don’t have legacy projects to show in the Niger Delta? But, with a strong collaboration between the Ministry and Niger Delta, I see a brighter future.” What is going on at the NDDC is similar to what obtains presently at the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). It is also another cesspool of corruption and nepotism. The NDLEA is 30 years old, but does not have a permanent office complex or permanent residential accommodation (barracks) for its staff. The defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) buildings in most states presently occupied by the agency were secured by late General Musa Bamaiyi at that time. Besides, the NDLEA cannot afford to renew the rents of rented apartments and offices across the states. Most of the state offices are being threatened with ejection and court actions by the landlords. The present building the agency calls its national headquarters in Abuja was leased to it by the Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF) after it moved to its permanent structure. The office is not big enough to accommodate the entire staff. NDLEA officials are of the opinion that the agency is old enough to be headed by a serving or retired staff, rather than an outsider. The sad story of the NDLEA all these years has been that of tyranny, enslavement, captivity and sexual harassment by some sit tight Directors and Commanders. In the agency, the three months pre-retirement leave is an aberration, and that is why the present Director of Administration and Finance, Yohanna Sila Mshelia, who is due to retire on October 11, 2019, is still in office. Mshelia, in his trait, still signed an internal memo on September 2, 2019, where he said that the Chairman/Chief Executive, Col. Mohammed Mustapha Abdallah (rtd), has approved the extension of reporting dates from September 2, 2019 to September 30, 2019, for those who are yet to report, in order to facilitate the smooth handing and taking over exercises. The memo with reference number NDLEA/FIN/88/Vol.VII/228 is generating ripples in the agency. Aggrieved officers say that the NDLEA is in the habit of posting officers close to the end of the month so that they can use their salaries for the movement. The NDLEA does not pay transfer allowance, and an officer can be transferred about three or four times in two years. “Officers have never been paid transfer allowance, neither are we accommodated. We use our salaries and loans from our cooperative unit to settle such expenses. Officers are forced to wear uniforms which are bought with their salaries because they are not provided by the agency or the Federal Government.  We use our personal resources and cars for surveillance, intelligence gathering and other official duties.  If the Federal Government does not act fast and come to our aid, the issue of drug menace in the country will overwhelm us and it will not be easy to tackle,” said an aggrieved officer.