Honourable Victor Akande, member representing Ojo Constituency 1 in Lagos State House of Assembly, in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, said the Lagos State House of Assembly is not planning to probe former governor Akinwunmi Ambode. He also spoke on other issues. Excerpts: Why did Lagos State House of Assembly decide to probe former Governor Ambode on the 820 buses he was alleged to have ordered the purchase? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I don’t have the authority of the house to speak on this issue but to put the record straight nobody is probing the former Governor of Lagos State. There is a lot of misconception because when you listen to what the Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa said at the floor of the House, he said that instead of constituting a probe panel, that we should forge a way forward on how to get the buses out of the port, for the benefit of Lagosians. We set up a committee to look into the issue of getting the buses which are accumulating demurrage from the port, which is large and would create more economical problems on the State. He did not say that we should set up committee to probe anybody. I watched the television; read news on mainstream newspapers and social media that we wanted to probe him. It is not true, but there is nothing wrong if the former Governor is called to answer some questions in the course of trying to get out the buses. In his wisdom, the Honourable Speaker told us to forget about the idea of probing but look a way to get out the buses. The committee was set to get out the over 500 buses stocked in the Port. They are not beneficiary to Lagosians because the main purpose of acquiring the buses was to ameliorate the transport challenge of Lagos people. Nobody is using the buses instead demurrage is accruing to the buses. A motion was brought to the floor of the House by one of us and in his wisdom, the Speaker told us to forget about probe because if we start considering probe, we would waste time and also incur more cost by way of demurrage. We deliberated on the issue but the media should not concentrate on the deliberations but on our resolutions. If you start considering our deliberations and not the resolution, there would be tendency to paint the House in a very bad light. I am not the mouthpiece of the House but I am looking at what the speaker said and the resolution of the House which has been misconstrued in some quarters. Can you respond to the question by Lagosians as to how soon Governor Sanwo-Olu would complete the uncompleted projects by former Govern Akinwunmi Ambode, especially the road projects? The answer should be directed to the Governor but I must tell you what I know. You have just said that former Governor Ambode who was there in four years did not complete the projects and you are in haste to have Sanwo-Olu who just came in May 29 to complete the projects. He has just done three months and I must tell you that in that three months he has not been sleeping. When you come into a place you need to study the place you need to take time to study the problems that you met on ground to find solutions to them. When you don’t study and you want to kick start I must tell you that you would miscue. If you take the initial wrong step, I can assure you that it would affect you negatively throughout your tenure. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, I must tell you is a perfect gentleman. He is studying all the facets of government, all the ministries and departments’ one after the other critically. I would say that we should give him some time. When Ambode came, for the first six months he did not do anything, he was trying to proffer solutions on how best to govern the State. Sanwo-Olu is a very intelligent man and I must tell you that he would get down working when he is done with the assessments and he knows what he should do. We must not be in hurry. The Governor is equal to the task and he knows what he should do to give the best to Lagosians. With the kind of dust generating in Kogi concerning the primary election, people are wondering if what happened in Zamfara would not repeat itself there. What is your view? I want to leave this issue to the leaders of the party. There are three factions to it; we have the State faction of APC leaders and the national body. We also have the regional heads. If the State takes a decision, the region would ratify it before it gets to national. I may not be in the best position to contribute on this issue because I don’t have all the facts, since I am not there. Considering the lean revenue of the country, don’t you think it is a wrong decision for President Muhammadu Buhari to have bloated the ministerial positions from 36 to 43 which he reduced in 2015 when he took over government? It is like what we have in Lagos where we have 20 Local Government Areas (LGAs) and 37 Local Council Development Area (LCDAs). The constitution recognizes only 20 LGA but why do we have the extra 37? Since we have 20 LGAs, will 20 commissioners do the job? The answer is definitely, in the negative. That is why we have more than 20 commissioners. It is the same thing at the national level. Do we need development in all facets of the country, including remote and indigenous areas in the country? If the answer is yes, you would discover that the commissioners would not be able to oversee most of these areas. If we need development in all facets of the country, since it is clear that the 36 ministers cannot do the job, it became imperative for more ministers especially junior ministers to assist in doing this job. If you have one minister can it cover everything? So they need assistants to help out, so that where the senior ministers would not go, the junior minister would go. We should have about 80 ministers for effective coverage. If we are supposed to have two nominees from each State and we have 36 States, including Abuja. If we have 43 ministers taking care of about 220 million people. The President discovered that 36 ministers would not handle the job that is why he increased it to 43. Take for instance the case of Babatunde Fashola who was given three portfolios and at the end of the day people complained that he did not perform so well. On the average you would have one minister to an average of five million people. Do you think that one minister can attend to five million people? It has to do with the development of the country and in that line he had to shop for people that would help him to achieve result. The President decided to increase the number so that development would get to all facets of the country. We need development and we want it to be total. Honourable Victor Akande, member representing Ojo Constituency 1 in Lagos State House of Assembly, in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, said the Lagos State House of Assembly is not planning to probe former governor Akinwunmi Ambode. He also spoke on other issues. Excerpts: Akande Do you think that one minister can attend to five million people? It has to do with the development of the country and in that line he had to shop for people that would help him to achieve result