LAGOS – The Chartered Institute of Nigeria (CIBN) yesterday unveiled its plan to use the 2019 edition of its annual banking and finance Conference to ascertain what the future holds for Nigerian banking industry. The disclosure was made by Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of First Bank of Nigeria Limited, and equally the Chairman of the Consultative Committee of the CIBN’s 12th Annual Banking & Finance Conference, in his address at a press conference organised by the institute ahead of the event scheduled for September 24 – 25, 2019 at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While throwing insight on the essence of the Conference, with the theme titled: ‘The Future of the Nigerian Banking Industry – 360’, said: “it is an annual forum of key and respected operators, regulators, policy makers, members of the academia, millennials and other stakeholders in the Banking and Finance Industry to brainstorm on strategic issues that are critical to building a sound and sustainable financial system and economy”. “The resolutions at the Conference are usually made available to all the relevant stakeholders and policy makers to enable them re-appraise and align their operations and strategies in line with global best practice”, he added. According to him, this year’s edition is expected to attract about 1,000 professionals from within and outside Nigeria. Also notable dignitaries billed to grace the event are: His Excellency, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, GCON, SAN; Senator Ahmed Lawan, Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria; Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, Honourable Minister of Finance, Federal Republic of Nigeria; Mr. Mohammed Musa, Honorable Minister, Federal Capital Territory; Mr. Godwin Emefiele, CON, FCIB, Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria; His Excellency, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Executive Governor of Lagos State and many others. The Welcome Address will be delivered by Dr. Uche M. Olowu, FCIB, President and Chairman of Council, CIBN.