Over 200 unemployed youths in Ogun State have received N74.4m under the Fadama III agricultural programme of the Federal Government. The State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun issued the cheques to the youths trained under the scheme in Abeokuta, while speaking on the government intervention programmes aimed at curbing unemployment and other social malaise. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He added that the beneficiaries would be incorporated into the Anchor Borrowers Scheme where each of them would be provided free land with certificates of occupancy issued in their names. “You will also be entitled to clearing of the hectares of land. We will provide you seedlings and fertiliser as well as extension service”, he said. “Already, we have secured people who would buy the farm produce and it is a winwin situation as the loans on offer carry single digit interest”, Abiodun added. He urged the beneficiaries to utilise the funds effectively in order to achieve the programme’s objectives. He said that the youths were both males and females selected from the 20 local government areas of the state. The Coordinator further stated that the beneficiaries had received training in rice processing, poultry, fishery and other agricultural enterprises, adding that the invention was in line with the Federal Government’s effort to provide employment for the teeming youths. “Apart from these gestures, the government is also going to add at least 10,000 youths on our agricultural entrepreneurship programme,” Abiodun said. He observed that agriculture was becoming an antidote to the twin problem of poverty and insecurity in the country, adding that a gainfully employed citizenry would contribute in no small measure to the socioeconomic development of the state and the country. Abiodun plans to put 40,000 youths on the Anchor Borrowers scheme with support from the World Bank and the Central Bank of Nigeria. “I have mandated my consultant on agriculture to mainstream these set of FADAMA graduates into our anchor borrowers programme and by the grace of God, you will be the first beneficiaries of our anchor borrowers’ programme. “The ‘Fadama Guys’ is particularly unique because it is targeted at two main vulnerable groups of our population, the youths and the women and we are also elated that our Public Private Partnership approach towards the successful implementation of building our future together agenda is already yielding positive results,” he said. The Governor added that the Fadama Graduate Unemployed youths Scheme (Fadama Guys) at the Micro Economic level would provide employment opportunities in agriculture for youths and women. He added that the macro- economic level would help the country boost its food and self-sufficiency agenda. In his welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs. Abosede Ogunleye said that the objective of the National Fadama Development Project Additional Funding was to increase the income of users of rural lands and water resources in a sustainable manner throughout the country. She said that this would lead to reduced poverty, while food security was enhanced, urging the beneficiary to judiciously make use of the grants they received.