LAGOS – Ex-international, Daniel Amokachi has picked holes in the proposed international friendly match between the Super Eagles of Nigeria and the Samba Boys of Brazil. In a radio sports programme monitored in Lagos on Wednesday, the former Super Eagles striker warned that the match could cause distraction for the Super Eagles from their opening match of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers. With the Super Eagles set to play Benin Republic at the start of November, Amokachi is of a view that it would have been better for the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to arrange build-up matches with African teams, rather than take up the October 13 fixture against Brazil in Singapore. “Ordinarily, I will say a friendly against Brazil is a good idea, but the timing is not right. We have AFCON qualifiers coming up, so we should play countries from Africa, not South America or Europe. “We have to get our players used to the tough conditions of playing in Africa and the physical nature of the game here, but we cannot get that from playing Brazil in Singapore. “It was the same mistake we made at the Nations Cup in Egypt, because our players were not used to the African style of play, which is different from what they experience with their clubs in Europe. “We should start playing African countries in friendly matches, rather than go for prestige games that will not benefit our players for their coming qualifiers for the AFCON”, he said. It will be recalled that Nigeria will play Benin Republic, Sierra Leone and Lesotho in the qualifiers for the 2021 AFCON. After hosting the Squirrels of Benin Republic on November 14, they will fly to Maseru for the qualifier with the Crocodiles of Lesotho on November 19 before playing Sierra Leone. Meanwhile, the NFF has expressed appreciation to all those that made it possible for the friendly match to be sealed between the two soccer playing nations. NFF Secretary General, Dr. Sanusi Mohammed, said it was a huge success for Nigeria to get a huge opportunity of successfully sealing a potentially explosive and historic match with the Samba Boys. “We are happy to have sealed this encounter with Brazil, the five-time champions of the world. It is not every day that you get to Brazil, and I think it is very good for our young team. The NFF must also commend Eurodata Sport, our FIFA –licensed Match Agent, for pulling this off. “Having said that, the focus now is on getting an African team for the Super Eagles as a second match for the FIFA window in October, ahead of their 2021 AFCON qualifying matches in November”, said Mohammed.