A Federal High Court in Lagos on Thursday remanded two men who allegedly broke into a sealed warehouse and stole substandard electric cables confiscated by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON).
The welders are: Chukwuma Nwodo, 31, of No. 8 Tobi Close, Mosafejo, Ojo-Alaba, Lagos and Abor Ikechukwu, 21, of 1, Collins Street, Alaba International Market, Lagos.
Vacation judge, Justice Nicholas Oweibo, made the order following their arraignment by the Federal Government on a two-count charge of conspiracy, unlawful destruction of SON seal and stealing.
Chief State Counsel Mr Babatunde Alajogun, who represented the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), told the judge that the defendants committed the offences on or about August 21, 2019 at a warehouse behind Bengass Motor Park, Ojo-Alaba.
“They conspired to destroy the seal of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria which was used to seal up the warehouse which contained substandard cables using welding equipment,” he said.
The court heard that both men carried out the destruction using welding equipment and gained entrance into the warehouse “to cart away the substandard electric cables.”
The offences, the prosecutor added, contravened Sections 3(a) and 3(6) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, 2004 and punishable under Section 3(a) of the same Act.
Nwodo and Ikechukwu pleaded not guilty.
Alajogun prayed the court to remand both defendants pending trial.
He said: “We humbly make an application that the defendants be remanded in prison custody and for the court to fix a date for trial.
“We have two witnesses and we can finish this case in a few weeks.”
Defence counsel S. I. Onyema did not oppose him.
Onyema, who informed the judge that he had only just seen the case file, added: “We shall be asking for a date so that we can bring the necessary applications.”
In a bench ruling, Justice Oweibo upheld Alajogun’s prayer.
He added: “We’ll take a date for hearing, any time you (Onyema) bring your application, we’ll hear it. The case is adjourned till October 24 for trial. The defendants are hereby remanded in prison custody.”