Minna – Armed robbers, in the early hours of Monday, invaded one of the privately developed off campus hostels of the state-owned Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU), Lapai, Niger State.
The attack on the hostel, a 25-room hall accommodating both male and female students of the institution, according to an eyewitness, occurred between 12 midnight and 2a.m (Monday morning).
The hoodlums were said to have had a field day ransacking through all the rooms. Some of the robbers were said to have manned the entrance gate of the compound while other members of the gang moved from one room after another, ransacking belongings of the students and dispossessing them of their valuables.
The criminals, armed with sophisticated weapons, Daily Independent gathered, had locked up the students in one of the rooms before carrying out the operations which was said to have lasted for about two hours uninterrupted.
All the students were called out one after another to lead the criminals into their rooms where they were also ordered at gun point to explain the contents of their bags/luggage after being forced to identify their belongings.
All the cell phones, laptops, cash and other valuable items belonging to the students were then taken away by the robbers who also demanded jewelleries and expensive clothing materials from the female students.
Some of the female students who could not provide any of the items demanded by the intruders, or had delayed in responding to orders, were reportedly slapped or given the beating of their lives by the criminals.
One of the victims, who said she suffered shock experiencing such an attack for the first time in her life, said: “They operated between 12 midnight and 2a.m before they left the same way they came. It was after the robbers had finished operating that the police came.”
Speaking on the incident, one of the Information Managers of the University, Baba Akote, said the institution was yet to be officially informed of the attack on the students since it happened off-campus.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Niger State Command, DSP Muhammad Abubakar Dan-Inna, confirmed the attack on the students.
DSP Muhammad, who told journalists on phone that the incident happened outside the university campus, said: “We are already investigating the matter; the robbers would be apprehended and brought to justice.”