The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), Federal Polytechnic Ede, in Osun State, stormed the school premises on Friday protesting the failure of the institution’s management to investigate alleged mistreatment of staff by the President of the Students’ Union of the institution, Rufai Lukman. ASUP, at its emergency congress on the 2nd September, took a resolution that since there have not been any punishment or report from the disciplinary committee on the alleged behaviour of Mr Lukman, towards one of its members Architect Adeoye, the Union has resolved to withdraw her services pending when appropriate measures are meted out against him. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to reports, there are indications that the management, after a board meeting on Friday, proscribed the ASUP chapter in the School and also postponed its Second Semester examinations which were slated yo being on Monday 9th to 11th of September. In a swift reaction, the ASUP chapter says it will embark on strike over the proscription of its union activities by the school management. The ASUP Chairman, Mr Masopa Nurudeen, who said this at a press conference after the Union’s congress on Saturday in Ede, said the Union would withdraw its services by midnight of September 10. Nurudeen said the Union is angry over the failure of the institution’s management to investigate alleged mistreat of staff by the President of the Students’ Union of the institution. “The President of the Students’ Union deflated the tyres of one of our staff because he said the car disrupted his way. “As a Union, we wrote a letter to the management to investigate the matter and that the matter should be transferred to the statutory committee of the institution. “But we did not get a response from the management and after our congress, we decided that we are withdrawing our services pending the time appropriate action will be taken on the matter. “But surprisingly, because of our resolution, the school management announced the proscription of our activities, but that cannot stand,” he said. “We are passing a vote of no confidence in the Rector for his lack of administrative acumen. His administration has been characterised by high handedness, favouritism and nepotism,” the ASUP Chairman said. Reacting to the allegation, the rector of the institution, Dr John Adekolawole, said the union was not proscribed but rather its recognition by the school management was only withdrawn. Adekolawole said the matter the union was fighting for was a trivial matter which did not warrant union action. The rector said the management decided to withdraw the union recognition because of its plan to disrupt the school examination that was to commence on Sept. 9.“No responsible leadership will allow any group of persons to do anything that is inimical to the peace of the institution. “We have not proscribed the union but rather we only withdrew their recognition because their activities are becoming inimical to the peace of the institution”, the rector said. Adekolawole said the matter of the student leader raised by the union had been referred to Student’s Disciplinary Committee for appropriate action. He said management was awaiting the report of the committee for appropriate action. The rector also denied the allegation of maladministration and financial impropriety, saying he had been running the institution with utmost transparency. Also reacting to the allegation, SU President, Rufai Opeyemi Lukman, told INDEPENDENT that the ASUP Chairman, have been threatening the School management, most especially the rector, the Union said if they don’t see the outcome of the panel they won’t start examination on Monday despite the fact that I surrendered myself.