Arlat Dashe Dasogot ,the Executive Chairman of Plateau State  Internal Revenue Service, in this interview with ONOJA AUDU, narrated  how his Board intends to generate over N18 billion their target for the year 2019.Excerpts: What has Plateau Internal Revenue Service done to cue into Governor Simon Lalong new Rescue Vision in the area of revenue generation to meet its set target of providing infrastructural development for the people of Plateau state? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Plateau state internal Revenue service (PIRS) under the last first four years of Governor Simon Lalong administration on the Plateau was able to hit the ground running with the re-organisation of Revenue Service and at the same got the approval of Governor Lalong to employ over 200 ad-hoc staffs to join the substantive staffs that we were having on ground. With them we began to work round the clock towards meeting the target that we were given to generate per year by the Governor. The impact of what we were doing came into lime light in 2016 because 2015 was a political year of election. In2016 we recorded a remarkable break through with revenue generation from N6.9 billion IGR to  N9.1 billion in 2016 and move to generate N10.7  and 2018 N12.7billion and we are now in 2019. To us, we are not yet there because there are so many places to be covered because when we went for elections, we discovered that there are so many schools, hospitals and businesses that are thriving in the local government councils, districts and villages and our coverage was before now within Jos, the Plateau state capital. So, we came up to take a decision that we should ensure that these communities should be within the Board tax net of the formal sector as our emphasis have been on informal sector and even the informal sector organisations that have staffs between 15 to 20 staffs don’t  know that they supposed to pay tax to the state government. I created about three districts within the three senatorial zones in the state, and put our staffs there. Outside the normal zonal offices we were having, we got accommodations for the staffs they moved in there to collect revenue form the state; and we are already seeing the impact on this action we had taken going by the data and information they have gathered. Let me tell you that from January to June this year, we have seen steady growth in IGR as we have generated N9.2 billion half year compared to other years we had between 2015 to 2018. The half year of 2016 was N6 billion, 2017 half year was N5.2 billion and in 2018 half year recorded an increase over what we got in previous years and before the year runs out, we will by the grace of God, we will surpass our budget of N18 billion that is our target. With the increase in minimum wage to the state workforce, what are doing to get all sectors in the state to pay their taxes to enable the state Governor get enough money to pay workers the minimum wage which he has promised? With the new minimum wage issue, we tried to read the mind of the Governor and resolved to sit up at the Internal revenue service that is the focal income generation in the MDAs for the state. We are carrying along the MDAs and in the figures I have given, there are some percentage that comes from ministries and agencies in the state even though they were expected to generate more revenues than what we are getting from them at the moment when compared to what happens in some states such as Lagos and few others, we are not yet there. With the new Tax law that came up in 2017, we are trying to work things out with MDAs and local government councils in the state. There are lots of potentials in the ministries of Land and Survey, Agriculture, Tourism are areas we need to harness to be able to generate more money for the state. The sustainable economic rebate of the Governor as the number three policy thrust is what concerns us that we must achieve it together with all Plateau people because already  within Peace, Security and Good governance  , we have seen  everything  and  once we have peace, economic rebate will come easily for us  as Physical infrastructure  as number two Policy thrust. We have  seen street light everywhere on Jos roads , making it easier for traders who trades in the night to carry out their businesses and residents of Jos to move freely within the Plateau state capital there by creating confidence in the citizens of the state that their government has lived up to its promises. We are trying to sustain the economy of the state through sectors that we have not been there and as we do that Plateau would be a good place to live. What are we expecting to be your service revenue generation by the end of this year? We are hoping to generate more money at the end of this year from several sources available to us by the end of the year through MDAs and machineries put in place. We don’t need to increase the existing taxes, but with our collaboration with MDAs and local government councils in the state, Like in Wase local government council area in the state, we have lots of mining sites that we have not visited before, but our Men are already there in Wase combing mining sites to ensure the mining companies pay their taxes. Transport sector is another area to be visited as there are many people operating commercial motorcycle business in local government areas that do not have licenses to do so. In the Agriculture Sector, we have farmers producing farm produce without paying tax or anything to the government, but this time together with local government councils. We will get what belong to us. And likewise the Education sector, there are many private schools that the owners of the schools are not paying anything to government; this time around we have a long list of them and they are going to be made to pay their taxes to government. Our internal revenue generation base is going to increase  from this sector of the economy,  and I want to tell you that our tax from this formal sector is not going to be much, but we want to tell them that there is government in place that they have an obligation to make it succeed in meeting the needs of the people of the state and contributing their quota through paying of their taxes is very important  as enough money is needed by the state government to bring development to the door steps of the people down to the grass roots of the state . If every taxable adult in the state of about four million knows they have obligation to pay their taxes to the state government on the Plateau, we will have more than enough to enable government pay the new minimum wage to workers and carry out other developmental projects for the good of the people on the Plateau and by God’s grace we will get there soon on the Plateau. What is you Service doing to encourage taxable adults in the state to pay their taxes as at when due? We must encourage taxable adults in the state to enable the government carry out projects that have bearing on the lives of the people of Plateau because if people don’t pay their taxes and at the same time expect government to execute projects for them, where do they expect the money for the executing of these projects. If they pay their taxes; they have a voice to ask government that they need a type of project to be executed for them, just like I told Poultry farmers in the state sometimes ago when they were talking about live bird farm, I told them to show me their contribution to the revenue base of the state so that it would be easier for me to tell the state government to cite a market for them where they can easily market their produce. Have you been able to overcome the challenges of vehicle registration at your Board? We no longer have challenges in vehicle registration at the state revenue service; it does not take any longer time like before now. When we started with ICT, banks were having their challenge and we were having our own challenges with the networks, but even if one buys a new telephone GSM, it is not the one you are used to, navigating it will be a problem, that was the teething problem we had, but now our staffs have marshaled out everything. For registration of vehicles when we started we were using biometrics and people have to come to the board, but we have removed biometrics already because we have other agencies that are helping us to do the registration, so if you are coming to meet us for registration we will ask you just one or two questions whether you have your voters card or national identification card or driver’s license and BVN, so once you have it registering anybody doesn’t take time because we have many channels of payment now for registration of vehicle even on your website and as well do your registration on our revenue service website, but people are not yet used to it. So, the process of vehicle registration, obtaining of driver’s license and other services required from us are very simple now. What is the true picture of the harmonisation of tax laws in your state? The tax law of 2017 which is the harmonisation tax law, we are on it even though there are some challenges that came with it . Like the one that is very glaring, that is the land use charge, the local governments’ collects tenement rent while the state government collects ground rent. Now the law put the two together and as such they’re suppose to be deep understanding between the two arms of government on how to go about it. The law is being implemented on who should collect the revenues and who to do the assessment even though there are some grey areas we are trying to resolve. For now we are going ahead with the collection of our ground rent and the local governments are going ahead with their collection of tenement rent. We are trying to harmonise the MDAS like the registration of the business premises that being  done by the ministry of commerce and industries while collection of school fees from all tertiary institutions is there in the law, ministry of Agriculture, consumption tax are all covered by the law  even though we are getting some resistance, the law is there we are trying to educate all tax payers out there, the hotels, shopping malls, the eateries to understand  why they should be paying their taxes. Naturally, people don’t like to pay tax until they get to understand that it is their responsibility to pay tax to the government. How do you handle the issue of double taxation in the state? We are trying to reduce this issue of multiple taxes in the state. If the local government councils are coming to your shop to collect tenement rent and the ministry of land of survey is coming to the same shop to ask for ground rent, it is better for us to come to the shops at once and that enables the shop owner to plan on when to pay these taxes. That is the essence of the law. It is better to have all the bills in one invoice. What we are waiting for is to get that authority for us to collect on behalf of both local and state government just like is done in some states such as Kaduna, Kwara and many other states in the country. How do you tackle the issue of tax evasion by companies on the Plateau? We are monitoring the companies to ensure they pay their taxes correctly by going through their books periodically. Companies always want to plan on how to invade tax we audit the accounts and sometimes some of them are made to pay their tax in arrears when caught, many are paying their liabilities with interest and penalties and added to that at times, to those who wants to argue, we end up having reconciliation meeting and most of them end up paying and by so doing, it leads to increase in our Internally Generated Revenue (IGR).