Lagos – Tammy Abraham, the prolific Chelsea forward, has hinted on a possible switch to Nigeria, thus, ready to play for the three-time African champions. He said this on the backdrop of mountain speculations over his international future after he grabbed the headline following his hat-trick against Wolves on Saturday. The striker was capped twice by England in 2017 but remains eligible for Nigeria, the country of his father The 21-year-old scored a hat-trick to take Frank Lampard’s side to a 5-2 victory against Wolves on Saturday, and is the English Premier League’s joint top scorer with Sergio Aguero. But Abraham missed out on Gareth Southgate’s latest England squad, and despite winning two caps in 2017 for England, he has refused to rule out a switch to Nigeria. “I have heard the talks (about playing for Nigeria) and I’ve not really been focused on that yet,” he said on his international future after the Wolves win. “I think when the time comes, we never know. You can never say never; whatever comes first really. It is about focusing on Chelsea and hopefully scoring goals and getting victories.” In 2017, Amaju Pinnick, president of the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF), and a childhood friend of Abraham’s father, claimed that the then 19-year-old Abraham was ready to play for Nigeria. While those claims were swiftly rebuffed by the Chelsea striker and he made his England debut soon after, Abraham’s latest comments appear to have reopened the door. Victor Moses, Alex Iwobi (both Nigeria) and Wilfried Zaha (Ivory Coast) have all eschewed England eligibility to play for the countries of their birth after playing youth team or, in the case of Zaha, international football for England. Abraham was born in central London. Abraham could make his Champions League debut on Tuesday night, with Valencia Chelsea’s first opponents at Stamford Bridge. “I have grown up watching big stars playing in the Champions League, and to play in it myself would obviously be a dream,” he said of a potential debut.”