ABUJA – The Chairman, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yusuf Buba Yakub (APC, Adamawa) has called African countries to unite against xenophobia by supporting each other in building the continent to become the largest economy in the world. Buba made the call while fielding questions from journalists on Wednesday in Abuja as past of reaction to the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and other foreign nationals living in South Africa. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network This is as Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers), has slammed the Buhari led administration for not doing anything to protect Nigerians lives both home and abroad. Bubba said there was need to take a cue from China and European countries which had harnessed continental strength to build a formidable economy for their citizens. In his words: “I want to call on Africans, to know that all of us are about 1.34 billion, it is not up to the population of China which is about 1.4 billion”. “Within 40 years, China is able to conquer and have become one of the largest economies of the world. “So if we do not come together as one in Africa, there is no way one single African country can really break the jinx and become great. “We must all come together, as Africans, we must come together, we need ourselves and live together and face our problems and solve them ourselves. “We should copy from the European Union who have all come together to form a formidable economic bloc so that they can grow and conquer their economic problems”, Bubba said. The lawmaker who urged Nigerians to trust in the efforts and ability of the federal government in getting amicable resolution to the crisis also noted that the xenophobic attacks in South Africa had existed in the country long before 2008 when it first affected Nigerians living there. According to him, it is expected of the host country to give maximum security to foreigners living in the country just like the Nigerian government protects the lives and properties of foreigners. He disclosed that there have been talks between the Federal Government and its South African counterpart over the attacks on Nigerians living in South Africa. He said “there had been promises and commitments from the South African government to protect Nigerians and to stop the xenophobic attacks but it is getting worse”. “Now we have reached a crossroads, it has reached its peak and I want to assure Nigerians that you will see definite actions as expected by Nigerians. “That is why President Muhammadu Buhari has sent a powerful delegation to South Africa and the Speaker of the House of Representatives has cut short his holidays and he is back in the office. “He has also mandated the committee on foreign affairs to commence investigation and recommend very drastic measure to be taken in order to bring this to an end,’’ he said. The lawmaker said that Nigerians will continue to live and do their business anywhere in the world as the whole world is now a global village and it belongs to all of us. However, reacting to the crisis, Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers) said the APC administration has done nothing to show that Nigerian lives matter. In a statement he personally forwarded to Daily Independent on Wednesday, China said: “The government is doing almost nothing; nobody is saying anything serious to Nigerians. This docile and irresponsive attitude of government is prompting self help posture of Nigerians. “A responsible government should have taken clear steps and gained confidence of the people that their government will or is protecting their interest”, he said.