LAGOS – These are not the best of times for Vice- President Yemi Osinbajo as some power brokers in the Presidency, widely regarded as the cabals are determined to cut him to size. Though he has issued a statement alleging that all is well between him and his principal, President Muhammadu Buhari, sources said Osinbajo is under intense pressure to resign his position with immediate effect. It was gathered from reliable sources that since the latest developments in the Presidency started, Osinbajo has received calls from his mentors and loyalists within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to quit his position if he realises “ the current developments in the Presidency is an attempt to humiliate him”. “ Since these developments started, a lot of concerned Nigerians have expressed their concern that the Vice—President should resign in order to avoid further humiliation. I think that is the intention of those behind the plot too. They want to frustrate him into quitting but I don’t think he (Osinbajo) will do that, at least not for now” a credible source in the Presidency said. Trouble began last month when the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari issued a memo to Babatunde Fowler, Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), requesting him to account for significant variances in the budgeted collections and actual collections by the agency. Though Fowler who is a long standing associate of Osinbajo has replied the memo, many believe it is an attempt by the Presidency not to renew his term. Also, President Muhammadu Buhari directed his new Ministers to channel all requests for meetings with him through his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. Many Nigerians kicked against the move saying that should have been delegated to Osinbajo, who is the number two man in the government. On Monday, President Buhari dissolved the Economic Management Team (EMT) headed by Osinbajo with an Economic Advisory Council (EAC). Membership of the disbanded EMT, chaired by Osinbajo, had the following members: Minister of Finance; Minister of Budget and National Planning; Minister of State for Budget and National Planning; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment; Minister of Agriculture; Minister of Information and Culture; Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria; Special Adviser to the President on Economic Matters; Director-General of the Budget Office; Director-General of the Debt Management Office; and Director-General of the National Bureau of Statistics. The new EAC, which reports directly to the president, will be chaired by an economist, Prof. Doyin Salami. Other members of the council are: Dr. Mohammed Sagagi (vice chairman), Prof. Ode Ojowu (member), Dr. Shehu Yahaya (member), Dr. Iyabo Masha (member), Prof. Chukwuma Soludo (member), Mr. Bismarck Rewane (member), and Dr. Mohammed Adaya Salisu (secretary). While Osinbajo has no role in the new Economic team, it was also gathered that he may no longer be in charge of the Social Investment Programmes (SIP) of the current administration. As the Tradermoni and other SIPs will now be handled by the new Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs. Another presidency source also confirmed that the staff of the Vice- President will be reduced in the days ahead “in a cost cutting measures”. A source claimed that Osinbajo incurred the wrath of the cabals due to some key decisions he took when he stood in for President Buhari in acting capacity. He listed the decisions as the sack of Lawan Daura as the Director- General of the Department of State Services (DSS) and the confirmation of Walter Onnoghen, former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). However, the Presidency has disproved claims that the office of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has been sidelined Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina said the presidency is united and that Buhari is only working for the good of Nigerians. He said that the insinuation that there was a rift between Osinbajo and Buhari was being spread by detractors of the Federal Government. “The Vice President is the number two man in the country…The new economic advisory body can also relate with the Vice President as necessary. It’s just some Nigerians who want to drive a wedge between the President and the VP, that read meanings into everything and insinuate but there’s no need for that.” Speaking on the latest developments, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) said the setting up of the Economic Advisory team will not in anyway reduce Osinbajo’s powers. “Honestly, I don’t see the development in that light. There should be an independent Economic Management team who are economic advisers to the President; it has always been like that. What Osinbajo is doing his job under the constitution as chairman of National Economic Council which involves all the governors of the states’. ‘ This new one that was established is to ensure that there is no lacuna. This one is a policy-framing body, they frame policy and recommend to the government . I think that will not affect Osinbajo’s day-to-day responsibilities as head of the Nigerian Economic Council which has a lot of work on implementing policies at the federal and state level’. “My view is that this new group will strengthen Nigeria’s economic power house and capacity to meet our national challenges. It does not remove anything from Osinbajo. He still retains all his constitutional authorities as the chairman of his economic body” Sagay said. On his part, Junaid Mohammed, a Second Republic lawmaker said while there is no rift between Osinbajo and Buhari, loyalists of the Vice- President should desist from raising false alarm where there is none. “Osinbajo has performed for the country and for Buhari because of the President’s physical infirmity since he became president. Osinbajo could not have carried out those roles without the permission and authority of the President, his boss. If there is anything wrong in the course of doing his job, it is the responsibility of the President and not the media to call him to order”. “If the two most important people in the country have a problem between themselves which i don’t believe they have, it is the duty of the party to resolve any issues they have. But of course, i am aware that some people who claim to be close to Osinbajo are busy raising false alarm which does not exists” he said.