Lagos – The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said deposit money banks in the country would henceforth be penalised for non-return of un-applied funds to payer’s account within 24 hours and for transactions not consummated within the timelines prescribed in the relevant payment channel regulation. The banks are expected to pay a penalty of N1,000 per transaction or any part thereof not consummated within stipulated timeline and funds to be returned at the prevailing monetary policy rate (MPR) for the period and report of infraction in annual report.
For non-provision of quarterly report on end-to-end e-payment of salaries, pensions, suppliers and taxes to the CBN, and submission of false or inaccurate reports, banks would pay N5,000 penalty for each day for which report is not provided to the CBN, while penalty of N250,000 and a warning letter would be issued to the managing director.
For a third party e-payment solution that is not approved by CBN, the apex bank will terminate use of the unapproved end-to-end e-payment solution, send a warning letter to the managing director, while a penalty of N2 million for banks and N1 million for other financial institutions (OFIs) on every repeated occurrence would apply.
Similarly, non-provision of evidence that an automated notification was sent to beneficiaries who signed up for the alert services and charges applied would attract refund of charges at twice the value deducted.
These, among others, were contained in the 2019 Revised Regulation on Electronic Payments and Collections for Public and Private Sectors In Nigeria made available on its website on Tuesday.
This regulation shall take effect from the date of its issuance by the CBN.
The regulation is a revision of the Guidelines on Electronic Payment of Salaries, Pensions, Suppliers and Taxes in Nigeria (2014), and is intended to guide the end-to-end electronic payment of salaries, pensions and other remittances, suppliers and revenue collections in Nigeria.
This regulation applies to all CBN regulated entities operating in Nigeria and mandates adoption, implementation, and compliance with the directives on end-to-end electronic payments of all forms of salaries, pensions & other remittances, suppliers, revenue collections, including but not limited to taxes, levies, penalties, recoveries, assessments, and the disbursement of funds for social programmes payment bills, honorarium, scholarships, allowances, etc. herein referred to collectively as ‘payments and collections’.
The objective of the Regulation is to fully align with the core objectives of the National Payments System Vision 2020 (PSV2020) to ensure the availability of safe, effective, and efficient mechanisms for conveniently making and receiving all types of payments from any location and, at any time, through multiple electronic channels.
This will reduce the time and costs of transactions, minimise leakages in revenue receipts and, at the same time, provide reliable audit trails, thereby ensuring that the Nigerian Payments System aligns with international best practices.
This regulation is therefore set out to provide all stakeholders with the operational procedures that guide end-to-end electronic payment for the Public and Private Sector.
Under the regulation, Deposit Money Banks (DMBs), Other Financial Institutions (OFIs), and Mobile Money Operators (MMOs) are expected to promote the adoption of end-to-end electronic payments by all stakeholders covered by this regulation.
They are also to provide payers and beneficiaries with appropriate accounts with DMBs, OFIs or any other approved channel for receiving payments such as mobile money/electronic wallet, subject to the CBN’s approved KYC limits.
Banks are to process electronic payment instructions in accordance with subsisting payments system and clearing system rules; publish customer service/ contact centres details via multiple media channels, and maintain customer service contact centres, to promptly attend to all electronic payment enquiries and challenges within stipulated timelines, and report of customer complaints, indicating resolution status.