The Kardashians have become a household name thanks to their show, “Keeping Up with the Kardashians,” and their entrepreneurial skills. Recently, Kourtney Kardashian invited her pastors, Chad and Julia Veach and talked about raising her kids with faith. Kourtney shared that when they were kids, Robert Kardashian, their father, used to read them the Bible. She said, “We grew up always hearing Bible stories. My dad always read us Bible stories.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In her YouTube lifestyle channel Poosh, she invited the pastors to talk about God and how to instil the same faith in her children as well. She asked them, “So I just wonder if there’s something you guys do, or that’s really important to you, like routines or things that you do with your own family that could be helpful.” Kourtney Kardashian
Kourtney Kardashian attends the premiere of ‘The Promise’ at the Chinese theatre in Hollywood, on April 12, 2017 Getty
The mom of three asked the pastors how they instill faith within their children without forcing it on them. In his reply, Chad shared his own morning routine: “Even on the drive to school every morning as I’m getting ready to drop off my son I’m like ‘Alright, I’m going to pray over you and remember, you’re a leader in your school and people follow you and I’m going to pray that you are a light on your campus.” The couple also shared that they are trying to raise their kids well by believing in God. Julia shared a bit of very important advice with Kourtney, “I think like with a lot of things, like culture and our faith it’s more caught than it is taught. So yeah we want to teach things but a lot of time the kids are this is what they do, this is who we are.” Kourtney Kardashian also said she plays “church songs” in the morning to add a vibe in their home. Both Chad and Julia are spiritual advisors of Justin and Hailey Bieber and Chris Pratt. They are pastors in a young vibrant church in LA. The show ended with Chad praying for Kourtney. He asked God to show her the right path.