While cities like London are struggling to accommodate the masses of people that want to make it home, a region in Italy is having to entice people by paying them to move there. Molise, a picturesque hilltop area in Southern Italy, is desperate to increase its population, so is offering €700 (£621) a month for three years, to anyone who wants to make it their forever home. That is a sweet sweet sum of €25,200 (£22,343) across the three years.And while the town gets hot summers, it can suffer cool winters, but we still think we could be tempted. The catch is, you must open a business in one of Molise’s town and that town must have a population with less than 2,000 inhabitants. The president of Molise, Donato Toma, doesn’t mind what business you have in mind, they just want to retain new residents and give people a reason to stay. He told The Guardian: “They can open any sort of activity: a bread shop, a stationery shop, a restaurant, anything. “It’s a way to breathe life into our towns while also increasing the population.” The underpopulated towns will also receive £9,000 to help build infrastructure and promote cultural activities. Donato Toma added: “It’s not just a matter of increasing the population. People also need infrastructure and a reason to stay, otherwise we’ll end up back where we started in a few years.” The government will also want you to improve your Italian language skills, so you do need to work a bit for your monthly money. The area was nominated for 2019’s Italy’s Most Beautiful Town contest and boasts beautiful towns that don’t allow cars inside, making it a calm peaceful place to live. It is also known for its ancient Christmas traditions and cheese (this place sounds too good to be true – are we right?), has lost 9,000 people since 2014 who either chose to leave the area or passed away. It makes for pretty depressing statistics. And in 2018, not a single birth was registered in any of its nine towns – no wonder they are paying people to move there.