Walking, they say, is good for the heart; but walking for a cause is better for a soul and walking for a cause is what Centre For Values In Leadership (CVL) is calling upon Nigerians to do.
CVL is the foundation set up by Prof. Pat Utomi, a Nigerian professor of political economy and management expert, and a former presidential candidate, to address the leadership questions in Nigeria.
A team from CVL on Tuesday, September 2, visited Independent Newspapers Limited’s corporate headquarters, Lagos to intimate the media outfit on the coming walk, with the intention to create awareness for the event.
According to Francisca Ukabiala, Director of Corporate Services, CVL who led the team of three, Prof. Utomi had found that “Nigeria’s problem is that of leadership and he has a personal mantra not to critique any social phenomenon without providing a solution. That was how CVL was birthed.”
Also making up the team was Adaobi Obunike, the Programme Officer for ‘Walk The Talk’ initiative and Emmanuel Adelagun, another Programme Officer at CVL
Speaking on the walk which will kick off at 7am on the said day, Ukabiala revealed that “the CVL ‘Walk the Talk; Accountability in Good Governance’ roadshow is a personal CSR of the staff of CVL. It was started to preach to young and old people alike to walk their talk and practice what they preach.
“Every year, we do the programme around different themes. The programme is a one-day walk scheduled to hold on the 21st of September. Asides the road walk, there would be brief stops with personalities and other worthy role models speaking on different topics around the theme.
“We will start at our center at Balarabe Musa Crescent. There will be a stop at Radisson Blu, another at Bonny Camp, and the walk will end at Silverbird Galleria where we would watch a movie also around the theme. This is just to buttress the point we are trying to make that citizens of Nigeria should be engaged in governance and that they should demand accountability from their leaders.”
Ukabiala also added that “At the time the leaders were vying for their different elective posts, they made some promises, most of which they don’t keep to. The idea is to encourage citizens. We will have placards saying ‘Walk your Talk’, ‘If you make a promise, keep it’…”
Also speaking on the challenges the initiative faces, having been in operation for three years, she shared, “One of the biggest challenges we have is funding. That is why members of staff of CVL have decided that the event would hold even if we have to pay from our pockets to ensure it is done. We have to also walk our talk. If we work in a leadership institute, then we should lead by example.
“Another challenge is apathy in society. People sometimes don’t like to deal with things like this, they feel that there is some political undertone, so they keep away especially organisations. Some also feel that because we are walking, or marching, it might be seen as a protest. Of course, we manage to allay fears; we get the police involved, LASTMA, LAWMA, all to ensure that it all works well.”
Ukabiala ended by saying that social media remains a veritable tool of action for citizens. “As a citizen, you have to be engaged. You can actually do something especially with the power of social media,” she said.
Among those expected to walk are personalities like Prof. Utomi, Prof. Chidi Odinkalu, Bekeme Masade-Olowola, Stanley Ikechukwu, Zeal Akaraiwe among others.