LAGOS – The recent attacks on Nigerians residing in South Africa by citizens of that country have continued to generate a lot of reactions. This time around, the reactions are not only from the Nigerian government, but also from the citizens, who have for long kept their cool over the issue. To a lot of Nigerians, South Africans should be the last people that will launch any kind of attack on Nigerians living and working in the country. Nigeria’s Role In Ending Apartheid In South Africa Powered by RubiQube Ad Network History has it that during the apartheid era in South Africa, Nigeria was one of the foremost supporters of anti-apartheid movements, including the African National Congress; the Nigerian government issued more than 300 passports to South Africans seeking to travel abroad. Also, the late Nigerian musician, Sonny Okosuns, in 1976, wrote the hit song “Fire in Soweto”, to commemorate the 1976 Soweto uprising against apartheid in South Africa. Following the end of apartheid in 1994, South African businesses sought for professionals to immigrate and a large number of Nigerians did so. It is estimated that there were 24,000 Nigerians living in South Africa as at 2011. Beginning Of Competition Between The Two Countries Increasing competition between the two countries for positions at multilateral organisations is also thought to have worsened relations. Nigeria acted against South Africa to replace the incumbent Jean Ping, who Nigeria supports, with South African Home Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma for the powerful position of the African Union Commission chairperson. Relations further deteriorated when South Africa backed incumbent president Laurent Gbagbo for control of Côte d’Ivoire in 2011. However, after Dlamini-Zuma won the election Nigeria’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Olugbenga Ashiru stated that although Nigeria supported Ping for the position of AU chairperson in “a position which was principled along with our ECOWAS members and we stood by it. But, as usual, people can insinuate that once Nigeria was not in the camp of South Africa, it means that Nigeria is against South Africa. We are not against South Africa.” Relations between the two countries were damaged in 2012 when 125 Nigerian travellers to South Africa were expelled due to not having valid Yellow Fever certificates. In retaliation Nigeria expelled 56 South African businessmen. This prompted the two countries to enter into discussions around easing travel and visa restrictions between the two countries as a means of enhancing bilateral relations and trade. Economic Ties In November 2009, South Africa hosted the South Africa-Nigeria Bi-National Commission in Pretoria. At the conference, it was noted that Oando, an energy conglomerate based in Lagos had recently been listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the Nigeria-based Dangote Group had invested a record $378 million in South Africa’s cement industry. In 2008, approximately $2.1 billion was traded between the two states. By 2012 total bilateral trade had increased to $3.6 billion. In 2012 83 per cent of trade was taken up by South African imports of Nigerian crude oil. Between 2002 and 2012, South African imports from Nigeria have increased by 750 per cent (mostly increases in oil imports) while Nigerian imports from South Africa have increased by 130 per cent. The Nigeria-South Africa Chamber of Commerce serves to improve and facilitate bi-lateral trade relationships between Nigeria and South Africa. Its offices are in Lagos and it has in its membership 315 companies currently trading in both Nigeria and South Africa. It is made up of blue-chip companies, Nigerian companies and South African companies. Nigerian businesspeople have expressed concern over the pace and perceived rapid expansion of South African business interests in the country. Recent Attacks And Killings Of Nigerians By South Africans Recently, South Africans citizens have continued to attack and kill Nigerians residing in the country, apart from some of these attacks, there have also been yet to be unresolved murders of Nigerian citizens in South Africa. Few months ago, a Nigerian woman, Elizabeth Ndubuisi-Chukwu, an insurance expert, was reportedly strangled to death in her hotel room during a visit to the South African city of Johannesburg. An autopsy revealed that she died of irregular causes consistent with strangulation, but South African officials maintained that CCTV footage showed that nobody entered her room. In March, a Nigerian was killed in a drive-by shooting in Pretoria. According to eyewitnesses, the attackers were trailing his car and drove beside him when he stopped, shooting him multiple times. The victim, 44, was attacked after he had dropped off his brother. SAPS said a case of murder was being investigated. Also in April, Goziem Akpenyi was stabbed to death at Bellville Stadium parking lot in Cape Town at about 1 pm. He was stabbed by three unidentified coloured South African men after an argument and died on the spot. Another 34-year-old Nigerian, Samuel Nkennaya, was killed by some South Africans. His attackers claimed to have thought he kidnapped a six-year-old girl he was holding. Nkennaya was mobbed together with his friend Chinonso Nwudo when they came out of a supermarket. Nkennaya died at the scene of the mob while Nwudo was left in critical condition. In May, Okechukwu Henry from Nigeria’s Imo State was stabbed to death by unidentified robbers in Mpumalanga. Henry, a car dealer who specialised in used cars, lived in Middleburg Mpumalanga Province. Earlier before his death, some two local guys had indicated interest to buy his car – a white Volkswagen Polo. After negotiation, they requested to take the car for a test ride. Henry accepted and drove along with them. As they drove out, he suddenly realised that they were robbers, as they demanded the key of the car. They stabbed him several times, took the keys but could not manage to drive away from the car. Their action attracted the attention of people around and they ran away with the keys without the car. Lai Mohammed Reacts As Angry Nigerian Youths Took to the Streets in Protest Nigeria’s Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on Tuesday, however, described the attacks by angry Nigerians on South African businesses as “deeply disturbing”, saying that targeting South African businesses is a “classic case of cutting off your nose to spite your face. “Some angry Nigerians took to the street in some parts of the country on Tuesday attacking companies such as MTN, Shoprite, PEP, Dstv, all supposedly belonging to South Africa. Though, some hoodlums took advantage of the outrage against the treatment of their countrymen in South Africa. A major South African clothing retailer, PEP which has one of its stores in Surulere area of Lagos, was looted on Tuesday evening. Videos and pictures of the looting were circulated by several Twitter users on Tuesday. Some hoodlums on Tuesday evening burned down the MTN office in Bodija, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Also in Lagos, at least a man was allegedly killed by policemen outside a Shoprite outlet in Lekki area of Lagos. Eyewitness accounts have it that the man was shot by the police while they (police) were trying to prevent looting of the shopping mall. A police vehicle was also reportedly burnt in the fracas. The Information minister in a statement by his spokesman, Segun Adeyemi, said noted that those attacks on the companies were needless, adding that majority of the workers in the South African companies operating in Nigeria are also Nigerians. Mohammed stated that Nigerian workers in the companies will be hardest hit if such companies are forced to shut down for fear of attacks. While assuring Nigerians that the Federal Government was already taking decisive measures to put an end to the persistent xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa, the minister disclosed that, ”President Muhammadu Buhari has dispatched a Special Envoy to convey to his South African counterpart, President Cyril Ramaphosa, his concerns and also interact with his South African counterpart on the situation.” He also said the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, acting on the instructions of President Buhari, summoned the South African High Commissioner to Nigeria to get a brief on the situation. He said Mr Onyeama expressed Nigeria’s displeasure over the treatment of her citizens and secured assurance of the safety of their lives and property. Nigerians React A public affairs analyst, Olukayode Salako, who spoke to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, recounted his experience when he had the opportunity to visit South Africa. “I travelled to Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town in South Africa sometime in the past and I never aspired to visit the country again. The environment I saw was too unfriendly to foreigners, dangerous, wild, crude, tensional and highly crime prone. I never applied for visa to go to the place again. “South Africans behave like wild animals. I was afraid throughout my one and a half month stay in the country. South Africa is never a place for me to visit any more. I pity our countrymen that live in that country. They should come back home or go somewhere else. South Africans don’t value the lives of other human beings except that of themselves and their animals.” In the past few weeks, attacks on Nigerians and their businesses in South Africa seem to have gone out of hand and a lot of reactions have trailed these attacks. The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 elections, Atiku Abubakar, called for the involvement of the African Union (AU) in ending xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. Atiku tweeted on Tuesday saying that urgent steps need to be taken with South African authorities and the AU on the issue. “Reported attacks against Nigerians in South Africa are unacceptable and stands condemned. Urgent steps need to be taken with the SA authorities and the African Union to bring an end to this ill wind that can only end up destroying the fabric of our African brotherhood,” he said. The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, on her part, said that the intervention of the African Union (AU) would be vital in ending attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. She said that although she could not verify most of the videos of the attacks, whatever decisions needed to be taken could only be done at the ministerial level. “Sad, Reports from South Africa attacking foreigners. I can’t verify most of the videos. However, whatever decisions to be taken now can only be at the ministerial level. AU intervention may be crucial. This is not what we should be doing to ourselves as Africans,” she said on Monday. Also, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo joined in condemning the attacks on Nigerians in South Africa, describing the development as a betrayal of the key role Nigeria played to liberate the country from apartheid. Osinbajo, who spoke in Kano during a visit to inaugurate the Energising Education Power Project at Bayero University, Kano, said: “Let me say first that these recent attacks are condemnable. It is very sad and very unfortunate that the lives and livelihoods of Nigerians living in South Africa are once again being destroyed with such wantonness and with such carelessness and recklessness. “It is unfortunate because Nigeria and Nigerians invested a great deal in the destruction and the pulling down of apartheid. Besides, these acts of bigotry are entirely contrary to the very ideals that all the great South African leaders including the present President fought for, and for which many gave their lives. “Mr. President has already spoken about this and obviously we are very concerned and certainly intend to take this up with the authorities in South Africa in order to ensure that this sort of thing does not repeat itself. This is absolutely unacceptable and unconscionable,” said Osinbajo. A federal lawmaker representing Apapa Federal Constituency, Hon. Mufutau Egberongbe, on Wednesday, called on the Federal Government to immediately cut all ties including economic and social, as a means of ending the incessant attacks on Nigerians. Egberongbe, who condemned the recent attacks on Nigerians, also accused the South African government of not showing any commitment in calling its citizens to order. In an exclusive interview with our correspondent, the lawmaker noted that all over the world, the primary obligation of any responsible government is the protection of lives and properties of the citizens. According to him, “I am not seeing any commitment on the part of South African government. I am tempted to say that I am seeing the hand of the South African government in this whole issue. Otherwise, why haven’t they been able to apprehend one person ever since this whole thing has been happening to show that they are very serious about securing our people? “All over the world, security of lives and properties of the citizens should be primary concern of every responsible government. South Africans have been killing other our people on the premise that Nigerians are taking over their jobs and their women. “It is high time, Nigeria cut all ties with South Africa, at least in the meantime, let their envoy go back to their country and let us close our embassy in their country and let our representative there come back home. We will also close their embassy here in our country until this problem is resolved. “As a sign of seriousness, let us cut all ties, including economic and social ties, let their airline not enter into our country for now. This will show them that we are serious about this problem.” Egberongbe stated that nothing can be so gory than seeing human beings being burnt to death, adding that South Africa has treated Nigerians so badly in the past. “We have not forgotten how they sent some of our people back home because of yellow card, it was not done by the individual citizens, it was done by their government. “And I also think it is high time that history as a subject is made compulsory in our schools so that students and people of South Africa will appreciate the enormous financial contribution and human resources contributed to their independence by the Nigerian nation. We are a major contributor to their liberation, so if they are doing this to us, it is unacceptable. “Our people should also be calm and stop the destruction of South African companies in Nigeria because it will bounce back to our people who are predominantly working in those companies,” he added. Ramaphosa’s Reaction South African President, Cyril Ramaphosa, in his late reaction, called for the arrest of those involved in a spate of attacks targeting foreign-owned businesses in the country. Ramaphosa said in a statement that he had convened a security meeting with law enforcement agencies to stop the violence. He said there was no justification for the attacks and warned that violence on foreign businesses could trigger xenophobic attacks against South Africans living abroad. “The attacks on people who run businesses from foreign nationals is totally unacceptable. There can be no justification whatsoever about what people are having a grievance over that they should go out and attack people from other countries because when they do so here, they should also know that fellow South Africans will be attacked in other countries,” Ramaphosa said. Presidency’s Drastic Action President Muhammadu Buhari had earlier on Tuesday sent a special envoy down to South Africa to meet President Ramaphosa and register his displeasure over the killing of Nigerians in South Africa. While the envoy was yet to arrive South Africa, Buhari on Wednesday, ordered the recall of the Nigerian High Commissioner to South Africa, Ambassador Kabiru Bala. A source at the Presidency, who pleaded anonymity, disclosed this to reporters covering the State House. Also, in a bid to express its displeasure, the Nigerian government boycotted the World Economic Forum on Africa expected to hold in Cape Town, South Africa, between September 4 and 6, 2019. Vice President Osinbajo, who was to represent Nigeria at the forum and was supposed to have travelled on Wednesday, failed to make the trip as he reported for duties at the Presidential Villa. The source noted that Nigeria has also demanded full compensation for the victims of the attacks. According to the source, this is the outcome of a meeting between President Buhari, Vice President Osinbajo and the Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, where they held a brainstorming session on the raging xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. It is hoped that this recent decision by the Federal Government of Nigeria, will bring about a lasting solution to these xenophobic attacks on Nigerians living in South Africa.