Recently, the governor of Imo State, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha CON, KSC, restated that he was elected by the people of Imo State to do the right things as well as to do things right. I had once upon a time clarified the difference between doing right things and doing things right. I’m not dwelling on that in this short essay.
My purpose here is to make a rehash of the connotata and denotata of that expression: “Doing right things and doing things right.” That summarises the philosophy of life of the governor. It resonates his favourite mantra of “my word my bond.” It manifests his cherished chieftaincy title of “ome nke ahuru anya”!
Just like during his days of consultations and electioneering campaign up till May 29, 2019 when he assumed office as Imo governor, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, has been doing right things and doing things right. He created a very cordial relationship with all classes of people in the State viz traditional rulers and their subjects, town unions and their presidents-general, religious leaders and the laity, security chiefs with their rank and file, civil service leaders and civil servants, market leaders and market people, transport owners and transport workers, artisans and professional people.
The sense in doing that is philosophical. The whole essence of government and governance is about the people. This is more so in a democratic leadership dispensation as that being enjoyed in Nigeria since 1999. Therefore, the governor is doing the right in the right way by ensuring that he is carrying all categories of Ndimo along in his charismatic leadership.
Right from May 29, shortly after his swearing in and inauguration, Governor Ihedioha began the selection and appointment of some of the best heads and hands as his aides. That was quintessential and even sine-qua-non in the running of the RebuildImo administration. It was the right thing to do that was done in the right way.
Gov. Ihedioha began early the practice of appointing capable heads and hands to work with him. For example, he appointed a reputable medical practitioner and seasoned public administrator, Dr. Vin Udokwu, as the Director-General, Ihedioha Campaign Organisation.
The Spokesman of Ihedioha Campaign Organization was the cerebral gentleman lawyer, Barr. Kissinger Ikeokwu. Gov. Ihedioha does right things and does things right!
Gov. Ihedioha has the willingness and readiness to assemble the best human capital resources in Imo State for the task of rebuilding the State, which he declared early enough as his divine vision and mission. Soon after his assumption of office, Gov. Ihedioha selected and assembled from the very best brains in Imo State, the leaders and members of the Transition Technical Committee (TTC), led by Mr. Clement End, with Her Excellency, Amb. Dr. Mrs. Kema Chikwe, as his deputy. There were a total of 139 intellectuals, technocrats and professionals in the TTC.
Quickly at the heels of the TTC was the 400-member “Inauguration Planning and Handover Committee”. That Committee too also had as leaders and members, some of the best heads up hands in Imo State of this generation.
Today, after election Gov. Ihedioha has appointed thoroughly educated men and women, who have been delivering on their respective assignments by the governor. And the man is so good at delegating appropriate assignments, tasks, duties and responsibilities to his appointees. All of them are good at what they do. So far, so good!
The litany of doing right things and doing things right by Gov. Ihedioha is extensive. Right from when he served as a national legislator par excellence, Gov. Ihedioha has developed the penchant and knack for good leadership. It’s that very robust background experience that has brought to bear in his fledgling administration. His best testimony of doing right things and doing things right is his persistence and insistence in upholding Ogu Bundu Nwadike,
Imo State