Rep. Yakubu Barde (APC-Chukun Kajuru, Kaduna State), on Wednesday in Kaduna distributed N1.2 million scholarship to 19 medical students of Kaduna State University (KASU).
Barde said that the cheques were to encourage the students who are studying medicine, a course that requires a lot of finance, NAN reports.
Represented by his Special Assistant, Mr Salasi Musa, the lawmaker said the medical students could excel more in their studies if other members of their constituencies invest more on education, which is the future of Nigeria youths.
“Medicine is one of the most important professions to humanity. I feel mandated to support the cause of making a career out of the course especially to members of my constituency with scholarships.
“Studying medicine requires a lot of things ranging from finance and other academic needs, as a father and a politician, I feel mandated to come in with my resources and support the cause.
“In the future, the students, after making a career out of the course would in turn support humanity by providing their services to the needy who may not have the resources to pay.
“The scholarship ranges from N50,000 to N80,000; those from 200-300 level received N50,000 each, those in 400 level received N70,000 and those in 500 level received N80,000,’’ Barde said.
The President of KASU Medical Students Association, Mr Bayero Samuel, described the gesture as a giant stride considering the hardship some of the medical students face in the cause of studies.
“Studying medicine is accompanied by a lot of financial needs, especially buying of texts books, clinical and training materials; this scholarship will assist them have those materials at their disposal.
“It would also help them to settle down mentally and focus more on their studies rather than think of how to get money to buy things required by the course,’’ said the student union leader.
Samuel commended Barde intervention, noting that it is the first of its kind by any legislator to assist students of KASU with scholarship.
“We hope this would be a challenge that would trigger other politicians to emulate and engage in helping students to alleviate their sufferings in academics,” he said.
Earlier, KASU’s Provost, Prof. Abdullahi Abba, thanked Barde for assisting the students from his constituency and urged other politicians to emulate the gesture.