Chief Samson Oyimi is a Community leader and a PDP stalwart from Ogbe-Ijoh Kingdom, Warri, Delta State. He is a one-time chairman and Secretary of Ogbe-Ijoh Warri Kingdom Governing Council. In this interview with JOHN AMUDO, he speaks on recent developments in the country. Excerpts: From your own perspective, what would you say is the state of the nation at the moment? The state of the nation is in a very terrible situation because, since the inception of the President Buhari administration, there has been a dramatic change. I want to state from the onset that the administrative approach of a system affects the output of that system. By administrative approach here I mean the ideology of the driver of a system. And I’m saying that where the ideology of the driver of a system is in tandem with the expectations of the masses, then the masses will be completely submissive to the leadership of the driver of the system. But from what Nigerians are experiencing at the moment one could conclude that the Buhari administration’s ideology is widely at variance with the expectations of the masses. He is only looking at one particular region. Even in his speech during his inauguration in the first tenure, he made it clear that he will only give attention to those areas where he got massive votes. But the question is, when you take a critical look at the areas where he purportedly got his massive votes, what is their contribution to the nation’s economy? Once you become a leader, you must carry everybody along irrespective of those that voted for you or against you. So, the ideology of President Buhari at the moment is not only at variance with the expectations of the people, but it is making it difficult for the nation to move forward. Can you expatiate on this? Let me give you good example with the issue of insecurity in the country. Look at the activities of the Fulani herdsmen, look at the Boko Haram in the North East and the activities of bandits in the North West. The Fulani herdsmen, for example, I have been around since the inception of this country. They have been living with us. So, what suddenly went wrong that they have become a terror among Nigerians, visiting all kinds of criminal activities on all parts of the country? The same is the Boko Haram. Were they not there during Obasanjo regime? They were there and the Sambisa forest which has become their headquarters has been there. So, what has suddenly changed since the inception of Buhari regime? There is no state that is spared the havoc of the herdsmen. The 36 states of the federation, including the federal capital territory, are affected by the activities of Fulani herdsmen. They have been with us over the years. Who are the Fulani herdsmen? Are they not the cattle rearers whom we have been relating with for decades now? They have been living peacefully with their neighbours and host communities. What therefore caused the sudden dramatic change? It is the ideological concept of who is in power. Has the Buhari administration done enough for the development of the Niger Delta region? The Niger Delta is home to the production of crude oil that sustains the nation’s economy. I’m deeply involved in the activities of the oil and gas sector. Since the inception of the Buhari regime, there has not been any budget for the development of the infrastructure in the upstream and downstream sectors. The oil industry is just struggling and managing with old infrastructures. If you come to my area, Ajuju Batam oil field and the Odidi Jones Creek oil fields, we have a lot of oil wells that are aged. As a petrochemical engineer (I’m a petrochemical engineer by profession), I’m aware the wells are aged. They are drilled in the 60s. How do you expect a well drilled in the 60s to still produce well now without proper maintenance? There are some of them you need to shut down for a period of time, and drill other wells. In the 90s, a company, Western Geophysical, did a seismic survey and spotted areas which are known as oil reservoirs. Those reservoirs ought to be drilled by now. When they are drilled, they become very fresh and they produce more for you and boost the overall oil production in the country. But the President does not look in that direction. Again, take a look at the oil pipeline network infrastructure in the Niger Delta. They are also aged – and that is responsible for the incessant oil spillage due to pipeline damage. The pipelines which were laid in the sixties have also become aged. What about gas flaring? Gas is one of the highest selling hydrocarbon byproducts. We have been wasting our gas resources everyday by flaring instead of compressing it and preparing it for industrial and domestic uses. It is not as if they don’t know what to do to improve on the system but because of the ideology that if I do this it will favour a region which is not their interest. But they forget that this is the area from where the bulk of the resources they use in managing the economy come. What advice will you give to the Buari administration going forward? The government ought to carry everybody along collectively irrespective of which ethnic nationality you are. As a President, he is supposed to listen to the people. The former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo has written a lot of letters to the President. Call the opinion leaders and hear from them, what is the problem of this country?. You who is in government, there are certain things which you may not see compared to those who are by the sides. They may see little things that matter. You are in the hot seat; when you are in the hot seat it is not everything you see. So, to address most of these issues, the President and his cabinet should listen to the advice of elder statesmen and opinion leaders of the various geopolitical zones. If possible, call for a conference to hear from the people. I want to repeat, the Boko Haram and the killer herdsmen they are talking about, are they not human beings? They are human beings. Even though it is believed that some of them are imported into this country, there are people who import them. You cannot come into somebody’s home without being led by someone from inside. And that is where the problem is. Talking about your assumption that the leader’s ideology determines the response of the people, do you see the recent protest of a group with hashtag #RevolutionNow as a potential reaction that could snowball into mass protest in the future? You see, Nigeria is a place where you have too many ethnic nationalities. Otherwise, what is happening in the country now is far more than what happens in other countries of the world where the masses would rise against their leadership that they are tired. What do they mean by revolution? It is for people to come out to say we are tired; we are tired because things are not going well as we expected. As I speak with you, the oil production in Nigeria is 2.2 million barrels per day. But do you have anything to show for it even though oil now sells for about $64 barrels per barrel? But that is still good money. Go to some countries that have no oil, their economy, living standard of the people and state of infrastructure are very okay.