OWERRI – The people of Imo State gathered on September 6, 2019 at the Cenotaph site popularly known as Heroes Square along Concorde Hotel road where the state Governor, Emeka Ihedioha stood for more than an hour, reading his prepared speech and accounted for his journey in less than four months in office. Being focused will remain the task of the administration in the cause of rebuilding the state from years of ruins and neglect, Ihedioha said. As the Governor endeavours to send the message across, the people on the streets of Owerri are of the view that a lot more needed to be achieved, apparently to get them out of what was described as eight years of socio-economic difficulties allegedly occasioned by the immediate past administration led by Senator Rochas Okorocha. In his address at an event marking his hundred days in office, the governor scored himself high in various sectors of the state economy and in line with Imo Growth and Strategic Development Agenda plan (G-SDP) being a “two stage development horizon of a 5 year Economic Blueprint” said to have been conceived by the Transition Technical Committee. The group he said provided the roadmap for the overall economic growth and development of the State which include among other things the delivery of 381km rural access road projects, restoration of an improved Owerri master-plan, restoration of water supply in Owerri metropolis, roll out of Imo State Health Insurance scheme as well as the reactivation of four technical education institutions in the State. The Governor stated that the blueprint include an economic growth and strategic development with emphasis on human capital development, Agriculture and food security, infrastructure, industrialisation and job creation as well as security and environment. Governor Ihedioha stated that within 100 days in office, “the State Internal Generated Revenue, IGR, increased from all-time low of about N300m in July to N600m in August. “This was as a result of transparency and accountability in the governance process with the signing into law, Executive Order 005 known as Treasury Single Account which consolidated all government revenues under one account. “Imo State is now on track to join open Governance partnership which now qualifies it for performance based grants of the World Bank and other multinational development institutions”. Governor Ihedioha noted that his administration has restored 100 percent workers salary in the State, paid backlog of Local Government workers and recalled all unjustly suspended Directors, reversed some undeserved promotions, sponsored officers to capacity building programmes. In the area of roads which has been in poor condition for many years, Governor Ihedioha said 14 critical roads are undergoing reconstruction while the Rural Access and Mobility Projects involves 70 Rural Roads network with a cumulative distance of 381 kilometres across 27 Local Governments. “Security has also received great attention in the last 100 days with the kickoff of Operation Iron Gate designed to combat crime and criminality and rid the State of all undesirable elements.” In the health sector, the Governor said the stalled Health Insurance Scheme has been re-launched in the State to connect into already existing Federal Government Insurance Scheme. On environmental sanitation he said, “Owerri our state capital was famed for its cleanliness, but in the last eight years, we witnessed a gross deterioration of our standards of beauty and sanitation. It could rightly be said that no State capital in our federation at any moment in our history suffered a conscious infrastructural dilapidation and decay like Owerri. Every visitor that visited Owerri had alluded to this fact. Immediately we assumed office, therefore, we embarked on the removal of mountains of refuse dumps that littered the state capital and followed immediately with the de-silting of blocked drainages to ensure a permanent solution to the issue of flooding in the capital city. “We have also revived the monthly state-wide clean-up exercises and have set up a high-powered committee to work with ENTRACO, the Imo State sanitation agency. We are delighted to observe that the face of Owerri is progressively changing. Only last week the Nigerian Association of Town Planners gave Owerri the 2019 Green Cities Promotion Award. “On the perennial power problems affecting the State, Governor Ihedioha said the Imo State Power and Rural Electrification Agency (I-POREA) has been constituted to evolve strategies to remove barriers to adequate exploitation of the power generation potentials in the State. “We have made remarkable progress towards the restoration of electricity supply to some areas of the State where it was non-existence for many years. 79 failed transformers across the State have been replaced and electricity supply restored to Inyishi Aluminum Extrusion Company and it’s environs as well as the completion of Oguta 33kv line electricity project.” He stated that water supply which has been lacking for many years in the State has been restored with the revitalisation of the Otammiri Water supply. He also revealed plans by his administration to provide 5000 affordable homes by 2023 by going into partnership with some reputable primary mortgage institutions. He reiterated the commitment of his administration to an agricultural roadmap which has been conceived by his Administration and which represents a comprehensive framework for self-sufficiency in food production both for domestic consumption and for exports purposes. The Governor said 500 youths from the 27 local governments of the State have been sent to Nassarawa State under the Imo Youths Agricultural Programme (IYAP). Governor Ihedioha noted that Rice farm cluster have been established at Amumara in Ezinihite Mbaise which will make Imo sufficient in the production of improved variety of rice seeds with a view of strengthening the rain value chain in the State. He said experts in rice brewing and processing from the Africa Rice Centre at IITA Ibadan will train young rural farmers in the State to grow and process improved rice seeds. He said the Avutu poultry farm is on the verge of being restored to a world class standard while ADAPALM will soon commence operations. Governor Ihedioha revealed that the State is set to host the only Agribusiness park in Nigeria at Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of the State. In the area of sports development, he said the Dan Anyiam stadium is being re-grassed after many years of neglect while installation of new flood lights, replacing the seats and constructing Olympic standard tartan tracks is underway. He said the Grasshopper International Handball stadium, Owerri will also begin to wear a new look while the local councils have joined the talent hunt programme of the State Government through construction of sporting facilities in their respective local governments. Governor Ihedioha announced that as part of his government’s determination to improve on ease of doing business in the State, the Imo State Enabling Business Environment Council, ISEBEC, would be inaugurated which will complement the revamped Imo State Government Bureau of Public Procurements and Price Intelligence. He said the State Government is willing in getting the process right once and for all after inheriting over 6 years of pension arrears and discovery of baffling discrepancies in the total number of pensioners in both the State and the 27 local governments. He explained that the ongoing pension verification is aimed at ending the perennial cycle of verification that has plagued the process for a long period. He said the State Government has achieved a lot in the area of sanitation by reviving the monthly clean up exercise while remarkable progress has been made in the education sector.