Abuja – The Federal Government has been urged to consider imposing taxes on vacant homes as part of strategies for dealing with the issue of affordable housing in the country. Ms. Leilani Farha, the United Nations’ Special Rapporteur on the Right to Adequate Housing, gave the advice in Abuja while delivering her end of the mission statement at the end her official country visit to Nigeria conducted from September 13 to 23, 2019.
Farha also said that, in addition to imposition of tax, expropriation of vacant homes for public purposes should also be considered to address urgent housing need, adding that evidence suggested that much money was being hidden in residential real estates left idle.
“A strategy for dealing with vacant homes should be put in place, including the consideration of imposing a tax on vacant homes that is then used to generate genuinely affordable housing.
“In addition, expropriation of vacant homes for public purposes to address urgent housing need should be considered,” she stated.
Farha, who said she travelled to several communities in three major urban centres, including Abuja, Lagos, and Port Harcourt, and met with those living in rural settings as well as internally displaced persons, noted that housing conditions in Nigeria, particularly for those living in poverty, were grossly inadequate.
“I was shocked to see such inhuman and insufferable housing conditions in the 21st century, particularly in an oil-producing country, showing relatively strong economic growth.”
“Economic inequality has reached extreme levels in Nigeria. In July 2019, Oxfam reported that close to 70% of the country’s population lives below the poverty line.
“The Brookings Institute estimates that 87 million people (43% of the population) are living in extreme poverty (1.25 USD/day or less) in Nigeria, with this figure growing by six people every minute.
“In 2014, WHO and UNICEF estimated that 69% of the urban population of Nigeria is living in ‘slums’ (hereinafter, informal settlements), many of which lack even the most basic of services such as potable water, sanitation services, electricity, garbage collection, and paved roads.
“According to the 2013 Nigerian Demographic and Health Survey, 57 million Nigerians lack access to safe water, and over 130 million are without access to adequate sanitation.
“At the same time, Nigeria is the 29th largest economy in the world, just behind Norway and well ahead of countries like Singapore and Malaysia.
“It is considered one of the fastest growing economies in the world, albeit, reliant on the precarious oil market. Between 2004 and 2010, the number of millionaires in the country increased by 44%. It is anticipated that this number will continue to increase.
“This inequality is widely attributed to several factors, including corruption and mismanagement of public funds, and a failure to implement just tax policies, whereby low-income earners pay disproportionately more taxes than do high earning corporations.
“Less than 6 percent of registered corporate taxpayers are active, and only between 15% and 40% of the Value Added Tax is collected.”