Justice C.M.A. Olatoregun of the Federal High Court, Lagos, at the weekend called on the management of AMCON to adopt a new strategy and partner other sister agencies of the government to stop its debtors from contesting elections in the country thereby gaining access to political positions. Justice Olatoregun made the call following President Muhammadu Buhari’s signing into law of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) (Amendment) Act 2019. She spoke at the weekend as chairperson of a one day seminar for external solicitors and asset management partners (AMPs) of AMCON, which was organised by the firm of Legal Academy. According to her, it was now the right time for AMCON to come up with a comprehensive database of its obligors and make such information available to bodies such as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC); the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC); the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC); the Department of State Services (DSS); the Nigerian Police, among other sister agencies of the government, so that AMCON obligors could be stopped from contesting elections or aspiring to leadership positions in the country. She said when election is approaching, lawyers could boldly approach the court and get orders stopping such obligor candidates from seeking votes from Nigerians, thereby helping the Nigerian economy. Lawyers, she noted, needed to understand that the over N5 trillion owed AMCON belonged to all Nigerians, including the lawyers, meaning that recovering the outstanding debt would have huge positive impact on the development of the Nigerian economy. She expressed sadness at the fact that the Nigerian society had continued to allow AMCON debtors and people who could not honour a simple obligation to contest elections and, in most occasions, win and eventually occupy exalted offices in the country. “It is in our constitution that people of questionable characters and criminals should not contest elections, but we are yet to see confident lawyers that can come out and challenge this people beyond reasonable doubt that they are not eligible to stand for elections as a result of their heavy indebtedness,” she pointed out. She also remarked that the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) (Amendment) Act 2019 had literally opened new doors, which smart lawyers could explore to help AMCON and, indeed, Nigeria recover these huge debts. Ahmed Lawan Kuru, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of AMCON, in his opening/welcome remarks lamented the huge outstanding debt of over N5 trillion of the corporation, which would eventually become a burden to the Federal Government if AMCON failed to recover it. He said the interaction was very important to AMCON because, besides being a regular interaction which produces positive result in the quest to recover AMCON’s indebtedness, the seminar was the first since the amendment of the Act by the National Assembly, which has been signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. The AMCON boss said the amended act had provided additional powers to an already strong Act of AMCON. “It was a challenging process, but we owe a debt of gratitude to the National Assembly and indeed President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, for their courage and for putting the issue to rest and making the AMCON (Amendment No. 2) Act, 2019 a thing of the past,” he said. Kuru explained that it was not unusual to periodically amend the law that governs activities of organisations such as AMCON, to deal with obligors that constantly try to avoid, circumvent, and totally deny commitments and obligations. However, the amendment, according to him, could only be effective to the extent that solicitors of AMCON understand the Act and thereafter utilised the far-reaching powers that had been vested in the corporation. He said: “In our experience, even prior to the amendment, not all the provisions of the Act were effectively utilised. From our interaction with the judiciary, some judges are not very impressed with the approach of solicitors to the application of the unique provisions of the AMCON Act. “In some instances, judges have had to direct lawyers to relevant provisions of the Act. It is sad that some lawyers are not at home with the provisions of the Act, particularly the AMCON special powers provided in the law. “The AMCON (Amendment) Act, 2019 is very robust, and we urge you to take advantage of the provisions to safeguard our collective public interest. “That should be taken together with the 2010 Act and the 2015 amendment. It is important that we express our determination to recover the over N5.4 trillion debt giving its implication on the economy. We should not allow a few individuals to escape with our commonwealth. And we want to do it within the confines of the law.” Kuru urged legal practitioners in the country, especially those handling AMCON related cases, to sit up and test the full strength of the amended Act, especially in the face of hard fighting obligors of AMCON, in the overall interest of the economy and development of the country.