Lagos – The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has said that trade volume between Nigeria and UAE has increased from $1.2bn in 2017 to $1.5bn within 24 months. Dr. Fahad Obaid All Taffaq, the UAE Ambassador to Nigeria disclosed this yesterday at the ongoing 16th AKWAABA African Travel Market in Lagos.
Taffaq emphasised that the continued cooperation between the two countries has expanded tremendously over the last few years.
TAffaq said with 25 flights a week from Lagos and Abuja cities operated by Emirates and Etihad Airways, with a competitive flight rate there had been a growing number from both sides.
He said that UAE receives over 200 visitors from Nigeria approximately for tourism purposes regularly, adding that there were over 2,000 Nigerians studying at the UAE universities, while another more than 20,000 Nigerians are with permanent residents in that country.
In the area of trade, the UAE ambassador noted that trade growth with Nigeria came from businesses, small and middle entrepreneurs and tourism.
While applauding the vision of Akwaaba of promoting travel and tourism, the UAE ambassador commended the organisation put together by the Akwaaba team.
“I am impressed with the organization of Akwaaba especially the team.”
He said the event provided a platform to expand the horizon for tourism in Dubai and Nigeria, which meant looking beyond the landmarks.
“looking beyond business as usual, forging partnerships and exploring new attractions and diverse areas like arts, health care, history and fashion for both UAE and Nigeria have a lot to offer those in those sectors,’’ he added.
TAffaq emphasised that the UAE was home for all as over 200 nationalities call Dubai their second home including Nigerians.
According to him, this year, the UAE had announced it to be the year of tolerance where they embrace each other.
“We are glad to be promoting cultural exchange, promoting tolerance and interface dialogue, embracing each other, accepting each other, respecting the diversity of religion, cultural background, race, ethnicity and so on”, he added