Lagos – The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has commended the Federal Government’s efforts at tackling maritime insecurity in the country. OPEC also commended Nigeria for accepting to host the upcoming Global Maritime Security Conference, saying the talks will go a long way in addressing security concerns in the maritime domain of the entire Gulf of Guinea. Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo, Secretary-General of OPEC gave the commendation in a statement at the weekend to the organising committee of the conference. It would be recalled that Dr. Dakuku Peterside , the Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), recently confirmed the participation of over 70 countries at the conference scheduled to be held in Abuja. Barkindo, noted that the Gulf of Guinea was strategic to the stability of oil production globally. He said the area was a major shipping route and any infraction there would be felt beyond the region. “The strategic importance of the Gulf of Guinea is undisputed and any disruption in the area has a direct negative impact on our industry and, indeed, is of global concern. “This conference is timely in bringing together the relevant and critical stakeholders to allow them to discuss in a constructive manner what concerted action could be undertaken to ensure the sustainable use and long term security of this important and strategic body of ocean, “Barkindo said. He noted that the conference would create renewed confidence in investment in the oil and gas sector in the Gulf of Guinea, with a multiplier effect of addressing the challenges associated with the sector globally. Peterside said the conference would provide a platform for stakeholders of all shades to brainstorm and collectively find solutions to the challenge of maritime insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea and assured participants of a successful event in Nigeria. “We shall have a no-holds-barred discussion on security in the Gulf of Guinea at the conference, which promises to be a watershed event in the history of maritime security in Africa and, indeed, the world, ” he said.