As Nigeria celebrates her 59th Independence Anniversary, some sectors of the economy have impacted the economy in one way or the other. However, the telecommunications industry has undoubtedly become the significant contributor to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), after the oil and gas sector. MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR report. Prior to 2001, Nigeria could only boast of about 425,000 phone lines, mostly analogue. The country was then ranked among Afghanistan and other war-ravaged and economically strangled nations in terms of telecom development. Within the past 18 years, the number of active phone lines in the country has risen to over 160 million. Despite being a late entrant into the GSM market, Nigeria has outpaced many countries across the globe in terms of market size and telephone penetration. The first GSM service rolled out in August 2001 following a successful Digital Mobile Licence, DML, auction conducted in January of the same year by the nation’s telecom regulator, the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC. That auction, the first in Africa, was adjudged transparent and world-class by both the World Bank and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). The NCC had placed the asking price for each licence at a conservative $100 million. But at the end of the auction, each licensee paid as high as $285 million. That exercise spurred what is today called ‘telecom revolution’. And it is a revolution when we compare certain indices. Also within the period, over thousands of well-paying career jobs were created with hundreds of thousands of ancillary jobs and countless economies of scale including the sprouting of GSM cum ICT markets across the country. GSM has not only created jobs, it has created wealth and empowered many homes. In 16 years, the telecom industry has grown from a $50 million sector in investments to over $68 billion. Within this period, it has raked into the Federation Account over N15 trillion, birthed a new socio-economic order in the manner Nigerians live and work, ramped up the nation’s profile and stature on the global stage and added new dynamics of transparency in governance, both in the private and public sector. Nitel was one of the largest telecommunications companies in Nigeria. Established in 1985 and fully commercialised in 1992, the company is government owned but in 1996 was split into its terrestrial line (Nitel) and Nitel GSM (MTEL) components so that the two branches could focus on running two very different businesses. But the emergence of GSM rendered the Nitel and Mtel irrelevant. August 2019 made it precisely 18 years since the Global System for Mobile (GSM), genre of communication was introduced into the Nigerian market. GSM debuted in 1982 as a pan-European communication technology and had since spread beyond the frontiers of Europe to other jurisdictions including Africa. Nigeria, therefore, came late to the party. Indeed, it is a statement of fact that telecom is the only sector in the nation’s economic ecosystem which has continued to outperform its equivalent in other jurisdictions including in economies of more advanced nations across the globe. The global stats say so. Nigeria currently ranks among the top five fastest growing telecom markets in the world. It shares the same podium with India, China and other top economies on this. At a time, Nigeria was the fastest growing mobile market in the world; this honour she had for five consecutive years. In a space of 16 years, tele-density has grown from less than 1% to an overwhelming 108%. Contribution to GDP has surged over time to nearly 10%. Nigeria telecom has bolted from the stacks of inertia unlike other sectors. In a season of recession which made other sectors of the economy to slide and steep, telecom bucked the trend. It remained resolute and resilient against centrifugal headwinds. It is a huge positive for the President Muhammadu Buhari government that at a time the national economy dipped south, telecom stayed up north with pleasant ensigns of a beautiful tomorrow. Besides, it has remained attractive for investors. Many reasons account for this: Largest population (market) in Africa, growing middle class (workforce) of 23% of population, 37% youth population within the age bracket of 15-35 years, a vast field for broadband services opportunity, growing e-commerce, e-banking, etcetera and a lifestyle that encourages communication (both voice and data); there is still more room for investors. The International Telecommunications Union (ITU), the UN body in charge of telecom, has consistently attributed the success in Nigeria telecom to regulatory excellence. The ITU has severally made reference to Nigeria as a model for other nations. The lesson in this narrative is that the solution to our various challenges as a nation can be found within us. All the regulators who have kept Nigeria telecom at the cutting edge are Nigerians, not foreigners or expatriates as we prefer to address them. From Ernest Ndukwe to Dr. Eugene Juwah and now Professor Umar Danbatta, these men, all engineers, have proven that there is strength and excellence in local content. The incumbent EVC of the Commission, Professor Umar Danbatta, has not only continued in the tradition of regulatory excellence, he has so far demonstrated that the NCC is willing and ready to position Nigerian telecom as the undisputed enabler of productivity for other sectors. The Nigerian GSM story is a fitting illustration of our ability to govern and govern well; it indexes a nation’s resolve to stay up against a mountain of odds. As we mark 16 years of GSM, it is also apposite to commend the likes of Econet Wireless (now Airtel), MTN, Globacom (the unabashedly pan-Nigerian network with global reach) and Etisalat (now 9Mobile). These entities invested in the Nigerian telecom market at a time global investors’ confidence in the market was almost zero. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Deolu Ogunbanjo, President of National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers (NATCOMS), said the telecoms industry in Nigeria has grown significantly. According to him, “Despite some recurring challenges the industry has been facing, it has made a significant achievement since 2001. If you look at the area of financial transactions, security, and any other sector of the economy you can think of, telecoms services have made them to thrive. “However, the fact is that we still have room for improvement. And we can record more growth in the industry if all the stakeholders cooperate. The government needs to address the issue of multiple taxation and security of the telecoms infrastructure. Also of concern is over regulation. All these impede the inflow of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) into the country as some of the operators; especially the foreign ones will limit their capital investment and reinvestment. It has been wonderful. But the subscribers need to get more. Over the years, the subscribers have been loyal of the years and there should be a payback for them. In the area of Quality of Service (QoS), Ogunbanjo said the operators should do more to address the issue, as it is an act of shortchange for the subscribers. In recent years, attempts by the operators to hike their data tariffs had been met with stiff opposition. It is still believed that their current data rates are on the high side. Also speaking on the development, Dr. Yele Okeremi, resident, Institute of Software ractioners of Nigeria (ISON)00000 said the country has underperformed in ICT sector, as it has the opportunities to achieve far more than what is obtained today. According to him, I am not impressed about the successes recorded so far. If you look at UAE for instance, a lot has been brought about through ICT in that region. But unfortunately, we are not doing what they are doing to achieve the great success that have. In Brazil today, their agricultural sector is technology driven. Rwanda is no exception. In Nigeria, we are still grappling with the issues of insecurity, food scarcity among others which ICT could have significantly addressed. The forward in the sector is to have leaders who have a knack for the economic advancement and technical knowhow. Otherwise, I am afraid; we will continue to trail those who souse to look u to us. On his part, Olusola Teniola, resident of Association of Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ATCON) commended the successes recorded so far in the industry. According to him, “Yes, I’m glad you said today. We are repository of the past. What do I mean by that? We have benefited greatly from an explosion in the mobile telephony space. We now have an industry that you could argue in terms of teledensity, is way above of 100 per cent, some could argue is 120 per cent. But anything above 100 per cent connotes maturity. And maturity has certain behaviour that will happen, that is, customers switching from one operator to another or decongestion of the networks. One of the things that we’ve really recognised is the changes in consumer behaviour. “One of those changes could be noticed during the recent recession which we just came out of. During that period, some consumers lost their jobs. That means they had less money to feed their families. So naturally, a family that was dependent on using voice and spending a certain amount will review their spending pattern and look for alternative platforms. And those, as you know, are the OTTs, over the top applications. “Those over the top applications ride on infrastructure, that’s the normal modus operandi, which means that past infrastructure that was built to support the growth in voice telephoning is now under stress, because it hasn’t been upgraded, or hasn’t been increased in terms of capacity to manage the explosion in data. “But data is here to stay. In fact, the transition is from voice to data, because as you know, Skype was one of the first applications to demonstrate that you could make a voice call over Internet Protocol IP. Vocal Tech actually made the first commercial call in 1995, that is, Voice over IP and that was the disruption. So, we may have ignored it in the past because when our market was liberalised, we actually adopted technology that had been built before Vocal Tech came into the main domain. So, we adopted GSM and CDMA, which are 1982 technology. We never knew the time and speed at which over the top publications will come to become relevance in our space. Whereas in other jurisdictions, they have much more time to be prepare for this disruption. ” The telecommunications industry in Nigeria is one that can currently be described as self-aware and steadily adapting to the stark realities of business – changing trends, intense rivalry, regulatory uncertainties etc. There is a general understanding that to remain sustainable in the current industry, there is a need to recreate existing products, diversify into new areas for which the capabilities and resources are near, improve on general business processes and navigate through the regulatory landscape. Telcos are currently collaborating with different industries, acting as conduits (and creating new revenue streams) to reach out to potential customers. These industries understand that Telcos have a direct and unavoidable access to a huge customer base and own the network infrastructure to conclude a commercial dialogue. For instance, Telcos are enabling banks and insurance companies sell financial packages to hitherto ‘invisible customers’. Using data analytics, Telcos can unearth ‘invisible customers’, promote solutions and ensure a sale is made. Before the turn of the 21st century, most money transfers from the urban or suburban areas to the rural areas was largely manual. Transferors generally used messengers to physically deliver cash to recipients in the rural areas with the hope of ‘privacy and security of the transaction’ – a hope that was often dashed. Enter the 21st century, and there was an explosion of bank branches and consequent surge of new account holders – a scenario that did not overcome this challenge. In conjunction with the banks, Telcos are able to provide a solution that allows a user execute a money transfer using a personal identification number and secured text message. At the end of the text message is the recipient who can reach out to the corresponding bank to get the transferred money. Whilst the fee earned from this transaction represents increased income in the bank’s primary business, the fees earned by the Telcos represent income from a new line of business. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the National InterBank Settlement System (NIBSS) representatives of Commercial Banks of Nigeria and experts on Financials and Banking from the African Continent converged last year to discuss a matter of topical importance with a thematic focus on: “Innovative Financial Services for the Vast Unserved Segments.” The event was filled with insightful and in-depth presentations on what Financial Inclusion is and, its importance to the social-economic development of Nigeria. Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, while delivering the keynote address through Bashir Idris, Deputy Director, Policy, Competition & Economic Analysis of the Commission, argued that NCC’s commitment towards financial inclusion is evident through the participation and collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and major relevant stakeholders. “One of the major driving force of the Commission is to provide Universal Access, especially to the underserved and unserved parts of the country. Invariably, this has a link with the overall objective of the National Financial Inclusion Policy,” Danbatta re-emphasised. The NCC Boss disclosed that NCC, being the telecoms regulator, is mandated to ensure the provision of infrastructure that will enable the flow of other services. In cognisance of the importance of Financial Inclusion, the NCC has established a Desk in the Policy, competition & Economic Analysis (PCEA) Department to anchor and interface with the CBN and other stakeholders in the digital financial ecosystem. Also realising the importance of Broadband as an indispensable resource for the actualisation of Financial Inclusion and the digitization of the socio-economy of Nigeria, the NCC is Licensing 7 Infracos to provide Broadband penetration for accessibility at affordable rates. So far 5 Infracos have been licensed. This and other support services provided by the Universal Service Provision Fund Department of NCC (USPF) to unserved and underserved areas will help close the Communication gaps in existence. Prof. Danbatta reiterated the Commission’s stand and quest for a robust infrastructure that will continue to support innovative technologies/ services that will enhance the pursuit of excellence and development in all sectors of the Nigerian economy.