Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh is the Deputy Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly and he represents Apapa Constituency 2. In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, he spoke about the recent constituency stakeholders’ meeting organised by the House where all the 40 members met with their constituents to discuss the environmental challenges confronting the state. He explained that much advocacy is required to enlighten the residents on why they must desist from indiscriminate disposal of refuse. Excerpts: The House recently organised a Constituency Stakeholders’ Meeting on environment challenges confronting the state, how did the stakeholders meeting go in your constituency? It was very engaging and richly rewarding. Though the theme of the discourse was on environmental issues but it went beyond that, it covered the roads network. My constituents requested for schools, a befitting healthcare centre among many other things. But the one that struck the residents the most was abandoned projects of the World Bank since 2008. About five roads were abandoned by the World Bank since 2008 till present. I think there roads are more of priority to the people of my constituency from what I can infer from our dialogue at the town hall meeting. Though budgets have been made by the Lagos state government for these projects from 2014 till 2017, but despite that, the projects have not been completed and the people are asking questions if we are taking them serious at all, which is a fundamental thing the state must respond to. Though it is a World Bank project but the World Bank doesn’t live with us. We have argued the case; the state has shouldered the responsibility of taking it and putting it in the budget so that it would be taken care of by the state but up till now, nothing has been done. And this adds more hardship to the people, so we are more concerned about that. We discussed the environmental issue but it really did not appeal to the sensibility of the entire populace, having abandoned projects since 2008, the people see us as telling them stories every year, that the project is in the budget and it will be taken care of. Are there fathomable reasons the World Bank left the project uncompleted? Well, for the World Bank, I don’t have belief in them and I am talking as Honourable Olumuyiwa Jimoh. I don’t believe it is outsiders that will come and develop my country for me. All the interjections of the World Bank that I have known, they have not completed any serious issues. It is either they claim that what was budgeted for has been exhausted or they claim that the value of dollar as of when the approval was taken is higher than what they are experiencing; it has always been their excuses. It has been like that since 1990 that they promised us development. We always assume that the World Bank is Father Christmas, they are not a philanthropic organisation, so we must not pretend, we must decide to develop our country by ourselves. So I don’t have that belief that it is the World Bank that will help us to do it. Even if they do the interjections, build four, five, six roads, what does it amount to compared to the number of roads that we need. Let us put them aside, I don’t celebrate outsiders ganging up on our behalf to come and develop our home, that has been my ideological perception about this and it has not changed. You said the state has continued to budget for these uncompleted projects since 2014 up till 2017 and still the projects remained uncompleted. Why has the House not probed this? We argued that since the World Bank has abandoned the project, the state should shoulder the projects, so since 2014 they have always been repeating it in the budget but nothing has been done but the people in the community want it done; that is the language they understand. But the issue has always been, when it gets to the two-third of the year, they move some finances to other places under re-ordering and this project has always been part of the items affected by these re-orderings. So that is just the problem but this time around, we want to follow it to a logical conclusion. Since our governor is a new governor and he is a listening governor, we have been telling him and we believe that the 2020 budget will soon be brought before the House and we believe this will be taken care of. We will continue telling them until they listen to us. I am aware too as the representatives of the people that there are so many things to be attended to by the state but 2008 till date is not a small year in the life of an individual even in the life of a community. Your constituency is peculiar when it comes to issue of the environment, do you see the just concluded constituency stakeholders’ meeting yielding a result in terms of achieving a cleaner environment? It is a symbiotic relationship; it is an avenue for us to educate the people on why they must not be dumping refuse in the drains and in the entire Apapa-Iganmu geographical area, we are round-up by System 5 finally to lagoon. So we used it as an opportunity to educate the people that they can generate diseases like cholera and so on. We also urged the government to come in and help in desilting the entire drains but also with strong note of warning to the entire habitants of the community that the canal is not a refuse dump site and that is one lesson that I saw that the people took away from the stakeholders’ meeting. There have been constant enlightenments concerning the environment and these days, you even see motorists throwing trashes out from their vehicles. Is there anything the House can do to curb these excesses? What we can do is advocacy, go to our various constituencies the way we do community engagement and tell our people that it is wrong. It is also important to call on the law enforcement agencies to be upright in their duty of call as this will go a long way. Any offender caught should be prosecuted and this will serve as a deterrent to intending offenders, because people are not being punished, they assumed it is a normal thing. So it is important for us to start the advocacy and it should not be left to the lawmakers and law enforcers alone, it should be the responsibility of every Lagosian to be involved in this advocacy in order to get a good result. It will be nonsensical after eating a mango or an orange and I decide to throw the waste throw the window of my car. It doesn’t sound well, we travel abroad and when you throw something out of a bus, the owner of the bus will be penalised, and that citizen will also be dealt with but here, we just believe anything goes. It is just like a matter of people crossing the highways too, after seeing that there is a pedestrian bridge that is empty, but despite they feel like committing suicide by crossing the expressway. Even when they see that the oncoming vehicle is on a top speed, they still want to go in a hurry. It is very terrible, we need to change our orientation and perception about life. And I think it is our social value which has collapsed that is accountable for all these.