GUSAU – Stakeholders have continued to show their unflinching support for the administration of Governor Bello Muhammed Matawalle that was able to recover the long dominated peace in Zamfara state. The governor who took over the reins of power from immediate past governor, Abdulaziz Yari came to the throne on the platform of the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) in May 29th this year has shown that there is no problem that cannot be tackled by any serious leader who has the interest of his citizens especially the downtrodden in his mind. It is however not surprising to note that Matawalle was the chairman, House committee on public safety and security in the Federal House of Representatives where he performed very excellently in the security sector. It could be recalled that during his electioneering campaign, he vowed to end the security challenges within his first hundred days in office, a promise he is working assiduously to fulfil. . While fielding questions from newsmen in Gusau the state capital, the governor noted that he penciled security challenges as his the number one priority since no society can develop and progress without security. He explained that without settling the security problems, he would not have the chance to deliver the dividends of democracy which he said he has promised his people if he was elected in to office as the Fourth executive governor of the state. It is however on record that the insecurity situation in the state did not start from the tenure of the present governor but dated back to the year 2011 when the immediate past governor Abdulaziz Yari took over power from Alhaji Mahmuda Aliyu Shinkafi through the ballot box. Since then Zamfara state citizens have been grappling with security challenges which analysts and observers said that the number of innocent people that were being killed in Zamfara state outnumbered the people being killed in the whole of the Northeast geo political zone of the country. Even though the former governor Abdulaziz Yari claimed that over N10 billion was lavished on the security agencies but there was no clear achievement by the security operatives even when the former governor was the chief security officer of the state. It was however noted that when the going became very tough former governor Abdulaziz Yari publicly told the whole world that he had ceased to be the number one security officer of the state which attracted controversy and public concerns across the globe. Various security committees were constituted by the governor holding various meetings on daily bases but all to no avail because both the governor and his teams have no technical experience on security to handle the dastard acts bedeviling the Shari’a state. This ugly development did not occur during the tenure of Senator Ahmad Sani Yarima who was the first executive governor of the state neither did it occur during the tenure of Alhaji Mahmuda Aliyu Shinkafi who was the second executive governor of the state. However, security experts and analysts were optimistic to assume that the terror attacks and various degrees of insecurity could not have been unconnected to the massive retrenchment of civil servants in the state especially the youths thereby preventing them from fending for their families hence terror attacks and notorious kidnappings emanated into the state as the aggrieved youths have no other means of livelihood, roaming the streets aimlessly begging for alms. It was on record that during the unfortunate administration of former governor Abdulaziz Yari, there were countless centers across the state housing internally displaced persons (IDP) yet until the former governor left office in May 2019, the administration did not accept the fact that there were internally displaced persons camp in the state. Even though the government of Yari committed a lot of the state resources to ensure the elimination of terror attacks and notorious kidnappings in the state but security experts have not come to a reasonable conclusion that the government tried its best as some security experts believed that the government didn’t apply technical methods to tackle the teething issue of security in the state. They believed that retrenching especially the youths in any society would escalate security challenges anywhere in the world. Abdulaziz Yari no doubt has received a lot of attacks from in and out of the state with many people pointing accusing fingers on his government as the possible promoters of the deadly activities which many critics of his government are now calling on the former governor to keep quiet and bury his face in a deep shame as he could not address in issue of security challenges which they said started in his own unfortunate administration. The government and security chiefs were at log ahead over the roots of the security challenges while the government was blaming the security operatives for not performing as expected, the former minister of Defense, Alhaji Mansur Dan Ali who also is an indigene of the state was busy blaming the traditional leaders for sponsoring the terror attacks and notorious kidnappings for their own selfish interest even though he could not mention any name but he was very optimistic that if the traditional leaders remove their hands from the dastard acts, there would peace in the state. The terror attacks and notorious kidnappings brought the APC government to the lowest ebb and now PDP has clearly taken over the whole state as farmers can go to their farms without any iota of fear of being attacked or kidnapped. When Honourable Bello Muhammed Matawalle who is now popularly known as security Messiah in the state assumed office on 29th May 2019 his first appointment was Special Adviser on security issues in person of Abubakar Daura who retired as a senior police officer. Again he made the former inspector General of police, Mr.Mohammed Dahiru Gusau the chairman of one of the committees while the state commissioner of police is currently chairing another committee on the same security issues. Governor Matawalle began by investigating the traditional leaders following ugly reports from the citizens claiming that some traditional leaders were involved in armed banditry. The governor quickly dethroned the Emir of Maru and the district head of Kanoma district, all in the same Emirate. He however warned the traditional leaders that any emirate where terror attacks and notorious kidnappings was recorded, the emir and the district head where the ugly incident happen must be dethroned and possibly be prosecuted. There is no doubt that the governor has subsided insecurity situation in the state following the techniques he applied to deal with the disturbing issue as every thing has returned to normalcy in the first state to introduce Shari’a in the country. It could be recalled that the governor designed peace accord and reconciliation process with the armed bandits and notorious kidnappers which yielded positive and beneficial results and helped his administration to score political points against the government of Abdulaziz Yari which did not score any political point as far as security issue is concerned. Granting interview to newsmen at the state Government House in Gusau, the governor gave reason why he embraced peace accord and reconciliation process, pointing out that it is the only peaceful way to solve security challenges. He noted that if he had engaged them on fire for fire operation, many lives would have been lost in the process, saying that the armed Fulani men were aggrieved set of people in the society because they felt that they were neglected segment in the society as they felt cheated. Matawalle therefore began to construct schools, hospitals and grazing ground for the Fulani people which made them to start surrendering their arms and ammunition to constituted authorities in the state. It could therefore be advisable if other Northern Governors can emulate the winning techniques of governor Matawalle, there would be relative peace in whole of the northern states of Nigeria.