LAGOS – Come the next FIFA window in October, the Coach Gernot Rohr-led Super Eagles will have their hands full as they will engage five-time World Champions, the Seleção of Brazil. The match comes up on October 13 in Singapore. But the match is coming against the backdrop of an earlier request from Rohr that the Super Eagles engage another top side, precisely an African opposition, before the commencement of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers in November. “Now it’s time to focus on the AFCON qualifiers. The game against Ukraine has gone and the boys did very well in my opinion. “Next month we have two possible windows and I think it will be good for us to have an African opponent because of the qualifiers in November.” Meanwhile, a release from the Brazil Football Confederation said that the Samba Boys picked Nigeria because they remained among the top two ranked side in the continent and also because of their physicality. The release, DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered, went further to say that the five-time World champions would earlier play the Terranga Lions of Senegal before facing the Super Eagles three days later. In the last meeting between both sides at the Abuja National Stadium, the South Americans pummeled Nigeria 3-0. Meanwhile, Nigeria will face Benin Republic, Sierra Leone and Lesotho in the qualifiers for the 2021 AFCON. After hosting the Squirrels of Benin Republic on November 14, they will fly to Maseru for a Day Two encounter with the Crocodiles of Lesotho on November 19. The 2019 African Freestyle Football Championship ended on a high note, with defending champion, Abdul Titi Kone of Cote d’Ivoire emerging as the African Champion once again. This event marked the 2nd edition of the African Championship and the 3rd annual edition of the Nigerian Championship hosted by Feet ‘n’ Tricks International. The final was a re-do of the 2018 championship, as Kone again defeated Egypt’s Yousef Mohamad in a head-to-head repeat of last year’s final, while Ashley Mhkize of South Africa placed third. In the female category, Evelyn Okafor (Nigeria), Hadhara Charles (Tanzania) and Augustina Unamba (Nigeria) placed first, second and third respectively. Speaking on his achievement, Kone said: “This is a great honour. I am thankful to Feet ‘n’ Tricks for this incredible platform and opportunity, I look forward to using it to inspire others and make Africa proud.” Mhkize, who emerged as the winner of the Panna Football Championship, thanked the organisers and said it would help him hone his skills and become a better individual. “Since its inception in 2017, we have been committed to becoming world-class organisers of Fr