YENAGOA – The build-up to the Bayelsa State governorship election scheduled for November 16 is on. According to political observers, it is now very clear that the governorship poll will be a two-horse race between the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the centre of in Abuja. But, the pertinent question on the lips of the people and even political observers is: which of the two parties will win the governorship election? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Interestingly, both the PDP and the APC have so far conducted the screening of their aspirants who duly picked forms and submitted same for the political contest. While the PDP is parading 21 aspirants, the APC has a sizable number of six aspirants. Aggregately, there are 27 sons and daughters of Bayelsa battling to succeed the incumbent Governor Seriake Dickson of the PDP whose tenure will end on February 14, 2020. Investigation shows it is the first time since the 23-year-old state was carved out of the old Rivers State on October 1, 1996 that such a huge number of persons would vie for the office of governor at the Creek Haven Government House, Yenagoa. Regardless, the 21 PDP aspirants cleared to slug it out for the party’s governorship ticket at its primaries on September 3 are Ndutimi Alaibe; Benson Agadaga; Frederick Agbedi; Reuben Okoya; Senator Douye Diri; Talford Ongolo; Keniebi Okoko and Franklin Osaisai; David Alagoa; Igiri Ziperedein; Joshua Maciver; Kemela Okara; Gboribiogha Jonah; Benson Konbowei; Godknows Igali; Johnson Kiyaramo; Paulker Emmanuel; Tariela Oliver; Anthony George-Ikoli, Robinson Etolor and Nimibofa Ayawei. In the APC are Senator Heineken Lokpobiri; Ebitimi Amgbare; Frankland Briyai; David Lyon; Preye Aganaba and Diseye Poweigha. The two dominant parties in the state have one female aspirant each in the persons of Tariela Oliver and Diseye Poweigha,who is a retired Commissioner of Police. However, the PDP and the APC are contending with internal controversies that had plagued their internal democracy. While the PDP had held its ward and local government congresses in the state to elect the ad hoc delegates who would elect the party’s flag bearer at the primaries, the APC, on the hand is till enmeshed in a legal tussle over whether or not direct primary method should used to conduct the governorship primaries in the state. Only on August 28, few days after the PDP conducted its controversial delegates’ poll, a Bayelsa State High Court sitting in Sagbama ordered the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC to halt its plan to adopt the direct primary method. Reports had it that some aggrieved members of the APC in Bayelsa, including, Japan Christopher, Evinson Oyindeyinfa, Oddu Ovinmiebi and Obiriki Isaiah, who are applicants in the case, approached the state High Court sitting in Sagbama seeking a restraining order to stop the APC NWC from adopting direct primary mode. Listed as first respondents are Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of APC, and members of the NWC, governorship aspirants and leaders of the party in Bayelsa. Also listed as respondents are the state chairman of the party, Jothan Amos and members of the State Working Committee (SWC). The applicants had sued for themselves and also on behalf of concerned members of APC in Bayelsa. They prayed the court for an order “abridging the time for which the respondents may enter appearance and file their respective counter affidavits and written addresses to the originating summons within seven days, given the time sensitive nature of the suit.” They also requested the court to grant “an interim injunction restraining the first respondents from adopting the direct primaries procedure for the conduct of the party’s primary election for the 2019 Bayelsa State governorship election pending the hearing and determination of the originating summons.” The presiding judge, Justice E. G Umukoro, while granting the order in its entirety, ordered that the enrolled order of the court be served along with hearing notice to the respondents within 48 hours. Amidst the legal hurdle, the APC NWC announced that it had shifted the date for the Bayelsa governorship primary from Thursday, August 29 to Saturday, August 31, 2019. The party has also adopted the direct mode of primary which, according to them, was in line with the written request of the Bayelsa State chapter and majority of the stakeholders. However, controversy had continued to trail the PDP congresses which were dominated by the Restoration Caucus led by Dickson. The Restoration Team reportedly ‘captured’ an overwhelming number of the 1,400 delegates expected to participate in the governorship primaries. However, one of the 21 aspirants and a former Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Timi Alaibe, had not taken kindly to the outcomes of the congresses. He felt cheated. He also argued that the exercises were untidy. The former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) accused the national panel of the PDP chaired by the Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, of acting a script, though the governor and members of his team had the day before the exercise commenced assured all aspirants of a level playing ground. Alaibe, who does not belong to Dickson’s Restoration Caucus in the PDP, specifically faulted the unilateral inclusion of certain names on the list of returning and electoral officers for the party’s ward congresses. According to him, the inclusion of such names on the list was contrary to the PDP constitution and guidelines for the conduct of a peaceful primary. Objecting to the anomaly in a statement he personally signed,  Alaibe stated that “the names have been inserted to put certain aspirants, especially those of the Restoration Group, at advantage.” The Kolokuma-Opokuma-born politician insisted that the plot was a deliberate calculation to create confusion and frustrate his aspiration to lead Bayelsa State, stressing that “this is a mere imagination.” Alaibe contended that the method that was making the party’s primary in Kogi State a smooth and rancour-free exercise while it was being thwarted in Bayelsa State “for very narrow and selfish interest.” “They have failed this time around because no degree of intrigues, no amount of manipulation and propaganda can push me out of this race. “Nothing will change my decision to lift the lot of our people through purposeful leadership. I am here to stay and together we will win”, Alaibe stated. He posited that the irreducible minimum was for the aspirants to be provided a level-playing field to test their acceptability among the delegates to the governorship primary election. He went ahead to petition the national leadership of the PDP to address the ‘injustice’ meted to him and other aspirants outside the Restoration Team. Prior to the PDP’s delegates’ election, Dickson had ensured the conduct of local government council poll on August 10 which, many believed, was primed to give his Restoration Caucus advantage in the ad hoc delegates’ elections. In addition, he also heightened the intrigues and tension within the party that characterised the poll by vowing, without batting an eyelid, that he would not support any governorship aspirant who emerges outside his Restoration Caucus. The governor declared that the leadership of the Restoration Caucus, which he heads, would decided on an aspirant to support in the primaries before September 3. Perhaps, to actualise his agenda, Dickson constituted what he termed the Restoration Governorship Primary Election Committee. In fact, it was while he was inaugurating the committee at Government House on August 19, a week to the commencement of the congresses, that he made the declaration. Although many are accusing Dickson of behaving as if he is seeking another term in office, he stated at the event that supporting any aspirant of the PDP outside the restoration group was one heavy moral burden that he was not prepared to carry. He stressed that his upbringing and values, which place emphasis on the reward for the sacrifice of loyalty and steadfastness, would not allow him to turn his back on those who stood by him throughout his years as leader of the party. Dickson also hinged his decision to support a Restoration aspirant on the imperative of continuity, effective service delivery, and commitment of Restoration caucus to the socio economic growth of the state. He dismissed those accusing him of refusal to support some aspirants, insisting that it was his right to decide who to back in the party’s primaries. He also urged the members of the party to ignore what he termed rumour masterminded by some political interests that the newly-elected party chairmen and councillors were not qualified to be delegates in the election. He also argued that there was no law in the PDP that prevents elected local government officials from becoming delegates in the primaries. Dickson said, “There are people who fought to stop our chairmen and councilors from participating in the last election and they failed. The propaganda out there is that our elected chairmen and councilors are not going to participate as delegates in the election. “Let me make it clear that no one by the rule of this party will prevent elected council  officials from voting as delegates. No one will stop them from entering the venue to vote for a candidate of their choice. “We have  agreed to elect a candidate for our party from the Restoration team. I will fail in my responsibilities  and values if I abandon those who have supported me, who have been through thick and thin with me. “The way I was brought up, it is support for support and loyalty for loyalty. You have to be on board on this for the Restoration Team. My support will go to a loyal, committed member of the Restoration team. Not to do so will leave a very heavy moral burden in my heart which I am not prepared to bear.” The governor stressed that he was not a bystander in the process to elect his own successor but a key stakeholder to support any candidate of his choice for the collective good of the state. He charged the party members not to succumb to  propaganda and blackmail calculated to sow seeds of discord within the party. He noted that, the newly-inaugurated committee’s mandate involved the mobilization of the delegates both at the ward and local government headquarters for the task ahead. Dickson said that the supporters and key players of the Restoration Team which recorded a resounding electoral victory over the opposition in the council election were intact. He urged the people to be resolute in their support for the leadership of the Restoration Team even in the face of glaring blackmail by some persons with the intent to rubbish them. Checks indicated that only Alaibe appears to be the only aspirant outside Dickson’s Restoration Caucus that is complaining about the conduct and outcomes of the PDP’s congresses. A majority of the aspirants on the party’s platform, few days after Alaibe raised the alarm over manipulation of the internal polls, opposed what they termed moves orchestrated by “some politicians” to rubbish the national delegates’ election that followed the ward congresses. They disagreed with Alaibe for petitioning the PDP’s national headquarters to query the outcome of the congresses. The aspirants in a statement by the immediate past Chief of Staff to the Governor, Talford Ongolo, insisted that only four out of the 21 aspirants initially agreed to be part of the petition against the exercise. According to him, one of the aspirants, Senator Emmanuel Paulker, who initially agreed to sign the petition, pulled out thereby bringing the number of purportedly aggrieved aspirants to only three. He said the bulk of the aspirants hold the view in a meeting at the Government House that it was unnecessary to write a petition against a process that was transparently carried out. Ongolo said, “Our aspirants took their turns to speak vehemently against writing any petition to taint a process which they all agreed was transparent, credible free and fair. “They acknowledged the fact that the party even allowed all aspirants to access the panel sent by the national leadership of the party a day before the congress.” But in all of these, political pundits are of the opinion that Dickson, by insisting that his political camp should produce the governorship candidate of the PDP as against the collective decision of all blocs to come up with a consensus candidate, was fighting the collective interest of the party. There are fears that if he pushes his interest too deep, he could injure other vested state and national interests and this might tear the symbolic umbrella of the party into shreds. On the part of the APC, the appointment and subsequent swearing-in of former Governor Timipre Sylva, leader of the party in the state, as Minister of State for Petroleum by President Muhammadu Buhari, had altered the dynamics in the party ahead of the primaries. There were indications that he would throw his hat into the ring like he did in 2015 and secure the party’s governorship ticket before Buhari picked him. But, what had depended the intrigues in APC was the sudden entry into the race by one David Lyon, who is said to be a major player in the oil and gas industry. Besides, party sources claimed that Lyon, who came into the contest shortly Sylva was sworn in, is the Minister’s anointed choice for the APC. Of course, this, according to party sources, has unsettled other aspirants of the party, including the immediate past Minister of State for Agriculture Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, who, until Lyon’s emergence, was believed to the biggest fish among the aspirants. Nevertheless, the consensus among analysts is that both the PDP and the APC would be relying on their political strengths to win the governorship election. In this regard, Dickson had been boasting that the PDP, which had been controlling the politics of Bayelsa has all it takes to defeat the APC at the polls. He stated at a recent media chat that if he did not win the 2015 governorship elections for a second term in office, even in the face of stiff opposition and federal might unleashed by the APC, the PDP in Bayelsa would have been dead by now. The governor had stretched this chest-beating further by saying that he could single-handedly floor the APC because he had done it before, cautioning the APC that election was a test of popularity and acceptance among the people and not a war. But, the APC’s chances in the governorship contest with the PDP are believed to be boosted by its electoral victories in the 2019 general elections in the state. The party won a seat in the Senate for Bayelsa East by Degi Eremienyo; two seats in the House of Representatives by Israel Sunny-Goli and Preye Oseke for Brass and Southern Ijaw federal constituencies, respectively. The party also increased its presence in the 24-member state House of Assembly from the one seat it won in 2015 by Goli to four seats in the 2019 general elections. A chieftain of the APC, who did not want his name to be mentioned, said, “So how can Governor Dickson be boasting that the PDP will carry the day in the governorship election? He has forgotten that our party won three National Assembly seats and four state House of Assembly seats under his tenure. “Before now, it was PDP all the way but we are making in-roads into the politics of Bayelsa, especially with the last elections. It should be very clear to Governor Dickson and his party by now that the APC is now ready and prepared, more than ever before, to take over Bayelsa from the PDP.” However, Fred Agbedi, one of the 21 PDP aspirants and current member of the House of Representatives representing Sagbama/Ekeremor federal constituency, during a recent media interaction at the NUJ Press Centre in Yenagoa, said that the PDP was united and strong in its determination to retain control of politics in Bayelsa by defeating the APC in the governorship race. “The APC must be defeated in the election and that’s what we are prepared for,”Agbedi, a former state PDP chairman and two-time Director-General of the Dickson Campaign Organisation, said.