ADO-EKITI – Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has lamented that the outlawed tax policy of the immediate past administration of Ayo Fayose adversely affected school enrolment in in the state. Speaking at the Holy Trinity Primary School in Ilawe Ekiti on Monday while flagging off enrolment of pupils for 2019/2020 academic session, Fayemi said that the prompt payment of counterpart funding had changed the narrative. The governor said in view of the fact that Ekiti ranked last among the six Southwest states in school enrolment in 20118, propelled him to make several interventions in the education sector. “Ekiti was leading before I left in 2014 in school enrolment, but our enrolment has dropped drastically. Introduction of education tax and other anti-people policies introduced by the immediate past government have seriously eroded our gains in the education sector. “We introduced many policies to boost school enrolment in our first term and we had 96 percent being the highest in the country and Southwest region. “Upon assumption of office last year October, we immediately outlawed the payment of tax in public and private schools. We also paid a sum of N4.5billion as 2016, 2017 and 2018 counterpart funds to UBEC, embark on rehabilitation of infrastructure, provision of furniture and instructional materials, introduce school feeding programme, payment of salary to teachers, among others as part of the ways to increase school enrolment and retain other gains in education sector,” he stated. He said the state government has invested N4.5 billion to shore up school enrolment in the last 11 months he returned as the Ekiti State Chief executive. Fayemi lamented that Ekiti , which was ranked first in school enrolment ladder, had slumped due to the N1000 per term tax policy introduced by the administration of Mr. Ayodele Fayose. He said the education policy forced some poor parents to keep their children of school age at home, thereby increasing the number of out of school children in Ekiti.