ABEOKUTA – Oba Joel Ademola, the Ooye of Iwoye Ketu, a border community in Ogun State, Monday, alleged looming fuel scarcity following partial closure of the border by the Federal Government. He alleged that a litre of fpetrol now sells for N350 at the border communities. Oba Alaye, who blamed security operatives for their overzealousness, said fuel tankers are not allowed to reach Iwoye-Ketu, Idofa, Ilara, Oke Agbede, Moriwi and Wasinmi Okuta, all border communities thereby creating hardship for the residents. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The monarch, who noted that the development had compounded woes of the residents, who were still battling with the issue of tomatoes, yam and other perishable goods reportedly seized by the task force last week. He, however, called on the Federal Government to quickly intervene in the issue of scarcity of fuel in order to allow his people do legitimate business. “My attention has been drawn to a statement credited to President Muhammadu Buhari while responding to his Republic of Benin counterpart request that partial closure of land borders was due to the smuggling of rice into the country. “With the statement, how come the joint security task force now creates hardship for the people of Iwoye-Ketu, Idofa, Ilara, Oke Agbede, Moriwi and Wasinmi Okuta by not allowing fuel tanker to reach these communities. “As at today, a litre of petrol is now N350 per litre due to the overzealousness of the task force creating unwarranted hardship for my people. “I am now appealing to the Federal Government to quickly intervene in the issue of scarcity of fuel because we are all Nigerians doing a legitimate business. The constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria didn’t say that people living at the border areas should not live in good condition. “Most of us are predominantly farmers who can’t afford N350 per litre of fuel. For the past three weeks, we have battling with the issue of tomatoes, yam and other perishable goods but now the issue of artificial scarcity of fuel is biting harder and my community can’t fold our arms, the government must find urgent solution.” The Monarch also called on Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State to urgently fix deplorable road conditions in his community adding that the government is loosing a lot of revenue to the bad roads. When contacted the Operations Controller of the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Abeokuta Field Office, Mrs Muinat Bello-Zagi, promised to investigate the allegations and take appropriate action.