The quick intervention of Policemen attached to the Iyana-oworo Police Division led by the Divisional Police Officer, Superintendent of Police, SP, Nkereuwem Joshua, saved an 80-year – old woman from being set ablaze by a mob for allegedly transforming from a bird to human. The mob alleged that two birds fell from the sky, one was killed and set on fire but one suddenly transformed into a human which attracted a large crowd to the Ajuola street junction of Meyaki road in Iyana-oworo area of Lagos state. Dependable source told Daily Independent that two big birds fell from the sky and landed in front of a shop at Ajaola Street, and resident of the area on hearing the news went to have a glimpse of the huge size of the birds. It was gathered that one of the birds was killed and was set ablaze while the second one turned to human. Our source said news of the incident spread like wild fire as thousands of people were attracted to the scene and the woman was subjected to questioning while others were seen looking for petrol and used tyres to set her ablaze alleging that she is a witch. It was gathered that the police from the Oworo police division immediately raced to the scene but their efforts to disperse the crowd was difficult as the mob threatened to deal with them for attempting to stop them from setting her on fire. The police successfully rescued the woman and took her to the Oworonsoki police station where the suspect is being interrogated and for her protection. A source told Daily Independent that the woman had disclosed to the police that she alongside her friend were coming from the Apostolic church Ketu, and later decided to move to Oworonsoki for their operation and they fell midway. Found on the woman was a polythene bag containing a hospital patience card NTBL Control Programme Nigeria,Ikosi PHC. Further enquiries by Daily Independent revealed that the suspect’s children had been searching for her when she failed to return home on Saturday and they went to lodge a report at the Alapere police station. It was gathered that they were advised to return home and to report back to the police after 24 hours if she fails to return. Our source said the incident was communicated to all police division via radio on the case of a missing person and the Alapere division had to convey the message to the family who went to Iyana-oworo station to meet their mother. Meanwhile, a police source said the woman may be taken to court today but Daily Independent is yet to know what she will be charged for.