Three rights organisations alongside 6,721 Nigerians have dragged the National Assembly Service Commission to the Federal High Court in Lagos over alleged plan by the Senate to buy luxury cars worth N5.5 billion for its principal members. In the suit marked, FHC/L/CS/1511/2019, the rights organisations, namely, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), BudgIT, Enough is Enough (EiE) and the concerned Nigerians, are asking the court to restrain and stop the Senate from collecting the money until the downward review of the huge sum. The 6,721 concerned Nigerians, who joined the suit as co-plaintiffs with SERAP, BudgIT and EiE, include; Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) co-conveners, Oby Ezekwesili and Aisha Yesufu; Jibrin Ibrahim; Edetaen Ojo; Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi and Deji Adeyanju. The plaintiffs argued that spending a huge sum of N5.5 billion to buy luxury cars for principal members of the Senate is unjust and unfair as it negates the constitutional oath of office made by the lawmakers to perform their functions in the interest of the well-being and prosperity of Nigeria and its citizens, as enshrined in the constitution. They further noted that the money could be better allocated to more important sectors of the National Assembly expenditure, like constituency projects and National Assembly-endowed educational scholarships. “A public officer shall not put himself in a position where his personal interest conflicts with his official duties. But, the plan to spend N5.5 billion to buy vehicles for principal members of the Senate is a textbook case of a conflict of their personal interests with national interest of fiscal efficiency – a conflict eventually resolved in favour of personal and self-interest. “Members of the National Assembly as public officials form a very tiny percentage of about 200 million Nigerians. It is public knowledge and judicially noticed that members of the Senate are still eligible to collect huge sums of money as monthly allowances and severance pay on conclusion of their respective terms at the National Assembly,” the plaintiffs further argued. In 2015, following President Muhammadu Buhari’s order directing the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) to address public outcry over huge salaries and allowances of members of the National Assembly, the chairman of the commission, Elias Mbam, said that Senators and members of the House of Representatives will earn less than N1 million by the end of October 2015. Buhari had chided the RMAFC for approving excessive remunerations for some political office holders, and urged the commission to seek a proper interpretation of its powers and address the public outcry against the unreasonably high payments. The President also warned that severe sanctions will be visited on any individual or organisation that violates the directive on the payment of all national revenue into the Federation Account. The RMAFC boss said the commission had been working on the review of the salaries and allowances of the political office holders at National Assembly, the State Assemblies and Local Governments, adding that the review also covers the Judiciary. According to Mbam, “no member of the National Assembly should earn up to N1million per month” and that the Senators and Members of the House of Representatives have no option but to abide by the commission’s new wage formula. The RMAFC is saddled with the responsibility of determining the remuneration for political office holders, both elected and appointed, from the national level to the local government level. The pay packages of public office holders, particularly the salaries and allowances of the National Assembly members, have been an issue of serious concern among Nigerians. Since 2010, the N150 billion annual allocations to the National Assembly in the budget, which includes the salaries and allowances as well as other perks, have remained a closely guarded secret, as their details have always been hidden from the public. The 8th Senate in 2015 suspended open debate on the report of the Ad-hoc Committee on the Review of the Finances of the upper legislative body. The report of the review, believed to have recommended the pruning down of the legislators’ jumbo pay was listed in the order paper but was later dropped for “executive session” – a euphemism for closed-door meeting. The Senate’s decision to keep the debate out of public glare fuelled speculations that the senators were opposed to the downward review of their approved pay and illegal allowances. It was reported that the lawmakers eventually debated the issue of budget review behind closed doors. After the closed-door session, the former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, announced a suspension of the report of the committee for further legislative input. It was learnt that during the executive session, many of the senators argued against pay cut, saying they have increasing obligations to their constituencies. Some also contended that there was no need for any review given that the National Assembly budget for 2015 was already slashed from N150 billion to N120 billion. Saraki had set up the committee on June 25, 2015 to review the finances of the Senate, following public outcry over the alleged huge wardrobe allowances for lawmakers. Going by the remuneration approved for them by the RMAFC,  the annual take-home (excluding estacode, Duty Tour Allowance (DTA) and some sundry allowances which they are paid as necessary), of each of the 360 members of the House of Representatives is estimated at N18.26 million. Each of the 109 senators earns a bit higher, pocketing N19.66 million each a year. Additionally, each senator collects N1.01 million a year for his or her domestic staff, while each member of the House of Representatives collects N1million for the same purpose. Each lawmaker gets N202, 640 as Newspapers/Periodicals allowance per annum. Based on the approved pay schedule, N1.4billion is spent on the 469 lawmakers as furniture allowance annually, while their car loan stands at N2.34billion per annum. These figures put together, the 360 members of the House of Representatives gulp N6.58 billion from the nation’s treasury in annual salaries and allowances, while the 109 Senators cost the nation N2.14 billion in similar emoluments. Cumulatively, the country shells out a hefty N8.72 billion every year in salaries and allowances to lawmakers in the two chambers of the National Assembly. However, the amount the Senators and Members of the House of Representatives remit as tax appears insignificant as their income tax is calculated as a function of their basic salaries alone. In the twilight of the Seventh Assembly, led by Senator David Mark , the clamour by Nigerian civil society organisations only forced the legislators to knock off N20 billion from their budgetary allocation, thus making them cut the habitual annual budget of N150 billion to N130 billion. Nigerian lawmakers in the Seventh Senate managed to approve only 106 new laws out of 1,063 brought before them in four years, despite spending more than half a trillion naira within the period, earning the notorious title as the world’s highest paid legislators. While the lawmakers take so much, their work rate has been dismally poor. The miserable worth of Nigerian legislators’ output is amplified when compared with their American counterparts. While the legislature, under the leadership of David Mark and Aminu Tambuwal at the Senate and House of Representatives respectively managed to clear 106 bills in four years, the U.S. Congress passed 297 bills between 2013 and 2014. That figure was indeed one of the lowest for any U.S. Congress session as the two chambers passed 604 in 1999, and 460 between 2007 and 2008. The authoritative London-based magazine, The Economist, in a recent report, ranked Nigerian lawmakers as the highest paid in the world. The report revealed the annual salary of legislators in several countries, which include USA, $174,000; Ghana, $46,500; Indonesia, $65,800; Thailand, $43,800; India, $11,200; Italy, $182,000; Bangladesh, $4,000; Israel, $114,800; Hong Kong, $130,000; Japan, $149,700; and Singapore, $154,000. The Nigerian federal legislator’s annual earning was put at about $189,000 (N30 million) annually. The lawmakers’ jumbo salary is indicative of the huge gap between the poor and the rich as well as between the ruler and the ruled. It is very unfortunate that Nigeria is running the costliest democracy in the world. This is part of the reasons 70 per cent of the nation’s budget is allocated to re-current expenditure. We are using a huge chunk of the nation’s resources to service just less than 1,000 people in a country of over 180 million people. We are running the costliest democracy in the world.  We can’t develop this way when we spend huge money to service a few people.  How do we get money for productive activities to expand the economy? An average Nigerian cannot access good medical care, good roads and other basic things of life when the legislators are smiling to the banks. The nation’s political leaders need to walk the talk; and must understand that service to the nation demands personal sacrifice devoid of self-aggrandizement.