Air Vice Marshall Idongesit Nkanga (rtd) was the Military Governor of Akwa Ibom State between September 1990 and January 1992 during the military regime of General Ibrahim Babangida (rtd). As the Director General, Gov. Emmanuel Udom’s Campaign Organisation for second term, he explained how his team overcame the daunting challenges posed by the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, and other sundry issues. He spoke with DANIEL ABIA. Excerpts: In accepting to be Governor Emmanuel Udom’s Director General of Campaign Organisation for his re-election, it must have been with reasons giving the battle you were exposed to face in the likes of Senator Godswill Akpabio, Nsima Ekere, Don Etiebet and other political bigwigs in the state in the 2019 elections. What did you do differently to succeed in that task? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network First, there were sleepless nights. I am human and you have to be apprehensive. I looked at the governor himself, he wasn’t sleepless. He said anything you have handed over to God, why do you have to be sleepless. ‘Is only God’ was the slogan that went on throughout our campaign. When we first started it, some people didn’t take it serious that ‘There is God’. I remember when that slogan came, we were holding a retreat in Eket for the media committee and some people said we should change the slogan and I said no, that is the slogan we will use. The governor was happy with it. But, the opposition made jest of it initially. They said we were saying ‘There is only God’, where was God when I made him (Udom) governor? I will tell you something: before we started our elections, we went to the church at Ikot Ekpene road and the governor said, ‘If we go to consult human beings, why can’t we go and consult God for at least 30 minutes?’ The opposition again started saying, ‘You see, they don’t even know where to go to consult.’ That alone enraged the Christian community in this state. This state is 99% Christians. In effect, God was pushing them to show that He is God, so that no other person will take credit at the end of the day, except Himself. It manifested clearly in the victory. It was not as if it were sleepless nights except the apprehension of being a human being. We looked to the leader, the governor. He carries Christianity as a badge of honour. Everybody fell in line up to the last moment. I remember the last night, he prayed and said he was handing over everything to God. You now stand at a vantage position as a kingmaker, especially in this government, what joy do you derive as a kingmaker? I am not a kingmaker per se. I am just a contributor to the development of the state. I feel fulfilled to play my part in what is going on in the state. I contribute my ideas and they use it in a way that at the end of the day, I am happy that I played my part. I don’t think there is any contribution that I can give to this state that is too much. This state has supported me tremendously at the time I needed it. I won’t hesitate to contribute my bit to the state. Besides, my children belong to this state, so even if I am not doing it for anybody, can’t I do it for the sake of my children?   Whether I am a kingmaker or not is not an issue. The fulfillment comes from the fact that you have been able to be a part of the good things that are happening here. You contested for the governorship of Akwa Ibom State in 2002 on the platform of National Democratic Party (NDP), when you talked of overwhelming support given to you by the people of the state. Why didn’t you enjoy same at that time to be elected as a civilian governor? The mechanics of politics is something else. Josef Stalin said it is not those who cast the vote that matter, but those who count the vote. These things are true. Elections in Nigeria are still evolving. There was a time people ran away with ballot boxes. But, today, it is not very profitable doing that. But, you can just change the figures somehow. During that election (2002), people cried. Even people from the Oron area came to me and said this is what we wanted but they came and changed it (election results). People who scuttled that election later confessed after some years. The support was overwhelming. When I came to the state to join politics, I was a bit naïve politically. My conscience was very clear. I wanted to do the best I could under the circumstances I found myself. If the people don’t support you, whether military or not, you will fail. It is not every military people that succeeded wherever they went. I told my supporters the night before I left that I was going back to my vocation (military) and because of the support the people gave to me, I told them that wherever I found myself, I will put up my best to bring it to bear in the state positively. It was after the (civil) war that I came to Etinan. I was not in the state but in Abia State. I did not know those little intricacies. That support Akwa Ibom people gave to me, I cannot leave them. The recent statement by President Muhammadu Buhari authorising his ministers to route official requests of meeting with him through his Chief of Staff has raised a lot of flak. What is your opinion on this? I haven’t thought about that. But, first of all, that is his internal arrangement with his staff and I am not sure it is in the constitution that the President must have a Chief of Staff. If it is not there, then he must have some other people that are helping him to achieve whatever result he wants to achieve. I think that the President has also come out to try to defend what he said. The point is that it is not whether the Chief of Staff is to do this or that, what we want is result. If results are not coming, that is what matters. That is why I have not given this a thought. I was in the Villa as Commander of Presidential Air Fleet. I was Principal Staff Officer for Aviation. There was a Chief of Staff. But, I don’t want to make any comparison now. This is a different setting all together. I don’t think he has a role of coordinating the ministers because there is a Cabinet Office with the SGF working in tandem with the ministers and the President or Head of State at that time. There is no point breaking our heads over this matter. If somebody sees that constitutionally or legally what has been done is wrong, he can go to court. We are in a democracy. That is open. There is a National Assembly and if they feel that the law has been broken, they can speak about that. It will be a waste of effort to say this or that especially if that thing is not in the constitution. What I want is result. What I want us to do is that this carnage, this insecurity ends. What I want to see is that Nigerians can live a better life. If the adjustment of the role of the Chief of Staff is what will bring the result that we crave for, so be it. I am not really bothered about how they arrange their cabinet. Could you describe the first four years of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s government on the basis of whether Nigeria is moving forward or retrogressing? I describe the first four years in context of what he promised. This is democracy, what you promised, you must also fulfill. If you promised and you don’t fulfilled, then is a failure. And when I look at it on the scale, out of 10, I don’t think we have made progress beyond three. No matter what anybody says today, security in this country is in a very bad shape. No matter what anybody says today, if we have failed in the cardinal point that was made, then I cannot stand up and say we have done exceedingly well. What pains me in security is that we are losing lives. I hear people say that it is being exaggerated. If you are a human being, the loss of one life should diminish you. There is nothing to say, oh, last year we lost 20 and this year we lost 15, so it is good. That is not right. When you hear a country that will do everything to save the life of one person, it reflects on the kind of people they are. But if we sit here and say, after all last year it was 20 and this year is 19, so we should celebrate, then there is something wrong with us. Even if you put animals in a cage, they don’t kill themselves and look as we do in this country. Within this period, we have come through recession. It is easy to roll out statistics. Everybody knows whether there is hardship, high exchange rate and many other things. Ask people on the streets on this, maybe I am not the right person to even comment on this because by the grace of God, I am reasonably privileged. Ask people on the streets, find out from them and they will tell you that all is not well. But for those who keep saying that all is well, they are the enemies of this country. They fight for corruption, I have seen the energy Mr. President has expended on it. But, the people within his immediate vicinity…it is difficult for you to comprehend. If want to fight satan, must you bring satan because he knows how to be satan? The people around the President are not giving the right perception. There are other people that are saying that if you are, no matter what you did, you are now a saint. Perception is also important. It is how many people you have thrown into jail. It is not how many people you have dehumanised. It is not how many people the media has done the trial on. That is not the point. Giving the perception, the man on the street knows better. When you put all of these together, I don’t think we have done well. President Buhari has given three key appointments geared towards the development of the Niger Delta region with the former governor, Senator Godswill Akpabio, leading the pack. What agenda will you like to set for them? I will not waste my time to tell the Minister do this or that. Government has a policy and puts together the direction that they want. It doesn’t matter to me who is a Minister. That is immaterial. The point there is that we have said what is best for the people of the Niger Delta region. On November 1, 2016, we went to Mr. President and provided him a 16-point agenda on the platform of PANDEF. We said that to bring peace to Niger Delta which also means peace to the nation…… at that time we were just going into recession and these young people started breaking the oil pipelines. We spoke to them that we cannot destroy Nigeria. The country is paramount. Let us give peace a chance, they listened. People have paid the supreme sacrifice in this region and we don’t want to shed blood anymore. There must be some other ways of looking for peace and these young people listened to us. Then the recession started the recovery. They (militants) brought it (bombing) to the point that we were having 300,000 to 600,000 barrels of oil in a day. But, when they called off their actions, we went to about 2. 4 million barrels of oil a day. Majority of those things we demanded in the 16-point don’t even require money from the Federal Government but political statement. Of the 16 point, just half of one has been done. So,15 and half have not been done. That half of one is the university at Gbaramatu in Okerenkoko. That was not even done until they went and intimidated people at Gbaramatu with soldiers and security operatives. The second half of that was the upgrading of the Maritime Academy in Oron to university. They just threw it to the Senate and that was the end. All the other ones, nothing has been done. Today, how do we talk to those young men? They feel that they have been betrayed. It is not a matter of who is a Minister or who is not. The elders had told the agitators to corporate with the Federal Government that things would be done rightly. But, today they feel betrayed. So, since these demands are not met, is it right to say that if the militants go back to trenches, they will be justified to do so? Well, we pray that should not be the case. But, it will be very difficult to speak to them. You cannot go and use the same excuse again. You cannot. That is why I said we must look for new ways for peace in the Niger Delta. How would you rate the performance of your state governor, Udom Emmanuel, in the past four years? I wish you can take more time to go round the state to see things for yourself. Uyo is just the state capital of Akwa Ibom. Go round the entire state and you will appreciate what we have done. When you say physical impact….when you say today, I want to tar the roads, build hospitals, it is very easy. But, what you see in the state today are investments. You must interpret that investment to see how it impacts on people’s lives. Up to this December, 15 industries are coming to this state. In the next couple of weeks or so, the Vice President is coming to commission the Flour Mill. Many states in this country cannot even pay salaries, much less of bringing money to invest. You must make your environment friendly to investors. If there is anything this governor has done, it is the friendliness to investors. I believe that one such investments is the Ibom Air? Forget about Ibom Air. That is just something that can bring tourism and has a multiplier effect. But, what I am telling you is that what the governor has done is huge. For somebody to invest, there are certain indices that you must see like the source energy. The Independent Power Project is bringing 191mw of power. They have given approval to go 685mw in the state. That is far more than what we need. The problem is not generation. The problem is in distribution and transmission which is in the purview of the Federal Government. That is why we keep saying that we want restructuring of this country. That is what the Niger Delta people want. We are looking at 18 industries in Akwa Ibom. That is why we must be sure of the source of energy. Communication is the next step. See the roads that have been done. I am surprised that you said you have not seen much. More roads have been done in Oron in particular than what happened in the past administrations. Even in the last 16 years. We are talking of over 1000km of roads that we have tarred in the state. Security is a main thing that any investor will look at. Money is a coward that will not go to where it will not be protected. If you don’t have security, no investor will come. You cannot grow as a country without investors coming in to invest. Akwa Ibom in the past four years has been the second most attractive foreign direct investment destination in this country next to Lagos State. It is a fact. The Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, when they brought a $1.2 billion investment to Esit Eket, said the main reason for bringing the project was the security of the state. The security did not just come like that. It is worked for. The Flour Mill that is to be commissioned, the investor is the second largest in Europe. When it comes to investment, you need somebody like Governor Emmanuel Udom. This is a governor with signature. Is the Ibaka Deep Sea Port realisable? It is realisable if the Federal Government is committed. There are 22 stages to it, we have finished 20 steps and this was pushed by the state. If the state has done 20 steps, is that a government that is not serious about the project?  If you take away the international airport and seaport from Port Harcourt or Lagos, those places are nothing. That is why we said we will open up the roads, open up the skies and open up the sea for our people. Thank God you were there when former President Obasanjo came to commission the airport and said we will partner with the state. The Federal Government has been trying to do the MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Operations), that we did for years, they have not been able. The Federal Government promised to provide a technical support. We have a letter signed by Issa Yuguda as a Minister for Aviation then that said this will be called the National Hangar. But, I can tell you that up to this moment, the Federal Government has not put a kobo to that airport. We brought Stella Odua then as a Minister to the airport. She just sat in the bus and asked, ‘Is that the MRO’, and then left. So, whatever you have seen here is as a result of the prudent management of the Akwa Ibom State government that we have had in place. This is a Category 2 Airport. It was not designed for double Boeing to land and take off at the same time. It was meant to carry Boeing 747. What we have there can carry Airbus 280. Category One and Two is like day and night. It takes a Boeing 747-400 series because of the hangar. We have the best facilities in this airport. Could we then say that the Ibaka seaport is highly politicised? Of course, it is. The preferred bidder we got for that project is one of the best bidders in the world managing ports. Incidentally, what we have done with the airport cannot be the same with the seaport. The central government has not made things easy for us. If I tell you what we went through to get this airline on (Ibom Air), you will be shocked. We have a committee working with the NPA on the seaport. This is not just the Akwa Ibom State government’s thing. But, people don’t want it done or are just jealous.