ABEOKUTA – Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has disclosed that the state government would soon be implementing a program for women that would allow them to directly have access to loans under the ‘O ko wo Dapo’ Empowerment Initiative. Abiodun, who made this known at Ijebu- Ode while on an inspection tour of ongoing works at Ashafa-Oke and Degun, said the initiative would avail government the opportunity to directly offer loans to the beneficiaries, adding that the women would be chosen across board. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “In the next one week, we will be implementing our program for our women; the program for our women is an empowerment scheme, which allows us to directly offer loans to women, loans that will be given to them directly and not through any intermediary. “We are choosing our women across board, across the entire state, including market women, people who are artisans, any woman who is engaged in any trade that requires her to utilise a loan. “We will give them a soft loan that will be repayable over a period of time,” he said. Abiodun noted that the two roads situated at Ashafa-Oke and Degun would help solve the issues of perennial flooding in the town, urging residents in the area to take ownership of the project and support the Ogun State Public Works Agency. “The rehabilitation work we are doing here is not limited to Ijebu-Ode alone; work is also going on in Sagamu, Ado-Odo-Ota and it is my hope that as we continue and embark on these projects, more of our youths will be gainfully engaged. “I urge you to corporate with our Public Works Agency, join hands with them, be part of them, take ownership of this project, it is about you, not about me. “These roads here are roads that have accounted for a lot of flooding in this area because of a poor drainage facility. That is why we have focused on starting from here, if we are able to ensure that these roads are properly constructed with the right drainage, then we would have solved about 60% of the issue of perennial flooding in Ijebu Ode,” he said.