LAGOS – Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, Alaafin of Oyo, has applauded the police and the Southwest Governors on the recent move to partner with the Aare Gani Adamsl-led members of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) in their efforts to curb insecurity in region. The monarch said this on Wednesday shortly after holding a closed-door meeting with the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams,at the Palace in Oyo. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Adams had visited the Oyo Palace, on his way back from Ogbomoso, where he met with royal fathers, including the Soun of Ogbomosho, Oba Jimoh Oladunni, the Onijabata of Jabata, and Ajase monarch. Adams, however, said the ancient city had, in the past, produced six Aare Onakakanfos, all togethe, where the recent OPC’s National Coordinating Council (NCC) meeting was also held. Speaking, Alaafin said with the new move, the police have shown commitment to end insecurity in the region. He said the partnership with the OPC would bring the much needed peace and tranquility across the Southwest. “As custodians of Yoruba culture, the traditional rulers have the native intelligence of their respective domains and kingdoms. We are very close to the people at the grassroots, and on daily basis, we are fed with information that is crucial to the growth and development of the region. “For instance, in Oyo town and its environs, I have all the information from across all the 14 local governments in the state. So, the traditional rulers will always have their ears on the ground on all issues, especially, issues that have to do with the safety and security of their respective domains.” Alaafin said after meeting with the Aare Onakakanfo, they have fine-tuned the strategies and methods of approach, saying OPC would incorporate other notable groups, including the vigilance group, Agbakoya, and other reputable security outfits. Oba Adeyemi expressed optimism on the new move by the Inspector General of Police, saying efforts should be made to fast track the initiative, with effective modalities put in place to get all the stakeholders involved without further delay.