An Iranian activist is lashing out at FIFA following the death of a female fan who set herself on fire after she was denied access to a soccer stadium in Tehran. Maryam Shojaei is a member of the women’s advocacy group @OpenStadiums, which lobbies against Iran’s longtime ban on females attending sporting events at stadiums in the country. Her brother, Masoud Shojaei, is the captain of Iran’s national football team.
She says the sport’s world governing body hasn’t done enough to confront the ban, especially in the wake of 29-year-old Sahar Khodayari’s death. Dubbed the “Blue Girl” on social media, after the colors of her favorite Iranian soccer team, Esteghlal, Khodayari, was charged with “‘openly committing a sinful act by “appearing in public without a hijab'” when she attempted to enter a stadium “dressed as a man” in March, according to human rights group Amnesty International. Activist Shojaei told CNN that she has written eight letters to FIFA President Gianni Infantino to inform him of the current challenges faced by female soccer fans in Iran.
She also says she delivered a letter to FIFA’s secretary-general Fatma Samoura and urged her to take action. “I think FIFA is the one to blame and if they enforced their own human rights and gender discrimination rules, Sahar would have been alive today,” she said.
“They said they would ask Iran to end this ban and to provide safety for women but releasing a statement is one thing and enforcing it … this issue is time-sensitive. You know we cannot wait. We have been waiting for 40 years and I think that’s more than enough.
“Now FIFA has to take action immediately by enforcing its own human rights rules.”
FIFA responded, saying it “refutes any suggestion it has been inactive in the fight for these women’s rights in Iran. We are working with the Iranian Football Association in the hope and expectation that women will be in attendance at future games beginning with the FIFA World Cup qualifiers in October.” Iran’s ban on women attending sports stadiums was put in place shortly after the 1979 Islamic Revolution. Amnesty and Human Rights Watch (HRW) have both called on football’s world governing body FIFA to end the ban.
In June, FIFA sent a letter to the Iranian Football Federation (FFIRI), requesting a timeline that would allow women to be able to buy tickets for World Cup qualifiers, Reuters reported.
Iran’s men’s national team faces Cambodia in a World Cup qualifier in Tehran on October 10 — a game Shojaei hopes women will be allowed to attend.
“I’m very positive that by October 10 it will let women inside and what happened to Sahar and the whole international attention this issue received, I think the problem is going to be solved.”