Life takes us down roads we never imagined, and whether we are ready for that adventure or not, it is a train that never stops moving. Adebimpe Oyebade is many expected things. She is a Nollywood actress and filmmaker with several accomplishments. Among the unexpected though is the fact that she is a model, a former beauty queen, and a fashion entrepreneur. The leggy beauty bares it all in this interview with TOMI FALADE, IFEOMA ONONYE, and OYEBOLA OLUBUNMI. Excerpts… You are a model, actor, filmmaker and a budding entrepreneur, how do you cope with the various roles? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I have always been up and doing. I am hardworking; so I cope. Asides my career in entertainment I have a store in Ojodu, Mo Luxury, where I sell both male and female clothes. Tell us about your first accomplishment as a filmmaker. I have actually produced five movies; Dear Sister, Entrapped, 0707, Adebimpe Omooba (Adebimpe the princess); and just a couple of days ago, I completed the shooting of my film, Resentment. Was acting always the goal for you? Actually, I studied English and I didn’t know I even had the talent because I am naturally a shy person; I didn’t like acting. When I was in school, we had a course called Theatre Workshop and I would ‘dodge’ whenever it came to acting. But when I went to serve in Edo State, Benin in 2016, I got an opportunity to feature in a film. At the time, I was a professional model, but I got a broadcast message on Whatsapp that they needed a model for a role in a movie, and the model had to be a dark-skinned girl. My manager at the time asked if I would go for the audition. Since I was in Benin, I was reluctant, but I was willing to do an online audition. They did their auditions and they didn’t find what they were looking for, so they sent a new message that people should send in two monologues each to a certain email. I did mine and I sent it, and that was how I got into acting. It hasn’t been easy, but I thank God for His grace. So far, what role would you say challenged you the most? That would be the role I played in my first movie ever. Agbede Meji (Crossroads) by Yomi Fabiyi. It is still the most challenging movie role I ever got. Before that, I had never acted in my whole life. On that set, I had to play the lead and the movie had to do with violence. I starred alongside Gabriel Afolayan. It was a truly challenging one. What was your childhood dream, career-wise? I wanted to be a presenter and an international model. I was already modelling before acting. I started with pageantry when I was in school. I was Miss Culture and Miss Ekiti at a time, because I am from Ekiti, and I schooled in Ekiti. After school, I joined a modelling agency, and I started modelling for different cosmetics, hair companies in Newspaper and TV adverts. Unfortunately, I don’t really have time to model as much anymore because of acting. Acting takes a lot of our time. It is time-consuming and I don’t really have the time to model like I used to. Have you ever experienced sexual harassment in the industry? When I featured in my first movie, no. I didn’t go through that, so I can’t attest to the fact that sexual harassment exists in the industry because I haven’t experienced it. But I think the stories are real because women go through a lot on a daily basis and it is not limited to the movie industry. In my final year in school when I was working on my project, my supervisor at the time wanted to sleep with me. So we go through these things every day. Men would make advances, but it depends on how you handle it. I don’t think anyone would force you into what you don’t want to do. Do you have particular fashion preferences when it comes to clothes? I think everything looks good on me. I don’t really wear black anymore because of acting. It doesn’t go well with the camera, so I try to avoid it, especially because I am dark-skinned. Have you ever turned down a movie role? Of course, yes. Most times because I read the movie script and I am not comfortable with the story. Can you go nude for a film? I wouldn’t go nude in a film. I have never gotten a script that required me to appear nude, but if I get one, I would definitely turn it down. What’s the craziest thing someone has ever done to you on social media? A fan once sent me a picture of his penis. I just blocked the person on Instagram. I stopped using Facebook because of things like that, but they have moved to Instagram. They just send racy pictures like that, and you open the messages and ‘boom!’ you are confronted with s u c h images. How about your fans, how do they react when they see you, anything memorable? Some people meet you and you just discover that they know you so well. They would recount your actions in movies, your works, and other things; including the soundtrack of the movies. I feel so honoured when I meet people for the first time and they appreciate what I do deeply. That’s how you know a great fan. How do you handle trolls on social media? I try to be as calm as possible, but sometimes they can push you to the wall. As much as I can be calm though, I am still human. That’s what these people need to know. Celebrities are humans and they have blood running in their veins. We can’t be perfect. Why must you troll me on my own page? It doesn’t make sense, especially when I have not done anything wrong to you, and I don’t even know you. At a point, I had to turn off the comment section on a lot of my posts. Has fame affected your friendships, especially since there is a notion that friends can make or mar you? Since I came into the industry, I can tell you that I do not have even one female friend. All my friends are male. Are we expecting to hear wedding bells soon? When God says. Is there any man in the picture right now? No, not really. Would you say you are single and searching? No, I am not searching. But if the right man comes, why not? Would you agree if in the future, your man asks you to stop acting and modelling? That would be hard. I actually had to go through that when I started. I had a relationship, and when my first film came out, the guy I was dating at the time wanted me to stop. It had become my passion and I couldn’t just let it go. In a relationship, you shouldn’t be selfish. If a man likes something, I would support him, and I believe he should do the same for me. I see comments that people make about not wanting to marry an actress. It is the job! The scandals we read and hear about does not happen in the entertainment industry alone, it is everywhere. That is the truth. At what point did you consider yourself a celebrity? Even right now, I don’t consider myself a celebrity. I am a normal girl. What is the one thing fame has taken away from you? Most times, because I don’t consider myself a celebrity, so sometimes I just go out. I recently went to get some things in the market and I was haggling. When I was done, some of the market women said: “we enjoy you in films, yet you are haggling.” Sometimes I forget I am a TV person and I go out and do whatever I have to do. What are your plans in the next few years? A lot more movies, my own modelling agency, and an acting academy.