LAGOS – As the political crisis between Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor continues to gather steam in Edo state, political gladiators in the state have been singing discordant tunes on whether the Governor, popularly called ‘Mr Wake and See’ will be allowed by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to fly its flag next year should in case he decides to seek reelection. The build-up ahead of Edo 2020 has divided the leadership of the party in the state between those said to be loyal to Obaseki and Oshiomhole. While the state exco of the party led by Barr. Anselm Ojezua, the state chairman of APC are in total support of Obaseki, some party leaders who are loyal to Oshiomhole are against him, thereby fueling the rift between the two friends. The battle for the ticket is expected to be intense and intriguing as Obaseki with the recent political development in the state is enjoying home support with the gale of endorsements towards his second term bid from teachers, pensioners, traders, social crusaders, grassroots political leaders, as well as the state executives and bigwigs of the APC. A political pressure group, named Edo In Safe Hands that was founded in November 2011 played a critical role for the re-election of former governor Adams Oshiomhole. The group few weeks ago called on the leadership of the party to resist pressure to deny Obaseki/ Shaibu ticket to contest the 2020 governorship election. They noted that their reason was premised “on the fact that the administration in the last three years has done well.” Spokesperson for the group, Nosa Idele Ogbeide, in a statement, explained that the group’s decision “to canvass for the nomination and re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2020 gubernatorial election in Edo State is anchored on the fact that the administration has done well in the three years of its first term in office. “We insist that the APC in Edo State should ensure that Obaseki/Shaibu gets the party’s nomination. The governor’s re-election in 2020 will be taken care of by Edo people as payback for his visionary and impactful leadership.” Though Obaseki has not declared his intention of seeking another term in office, many believe he would do so having initiated many laudable ongoing projects which may not be completed in his first term. However, some loyalists of Oshiomhole have boasted that the former Labour leader will use his influence as the national chairman of the party to deny Obaseki a second term. To them, no matter his level of performance, Obaseki will be visited with the ‘Ambode treatment’, in reference to immediate past Governor of Lagos state, Akinwunmi Ambode who was denied a second term by the power brokers in Lagos APC for his alleged high-handedness, betraying those who assisted him to power and for coming up with policies which gravely affected their economic lifelines. So bad was Ambode’s case that even when the numero uno of Lagos politics, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu accepted the pleas of some gladiators who pleaded on Ambode’s behalf, the party elders in Lagos who are in the Mandate Group, the most influential political group in the state allegedly threatened to revolt against Tinubu if pardons Ambode. Tinubu had no option but to toe their line. Ambode who had earlier been endorsed for a second term by all the political stakeholders in Lagos including the three senators in the state, all members of the House of Reps caucus in Lagos, all the 57 local council bosses, members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) was rejected and they all queued behind Babajide Sanwo- Olu who is now the governor of the state. While promising that same fate will befall Obaseki next year, “Henry Idahagbon, immediate past Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Edo State and a loyalist of Oshiomhole said “Leaders of APC made a fundamental mistake in 2015 when they brought a political neophyte, somebody who has never been in government, somebody who has never done anything tangible or worthwhile as governor”. “As 2020 approaches, some of us have decided to bell the cat, we have decided to face the challenges headlong because Obaseki believes that he is smart, and that all Edo people are dullards, that we don’t have intelligent people. That is why he brings in boys from Lagos, from Delta and then from his second state, Rivers. You know his second state is Rivers. Those are the people he brings to come and do all the jobs”. “We are determined that in 2020, we will have a replacement for Obaseki, because the voice of the people is the voice of God”. However, concerned political leaders in Edo have described as ignorant those saying Obaseki will receive the Ambode treatment when he decides to seek reelection. Festus Etokhana , one of the APC leaders in Edo state said the Ambode treatment cannot work in Edo state because unlike former governor of Lagos state, Akinwunmi Ambode who was rejected by APC leaders in Lagos, Obaseki enjoys the support of Edo APC leaders. “There are many reasons why Obaseki can’t get Ambode treatment in Edo. One, the politics of Edo is very different from Lagos politics. Two, the governor enjoys the support of Edo APC leaders, Ambode did not. Even when Asiwaju Bola Tinubu wanted to pardon him, the leaders said they will revolt against him”. “In Edo here, 80 percent of APC members here are with Obaseki. The State Exco, led by the party chairman are solidly behind him. Many elders of the party like have risen in his defence when this issue started. So, how will he get the Ambode treatment here in Edo” he asked”. On accusation that the governor is ungrateful to those who assisted him to power, he said “Honestly, I think those accusing Governor Obaseki of being disloyal are making a grave mistake because they are not conversant with what is happening in Edo”. “Do you know the role Governor Obaseki played in his emergence as National Chairman? Even Oshiomhole has admitted himself that God used Obaseki in his becoming the Governor Of Edo state. Let me take you back a bit”. “When INEC declared that PDP and Senator Oserhiemen Osunbor won the 2007 governorship election in Edo state, Oshiomhole was confused and resigned to fate”. “It was Obaseki that approached him and said ‘Let us go to court, there are enough evidence that you won. Oshiomhole replied that he has no money to prosecute the case in court because he has exhausted all his money in the governorship election”. “Again, Obaseki asked him not to worry and he used his influence in the business world to rally people who raised the funds which Oshiomhole used in prosecuting the election. As God will have it, Oshiomhole won in court and when he was sworn-in, he appointed Obaseki as Head of his Economic team”. “Up till when he became national chairman, they had no issues. This whole issue started after he became national chairman because he started acting in strange ways. I think there is this Abuja influence that usually comes upon our politicians because the whole trouble started when he became national chairman and relocated to Abuja”. “He started acting in strange ways, giving orders to everybody, from governors to ministers. You all heard him when he said ‘ If President Buhari condones indiscipline, he won’t take it’ he said.