LAGOS – Nigerians won’t bother about the region that produces the President in 2023 if there is good governance, Chief Olatunji Shelle, a former chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State has said. Speaking in a chat with Daily Independent on the argument that the North is planning to retain the Presidency after President Muhammadu Buhari must have completed his 8-year reign, Shelle who said it is too early to be talking about 2023 said no region should be barred from participating in the 2023 presidential election. “I would have reasoned that there is nothing bad in any part of the country ruling Nigeria if things are working very well and there is good governance. Many of us wouldn’t have bothered about the issue of zoning if there is purposeful leadership and sincerity on the part of the rulers”. “Even if elections were massively rigged, we won’t even complain. We would have consoled ourselves that at least we have good governance”. “However, bad governance has eaten into the fabric of the system that we are all in pains. There is no day in this country that you won’t see one thing or the other that saddens the heart such as insecurity, kidnapping, unemployment, poor infrastructure, avoidable accidents and so on”. “So, I think no region should be barred from contesting in the 2023 elections but I must say that some people have come out too early. They are not strategic at all. They have come out too early and now all eyes are on them. Everything is not about election. We want good governance, jobs, and other dividends of democracy”. “Some people encourage indolence. They rig elections and still find excuses for INEC. All these things put together is a distraction for all of us. Rather than being strategic, people just came out and started campaigning for 2023 when Nigerians are not happy about what is going on. Fortunately, they belong to the same party even though I don’t want to mention their name. On our part, the PDP, we are not bothered over 2023 yet. We are still looking to the court to retrieve our mandate . But within the party in power, both North and South, they don’t trust each other” he said.