LAGOS – Recently, the Lagos State House of Assembly became worried over the issue of environmental challenges and degradation confronting the Centre of Excellence and set up an ad hoc committee to look into the issues with a view to finding a lasting solution. Before the last administration of Akinwunmi Ambode left office, many parts of the state were taken over by refuse to the extent that the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) became so overwhelmed and could not handle the issue. In its recent reaction, the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) accused the Lagos State government and some chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of taking undue advantage of the environmental challenges in the state to make money. Barrister Taofik Gani, PDP spokesman in Lagos, in an interview with our reporter, said, “The issue of refuse all over the state is something we have always criticised, we have on several occasions issued press statements condemning the scourge and also giving them other alternatives to correcting this. “Unfortunately, there is a fundamental problem in Lagos, which is the issue of serving the interest of APC chieftains, right from the leaders of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and all other chieftains. I think this was well captured when Ambode was embarrassed out of office and he was bold enough to let the people know that the chieftains of the party wanted him to serve them more than the state. So, it is that common factor that is also reverberating in the area of waste management in the state. “The Lagos State Waste Management Authority is the statutory body that ordinarily should take care of waste management in the state, but chieftains of the APC in the likes of Cardinal James Odunmbaku and the rest have become overnight merchant of refuse business and they will collect money and not render the service. “The Lagos State government is realising monumental IGR that it is so embarrassing that you will find waste on the street of Lagos. So, in the area of waste management, this administration of Babajide Sanwo-Olu is a failure. The first 100 days in office of Sanwo-Olu will turn out to be the worst in the history of governors in Lagos State.” However, at its plenary session of Tuesday July 23, 2019, the House of Assembly set up an ad hoc committee. The committee, as announced by the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, had Hon. Moshood Oshun from Lagos Mainland Constituency 2 as its chairman. Other members of the committee were Hon. Olawale Olayiwola from Mushin Constituency 2, Hon. Folajimi Mohammed (Ikeja Constituency 1) and Hon. Tijani Suraju (Ojo Constituency 2). Obasa, who observed that issues of abandoned projects and disposal of refuse characterised the environment in the state, directed the committee to visit some of the drainages, LAWMA offices across the state and report back to the House. The decision to set up this committee was reached after a Matter of Urgent Public Importance was raised by the member representing Eti-Osa Constituency 1, Hon. Noheem Adams. Adams had recalled that there was an Executive Order by Governor Sanwo-Olu on May 29, 2019, where he declared state of emergency on the Environment in Lagos State. “Is there any improvement in waste management since the Executive Order was issued? It has improved in some parts of the state such as my area, Eti Osa Constituency 1, but it is not so in some other parts of the state. “There is a way we need to manage our waste in the state. We generate 13, 000 metric tonnes of waste daily in the state, but how do we turn them to wealth? Lagos State is being flooded daily during rainy season due to the way we manage our environment,” he said. The lawmaker subsequently urged the state Ministry of the Environment to evacuate the waterways in the state, adding that most of the drainages in the state were not being cleared. In his view, Hon. Rotimi Olowo, from Shomolu Constituency 1, stated that all the drainages around Maryland in Ikeja had been blocked, adding that the state needed to do more on dredging. He however, called on the local government to complement what the state government is doing on the environment. Also speaking on the matter, Hon. Bisi Yusuff from Alimosho Constituency 1 stated that refuse were being used to generate power in other climes. Yusuff said that the government could not do the work alone, adding that the attitude of the people would determine their altitude. “We should be vigilant about our environment. The work of clearing the drainage from Agege to Aboru was awarded and the contractor was mobilised with about N1billion and yet it has not been cleared,” he said. Hon. Rasheed Makinde (Ifako/Ijaiye Constituency 2), said that waste generation was synonymous to urbanisation, and that waste is generated based on human activities. According to him, when Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was the Governor of the state, the environment was well managed. “But in the last government, the companies that were clearing the waste were sent away only for the government to bring an organization that was not known to us. “We should bring back our PSPs, and we should work on our wetland. The office of the drainage management in the Ministry of the Environment should be made to work again. It is when the drains are blocked that we have a lot of flood on our roads,” he said. In his comment, the Majority Leader of the House, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade from Ikorodu Constituency 1, suggested that the lawmakers should collate the drainages that require attention in their constituencies and that the Assembly should send the list to the necessary agencies. Agunbiade added that the House could then evaluate what would have been done in the next two or three months. The ad hoc committee, had however, embarked on the assignment visiting some canals in the state to inspect level work being done by contractors in charge of clearing them. In one of its visits to Agbede area of Ikorodu, the committee noticed that residents of the area were fond of disposing their wastes into the canals, it then warned the residents to desist from disposing refuse into the canals around the area. Suraj, one of the ad-hoc committee members who noted that flooding are always caused by blocked drainages and waterways, lamented that most residents are fond of disposing their refuse into the canals which later leads to blockage. The lawmaker explained that the ongoing clearing and dredging in the area will bring about a total relief to the community as soon as its completed, adding that “the people also must help themselves by ensuring refuse and other things that can cause blockage to the free flow of water are not dump in the canal henceforth. “I will advise the communities to create a committee within themselves to see that the canal is not turn to a refuse dump site and anybody found wanting should be punished within agreed terms,” the lawmaker added. Some residents, who spoke on their experience in the past, explained that before the intervention by the state government, many of their people have had to relocate to other parts of the state as a result of flooding. Chairman of the dredging committee, Adebowale Awobajo commended the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu for coming to the aid, saying, “This is a good start from the governor and as you can see, our people are happy for the clearing and dredging of this canal because at every rainy season, it is always a nightmare for us.” Awobajo assured that the community will set up a committee that will always go round to ensure that residents do not dump their refuse into the canals, adding that anyone caught in such act will be dragged to the palace of their traditional ruler in the area “and if we can’t deal with the person at the palace, the we will go to the police station,” he added. Another resident, Mrs. Adedoyin Albert appreciated the state government for the timely intervention. She explained that the last time the canal was cleared was during the administration of Babatunde Fashola. The canal has been a source of worry to the residents whenever it rains and due to over flooding which wreaks havoc on the buildings and businesses within the area. However, in a bid to spread this message to every part of the state, the lawmakers on Wednesday, held a constituency stakeholders’ meeting in with the constituents. The Constituency Stakeholders’ Meeting with the theme “Environmental Challenges: Community Engagement to Facilitate Lasting Solution”, was held simultaneously in all the 40 constituencies across the state. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT correspondent was present at the Lagos Mainland Constituency 2 stakeholders’ meeting, where the chairman of ad-hoc committee constituted by the House, is representing. Delivering his keynote address at the event, Oshun appealed to his constituents to comply with all the environmental laws of the state, as a major way of addressing environmental issues in the state. He also urged the residents to embrace attitudinal change and join hands with the government in a renewed commitment to preserve the environment. He disclosed that despite efforts being put in place to sensitise residents on the need to protect the environment, some still prefer to violate the environmental law and involve in actions capable of frustrating government’s efforts and huge investment in the sector. The lawmaker pointed out that the government in protecting the environment and improving health standards of residents has resulted in the re-organisation of Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) to be proactive towards enforcing, regulating and ensuring improved waste management process. “Efforts are also being made to ensure that primary, secondary and tertiary drains are maintained all year round. This will entail constant removal of refuse, vegetal growth and silt from drains for free flow of storm water all across the state. “This edition of the stakeholders’ meeting is also to involve our various communities on how we can re-orientate ourselves on the need to properly handle our environmental challenges, how the communities can come up with suggestions and bring an end to the lingering threat of environmental challenges. “This, we believe would be achieved through curbing the continued indiscriminate dumping of refuse on streets, drainages and major highways; enlightening constituents on the need to properly dispose their waste; and creating awareness on the hazardous impact of environmental challenges in the state,” Oshun added. On his part, Obasa while reacting to a question relating to indiscriminate dumping of refuse and used cans by residents and motorists, called for more effective implementation of the environmental laws of the state. The speaker added that the Lagos Assembly will continue to collaborate with the executive arm of government to make the state habitable for the residents, just as he maintained that the laws regulating such negative practices are in place. According to him, what is left is effective implementation by the authorities saddled with such responsibility. “We have laws here and we will continue to encourage those implementing them to do whatever is necessary to regulate our lifestyles in the state. “I don’t think we have any reason to amend any law. The laws we have are adequate enough to check us. It is all about implementation which we need to improve on,” Obasa said. The speaker noted that the stakeholders’ meeting was necessary owing to the recent flooding experienced by the state as well as the impact of global warming across the globe. Noting that outcomes of previous town hall meetings have aided the planning and implementation of the annual budgets, he promised that reports from the stakeholders’ meeting would be favourably considered. The State Deputy Speaker, Wasiu Eshilokun-Sanni, at his own meeting, also warned members of the community, who are in the habit of indiscriminate dumping of refuse in drainages and canals to desist, saying anyone caught would be arrested and prosecuted under the environmental by-law in a customary court. Eshilokun-Sanni blamed traders for the environmental challenges confronting the state, saying, “The government is working to ensure the drains in the state are cleared and maintained. This entails constant removal of refuse, vegetal growth, and silt from drains for a free flow of storm water across the state. “The traders are the reason our drainages are blocked. I want to urge them to desist from displaying their wares on the street and drainage system. It is the major cause of the blocked drainage that we experience which further cause flooding in the state.” The Deputy Speaker, however, stressed that their activities further indicated that “a lot of work still needs to be done if Lagos would be able to achieve its desire as stated by the present administration.” Stakeholders present at the meeting took turn to make various suggestions on how to address some of the environmental issues affecting the state. While appealing for the reintroduction of monthly sanitation, the chairman, Community Development Committee (CDC), in Lagos Island, Abdul-Malik Buhari, lamented that since the cancellation of the exercise, the eco-system in the state had been altered. Also, an environmental expert, Falade Oyekan, added that lack of proper waste management was already having an effect on the buildings within Lagos Island. “Due to it, we are experiencing collapse building. We do not want that again in Lagos Island. So we will appeal that the sanitation exercise is reintroduced,” Oyekan said. Engr. Olufemi Adebayo and Sesi Smith, both residents of Ifako-Ijaiye, requested for the return of monthly sanitation exercise, saying, “This will assist a great deal in instilling sanitation culture in both young and old and bring about a sustaining cleaner environment for the good of all in the community, in particular and the state in general. It will also help reduce the crisis of blocked drainages, canals and indiscriminate refuse dump.”