Ibadan – A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Asiwaju Rotimi Ajanaku, has advised the governments of Nigeria and South Africa to weigh the consequences of the looming face-off that was likely to follow the xenophobic attacks in South Africa and take proactive precautions without further delay. Ajanaku said he was one of those that rose against act perpetrated by some elements, who attacked foreigners in South Africa two weeks ago. He also agreed that the decision of people all over the country to speak with one voice against the attack yielded positive results and equally forced South Africans to ceasefire. This was contained in a release signed personally by Ajanaku and made available to journalists on Tuesday through his media consultant, Adebowale Adeoye, in Ibadan. According to the statement, “If we had kept quite to the incessant killings of our people things would have gone out of control by now, our actions have yielded good and encouraging results. “We initially called for sanctions against South Africa and her citizens when they appeared unrepentant in their attacks against Nigerians and other Africa nationalities and the response from the Federal Government then seemed unsatisfactory. “Nigerian government felt pressured to act and subsequently recalled its ambassador from Pretoria and pulled out of the World Economic Forum meeting on Africa which was held in Cape Town. “Also encouraged and supported bringing back Nigerians who have faced danger in South Africa. On the other, South Africans have also started trooping out in large numbers appealing to foreigners for forgiveness, likewise government of South Africa has sent delegates to countries whose citizens were affected by the attacks. “Based on this development, there is need for stocktaking to determine the damage level, assessment of economic effects (advantages and disadvantages) of going into Cold War with South Africa. “There is urgent need by the presidents of the two countries to come out strong to signal intention to end ugly incident threatening their togetherness and make public declaration not to harm relations with each other. The two giants African economies should see themselves as allies and willing to keep the relationship that in many ways has produced good results. “There is an existing bi-national commission between the two countries, which should be used to reshuffle their cards to avoid recurrence of xenophobia and other diplomatic rancours. Proper investigation should be carried out to identify the major culprits and subsequently place very heavy and massive sanctions on them. He said Nigeria should consider its economic situation, state of insecurity and other problems affecting lives of over 160 millions of its population in its decision on South Africa. He said interdependency of the two nations contributed greatly to the existing rivalry between them, he said “Nigeria cannot afford to go into any form of war with any country now, not now that insurgency, kidnapping, communal clashes, corruption and unemployment have weaken the economy of our great country and “There is need to protect our business interest with other nations, especially now that Nigeria is yet to find its feet. For instance, Trump concluded his statement by saying ‘I understand there are members of Congress who, for political or other reasons, would like to go in a different direction – and they are free to do so.