AWKA – It is now established that only Igbo people in the world celebrate yam as king of crops for which reason they revere it and set a date aside to celebrate New Yam festival. Every year the months of August and September are devoted to this celebration. However, some communities celebrate theirs towards the end of July. Communities, which share a common heritage, have also adopted a common date to celebrate the new yam. For instance, communities in Dunukofia local council of Anambra State from time immemorial usually choose a date for the celebration. Usually Iwa ji Dunukofia falls on the first Oye market day before first Nkwo market day of September. This means that the New Yam may be celebrated in August or September. The first day known as Orira Ndi Eze is devoted to traditional rulers who must eat the new yam before anybody else. The leader of the traditional rulers, Igwe Robert Eze, Okofia VI, usually announces the date in a meeting of Dunukofia National Congress This year, Orira Ndi Eze fell on August 30. It was followed the next day by celebration by Ndi Ichies (titled holders) and the general public. The third day which is end of the festival is devoted to courtesy calls and paying of homage by in-laws, friends, relations and others who usually partake in eating the chickens and animals slaughtered to celebrate the festival. Usually each year, a community within the clan is charged with the responsibility of ensuring a hitch free celebration. For instance this year, it was the turn of Nawgu community. It was the responsibility of the community to place radio television and newspaper announcements for Iwa ji Dunukofia. The community is also charged with weather control to ensure that it did not rain during the festival. Failure to do these attracts a heavy fine. In the olden days, Dunukofia stood out as the only clan who celebrated the new yam same day but not anymore. Former Chairman of Anambra Central Tradional Rulers Ciuncil, Igwe Dr. Emeka Ilouno told Daily Independent that Dunukofia set the pace in this but now others are copying that. He said: “As of today it is not only Dunukofia that do it together. Dunukofia set the pace and others are copying. Anambra South traditional rulers agreed to do it together from this year. “Anambra State also wants to do it together and are reaching out to other states in Igbo land with people in the diaspora since it is accepted that only Igbo people celebrate New Yam. “We are wooing other states to see if we can have one for the entire Igbos both at home and in the Diaspora so that when it is now done wherever the Igbo man is he will do it. We want to promote it as a cultural event for Igbo race and see whether we can place it in world tourism map because it is universally accepted that only Igbo celebrate new yam”. This year, in celebrating their new yam the people of Nawgu gathered at their Igwe’s Palace and playground of Community Primary School to pay homage to their ruler. Canons were fired early in the morning followed by breaking of traditional kola nuts to announce the beginning of the festival. As a Christian and in fact a knight of the Catholic Church, Igwe Okaa-Onwuogu began with a mass celebrated by a former parish priest of St. Michael’s parish, Nawgu, Reverend Father Adolphus Chukwuka, who said in his homily that all good things come from God.