BENIN – Edo State Government has finally conceded to the demands of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) for improved working conditions of service in the state. It would be recalled that the union had in a protest letter, gave the state government three-week strike notice over poor conditions of services of its members. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The union also protested against what it called usurpation of functions of the state Ministry of Education by the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), for fixing September 2, 2019, resumption date for teachers in the 2019/2020 academic session, against September 9, 2019, fixed by the ministry. In a 7-point communiqué issued after its meeting with the state government, the union said the government has agreed to implement all its demands. The communiqué dated September 2, 2019, signed by Pius Okhueleigbe, Chairman and Moni Modesty Itua, Assistant Secretary-General respectively, made available to newsmen in Benin City, commended the media for being a worthy partner in the union’s struggle for better conditions of service for teachers in the state. According to the statement, the state wing expresses appreciation to the executive Governor of Edo State, Mr Godwin Obaseki, for his demonstration of unending love for improvements in the welfare and conditions of service of teachers in Edo State, as well as ensuring a massive, but positive turn around in the fortunes of the education sector in the state, under his watch. The communique added that the state government has directed the payment of all outstanding Edo Best stipends owed teachers by SUBEB not later than September 2019, payment of 2013 to 2015 promotion arrears owed teachers of Oredo and Uhunmwode local government areas. It also disclosed that the state government has agreed to release subventions to school heads as at when due starting from the arrears of the 2018/2019 third term. Others were the recruitment of personnel into the teaching service in the state among others. The union, however, passed a vote of confidence on the governor, the state commissioner for education, state Head of service for finding preventive and curative solutions to the imbroglio.