Despite teething issues at the beginning, Nigeria’s online retail market seems to have survived the heat as it has contributed immensely to the growth of e-commerce market which currently worth $13 billion, and this is an indication of a gradual adoption of online marketplace by consumers. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, IKECHI NZEAKOR and ANDREW UTULU write; A recent report by McKinsey & Company said that Online retail trading has quietly grown into a significant economic force in Africa’s most populous nation and that in the coming years, retail sales will become an even bigger part of Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The report added that Nigeria has an enviable supply of the world’s most valuable commodity, and the country’s oil and gas sector has been the key driver of the economy for many decades, constituting more than 14 per cent of Nigeria’s GDP and 95 per cent of its foreign exchange earnings. But today, new engines are helping to power Africa’s most populous nation. Consumer-facing industries have quietly grown into a significant economic force and are poised to continue growing. Over the last decade, the Nigerian telecommunications and banking industries have experienced rapid expansion, serving pent-up demand and a fast growing middle class. “We expect that the next chapter of emerging middle class growth will be in the retail sector. Fueled by a new generation of Nigerian consumers, wholesale and retail sales are already the third largest contributors to Nigeria’s GDP, contributing 16 percent to the total, albeit mostly through informal markets. “We estimate that between 2008 and 2020, there is a $40billion growth opportunity in food and consumer goods in Nigeria, the highest of any African nation. “Despite the fact that Nigeria’s GDP per capita is $1,443, we believe that formal retail chains have a significant opportunity to capture the growth in this market”, the report stated. Significantly, Nigeria was ranked second in Africa in the 2018 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) Business-to-Consumer E-commerce Index ranked ecommerce uptake in Africa, and 75 globally. Leading Africa packs include Mauritius coming first followed by South Africa third, Tunisia, Morocco and Ghana coming in that order. According to the report Nigeria ranks second, largely thanks to a significant increase in postal reliability as measured by the Universal Postal Union (UPU). As Africa’s largest B2C e-commerce market (in terms of both number of shoppers and revenue), reliable delivery of products is critical. Globally, Netherlands took the lead having improved from fourth place in 2017. According to the McKinsey report, some key factors were responsible for growth being witnessed in the sector. One of such is Nigeria’s growing GDP.  The Real GDP (2005 based) is growing at an accelerated rate of 7 per cent (compound annual growth rate) and is expected to hit $294 billion by 2020 , up from $178 billion in 2012. This compares to a growth rate of just 4 percent in South Africa. Another significant factor was the growth in the country’s middle class. It has been established that one out of every four Africans is a Nigerian and the trend toward a more prosperous consumer class is unmistakable. Although 90 per cent of Nigerians have limited discretionary income, there is an important and growing opportunity within a subset of the population. Given the country’s large population estimated at around 180 million and 37 million households, the portion of people defined as middle and upper class represent a sizeable pool of potential consumers. “A significant 11 to 18 per cent of urban households – numbering over 2 million –have purchasing power and annual incomes over $10,000, which puts them in the modest affluent class. Half of the country’s growth in wealth will come from these households. Also driving consumer spending is the growing presence of women working outside the home, a trend that’s prompting an increased demand for foods offering convenience and time savings. “We are already seeing a decline in the consumption of complex ethnic dishes, which often take more effort and time to prepare. Many workers prefer to buy their lunch out rather than bring it from home’. Amidst the challenges of limited internet connectivity and unreliable connections, a new Nielsen Global Connected Commerce Survey has found that Nigerians’ use of mobile devices to make online retail purchases is significantly higher than global purchasing rates across several categories. This points to the fact that an e-commerce experience is the new retail reality, as digital devices enable Nigerian consumers to shop wherever and whenever they choose. These insights stem from the Nielsen Global Connected Commerce Survey which polled more than 13,000 consumers in 26 countries including Nigeria; based only on the behaviour of respondents with online access. “The shift towards mobile purchasing reflects a larger trend that is occurring in retail: proximity shopping. Across all regions, smaller format stores that are close to work or home are growing fastest, and nothing offers greater convenience or proximity than the mobile device in consumers’ pockets,” says Harsh Sarda, managing director of Nielsen Africa Retailer Services and E-Commerce. “As more consumers adopt an ‘on-demand lifestyle’ and turn to mobile devices to shop, the most successful retailers will be those that optimise and differentiate their mobile experience to enhance the in-store experience of shoppers, using ‘personalisation’ to adapt to the specific realities of each market.” The survey found that three quarters of Nigerian respondents (77%), who are online or connected have used their laptop and 46% their smartphone, to purchase packaged grocery food; 69% and 48% respectively to buy beauty and personal care products, 67% and 42% for fashion-related products and 52% and 46% for restaurant deliveries or meal delivery services. Of the categories they have ever purchased online, 60% of Nigerians said fashion (e.g. clothing, bags, jewellery) with the same number citing IT and mobile (e.g. mobile phones, computers, tablets, IT accessories, etc.). This was followed by travel (e.g. hotels, flights, car rental, travel deals) at 39% and books/music/stationary at 38%. In terms of the types of activities potential shoppers engage in online, 50% of Nigerian respondents said they looked up product information, followed by 32% who said they used it to compare prices and 31% for product reviews. Nigeria’s retail market is both capturable and too large to ignore. Companies that act now to build a winning business model will be getting in on the ground floor of one of Africa’s biggest growth opportunities. McKinsey &Co report made these declarations as it identified some insights that companies will need to take into consideration when starting or expanding their retail online business in Nigeria Nigerians are very optimistic about their future.  When asked if they think they will be better off financially two years from now, 74 per cent say yes, which is one of the most positive responses to this question among African countries. Nigerians are price sensitive and love deals.  Intuitively, price is important to the majority of African consumers, but it’s particularly crucial for Nigerians, especially when it comes to food. When choosing a grocery store, 21 percent of Nigerians say they are willing to sacrifice store environment for low prices, compared to 16 per cent of South Africans and 12 percent of Ethiopians. As a result, Nigerians are apt to spend a lot of time ensuring they get the lowest prices on groceries. Rice is the top product used as a benchmark for checking prices. Upper income Nigerians also look at red meat and beverages. But it’s not just about price. Brand loyalty is high among Nigerians. Seventy percent say they are brand loyal versus 59 percent in Africa as a whole. For higher income consumers this is driven by the perceived quality of brands – 51 per cent of these shoppers say that well-known brands are always of higher quality. For lower income consumers, brand loyalty tends to be driven by unwillingness to try new things. Despite such loyalty, Nigerians are open to buying store brands, although the perception of poor quality and limited choice often holds them back. Fashion, comfort and quality also play a role in driving the choices Nigerians make in stores, especially when shopping for apparel. Sixty-nine percent of respondents ranked fashion as one of the top three reasons for choosing a clothing item. Those ranking comfort and high quality in the top three totaled 63 and 60 percent respectively. Also when shopping for apparel, Nigerians view local brands, which exist at all economic levels, as just as fashionable as international brands. Only 11 percent say they think that international brands are more fashionable than local brands, versus 29 percent in Africa as a whole. When shopping for food, freshness is a key concern. Forty-six percent of respondents agreed with the statement: “My main concern when buying food is how fresh it is.” This is understandable in a country where a third of the land is arable and where the tropical climate allows for the growing of many different types of fruits, vegetables and other edible crops. Nigerians desire a convenient, well laid out, modern shopping experience.  Although price is important, some Nigerians prioritize modern shopping experiences. Said one shopper: “In these modern stores] you don’t have to sweat under the sun just because you want to buy things. This place is well air-conditioned; items are well arranged with their prices, so you don’t need to waste time haggling like in the open market.” Higher income consumers are particularly interested in stores with a wide range of products and a comfortable environment, and are willing to pay for these features. Lower income consumers primarily choose stores based on price offers, but item selection and in-store experience are still important. Regional, age and consumer differences must be understood because across different regions there is a significant attitudinal difference that influence Nigerian’s purchasing decisions. For example, residents of Lagos are more than twice as likely to try new things as their peers in Kano (45 percent of Nigerians responded positively to this question vs. 18 percent of Kano residents). Lagos residents are also more price conscious, with 55 per cent favoring low prices over a large selection of products, as compared to 20 percent choosing low prices in Abuja and 17 per cent in Kano. In Abuja, only 14 per cent of consumers prefer to wear traditional dress over Western clothing. This preference is higher in Lagos (30 percent) and Kano (31 percent). Residents of Abuja are most likely to view clothes as a statement about who they are, with 64 percent agreeing with this statement, compared to just 39 percent in Lagos. Comparing this type of trade to conventional trade, Mrs Mary James, a business woman, said online retail trading is very interesting, adding that it makes transactions easier and can reach more people simultaneously. According to her, when one has a shop in a particular location, it is only the customers that pass there that will see your goods. She explained further  that online trading  opens the door to even customers that do not reside in the state you are running your business or businesses. “Even customers abroad can access your products and patronize you. People who are not even in Nigeria can order for your products and you find a means of delivering it to them.  Not just people in your locality, especially where your shop or business place is located, where customers comes and accidentally sees your shop. That is the difference.” According to her, for instance, she said that like someone who is on social media with over three million followers to five million followers, what it invariably means is that you are showing between three to five million people your products simultaneously unlike when you are on the street. “I think that is why many people are combining the two. Meaning they can sell on the streets and sell online also. Either way, you make profits. Also, speaking on the advantages and disadvantages of online retail trading, David Okeowo, a fashion designer, said that everything that have advantages will also have disadvantages. According to him, there are situations where the sellers do not have the needed quantity of products that can reach a large number of people, just like a starter with large number of followers on facebook or instagram, and you start getting orders immediately and under two days, the person is out of stock. “This becomes a challenge because maybe the person just started the business and did not know he or she could break even and have such large number of buyers.  So this becomes a disadvantage. If people are ordering and expect the goods to come immediately, and you cannot meet up, it becomes a disadvantage. Customers will no longer take you serious.” He said that another disadvantage is lack of cost effectiveness. According to him, the cost of doing business will be higher if you are dealing with customers far away from where your business location is. “For instance, if you are selling a dress for N5,000 in your business location in Lagos and some customers in Abuja, or Kaduna, are asking for that same dress, there will be price differential from the price you earlier advertised. The selling price will go up as a result of transportation cost, as such you have to wait for more orders from that state before delivery for it to be cost effective.” Further speaking on disadvantages, Okeowo said: “Another disadvantage is that because a lot of people are fraudulent and have defrauded many, through online sales. You order for colour green of a particular dress, they end up supplying purple.  So, a lot of people do not have trust on traders to do their business online. They hardly trust them. As a result, this has adverse effect on other genuine retail online traders. Internet Fraud Fears Mark Essien, a software developer, said for many years, any mention of Nigeria and the internet was met with scepticism because of worries about cybercrime. This has made it hard for local companies to gain the trust of the public, both abroad and within the country, although they are making attempts to overcome this. “There are definitely technological challenges in Nigeria that are not faced in other countries,” Mr Essien says. “Payment systems are very manual – cards don’t work very well. A lot of our customers prefer paying by bank deposits. “The logistics network is very poor across Nigeria but a lot of these problems also represent opportunities that people can solve and create big companies out of,” he adds. Customers can pay for their goods on delivery, in cash or by card, eliminating the fear of online fraud. Barely seven years after launch, DealDey, Nigeria’s leading e-commerce discount and shopping store founded by Nigeria’s entrepreneur and Tech Mogul, Sim Shagaya, has reportedly closed its business. The company closed shop around December and has let go of its workers. The news came about a year after Konga also founded by Shagaya, was acquired by the owners of Yudala for an undisclosed amount. This shows that the several efforts by investors to re-position the platform failed. The company, founded in 2011, remained the leading go-to website for deals until 2015 when it started having issues. In 2015, the company raised $5 million in a Series B funding from Kinnevik which was its original investor. After raising funds, the company laid off almost 60 per cent of its workers in a drive which was perceived to be a way of cutting cost. During this period, merchants on its platform also complained about DealDey owing them proceeds from their sales. In order to save DealDey which was already losing its grip, Ringier Africa Deals Group a joint venture (JV) company between Swiss Ringier Africa AG and South African Silvertree Internet Holdings  Ltd acquired the company for an undisclosed amount in 2016. However, in 2017, Ringier exited the JV to focus more on classifieds, publishing and marketing while Silvertree took full control of the company. Apart from DealDey’s closure, Nigeria also witnessed the exit of a number of classified websites, including olx.com and efritin.com, both citing the high cost of doing business in the country as the reason for their exit. One of the leading job portals in Nigeria Careers24 has closed down its operations in Nigeria in March 2019. The company which opened shop in 2014 closed because it failed to gain the expected traction in that market. Looking at the trend of some online platforms shutting down businesses in Nigeria and the ups and downs faced by others, it raises the question of what goes wrong in the space. Is there an issue with the business model currently adopted by players in the industry? It also begs the question of the country’s readiness for online commerce, which increasingly seems to be in its early stage of development after almost a decade. All these are happening at a time of the fourth industrial revolution, an age driven by the digital space which includes online business, transactions, activities and interactions. When we talk about online businesses the first company that comes to mind is Amazon, which has positioned itself as the most valuable public company in the world. The 24-year-old company valued at $800 billion accounted for roughly half of all e-Commerce sales in the U.S.  and about 90 per cent of Amazon’s revenue comes from retail sales. The success story of Amazon over the years has been a major driver of the evolution of online business in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. However, the closure of these companies indicates there are deep issues that players in the industry might be overlooking. One such may be the business model. The business models of the Classifieds and e-tailing industry has been affected by several challenges such as acceptable and viable means of transaction, trust, as well as the mode of payment. A lot of Nigerians still prefer payment on delivery and buying at a physical store. According to a research done by the Fletcher School and Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth, out of the $301 billion of funds flows from consumers to businesses in Nigeria, 98 percent is still cash-based. The closure of these platforms can also be blamed on the recent rise of social media vendors such as Instagram and WhatsApp businesses. A lot of Nigerians now prefer to deal directly with the vendors rather than through these platforms which serve as a market for the vendors and the customers. People now have the option of comparing prices between the platforms and the social media vendors as well as damaging the reputation of a vendor who sells fake products online. Most of these vendors also prefer this seemingly easier and cheaper way of selling. This is a huge loss to the companies after spending so much money on salaries, office and warehouse rent. A lot of e-Commerce platforms have also incurred huge losses from damages due to the country’s poor infrastructure. It is worthy to note that good infrastructure has been critical in the growth of the countries where e-Commerce have thrived.