ASABA – The Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Asaba, Delta State capital on Saturday nullified the election of Chief James Manager of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the senator representing Delta South Senatorial District. The immediate-past Governor of Delta State, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan (APC), had brought the petition against
Manager. The tribunal ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct a rerun election within 90 days in the eight local government areas which made up the senatorial district. They are Isoko South, Isoko North, Warri South West, Bomadi, Burutu, Warri North, Warri South West and Patani Local Government Areas. In the petition, Uduaghan had alleged over-voting in the district, massive ballot-box stuffing and distorted result sheets, which the tribunal claimed the petitioner proved through video clips, oral and written submissions. Justice O.O. Onyeabo, who presided over the petition, while ordering a rerun, said the petitioner proved the issue of over voting beyond reasonable doubt and resolved the matter in favour of Uduaghan Counsel to Manager, Selekeowei Larry (SAN), who spoke after the judgment, said he would consult his client on the net line of action, saying they might file an appeal to get
the judgment reversed. Similarly, PDP counsel, Fedule Limughan, said he was totally disappointed, but stressed that they had formidable ground to appeal the case. In another judgment, Suit No. EPT/DT/SEN/01/2019, at another tribunal sitting in the state on the Delta Central Senatorial District, the Deputy Senate President, Chief Ovie Omo-Agege (APC) was affirmed the winner of the election in the senatorial district. The tribunal threw out the petition filed by Evelyn Oboro of PDP, saying the she was unable to prove her allegation of irregularities. In another tribunal sitting on Suit No. EPT/DT/ SEN/13/2019, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (PDP), defeated Hon. Doris Uboh of the APC In his verdict, Justice E. I.
Ngene, said INEC was right to have declared Nwaoboshi as winner of the Delta North senatorial election, having polled the highest vote cast, and thereby upheld his victory. He blamed Uboh for failing to prove her allegation of over-voting and padding of result sheets.