OSOGBO – The Osun State residents, on Tuesday, applauded the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola for demonstrating a clear and practical commitment to healthcare provisions and workers’ welfare. This is even as they have promised to vote overwhelmingly for the governor and the party in future elections, as a show of appreciation for the good work the governor is doing. The commendation is coming when another 10 PHCs were inaugurated just three of the ten renovated centres were located in Ilesa alone. Speaking on behalf of the residents of Ijesaland at the inauguration of the newly renovated Primary Healthcare Centre, at Imo, Ilesa, prominent persons in the area, including former Health Minister, Prof. Isaac Adewole, Chief Kunle Odeyemi and Engr. Remi Omowaiye, who is the state’s Supervisor for Works, said the administration has so far shown that what the state witnessed in the last administration in terms of development, will be small compared to what it will witness in the present administration. The state government had on Monday commenced the inauguration of 25 Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs), which are part of the already completed 100 PHCs across the state. Prof. Adeowole who appealed to Ijesa people to ensure that they speak loudly with their votes in 2022 in support of the governor and the All Progressives Congress (APC), further said, “I said it yesterday that Osun has become the leading light in the health sector as reflected in the huge commitment that the state had made to reposition the sector for the optimum use and benefit of the citizenry. “I said it yesterday and I am repeating it that no government in Nigeria has embarked on the construction and renovation of 332 PHCs at a time as being done by the present administration in the state. “This is a rare feat. This is also a welcome development targeted to support the health needs of the people across the nooks and crannies of the state. ” On his part, Chief Odeyemi applauded the administration for the priority given to the critical sectors of the economy since the assumption office.