Syrian pistachio farmer Said Ahmad stated that for three years in a row, live fire from Turkish forces is terrifying western Kobani’s growers of Aleppine pistachios. Speaking to Al-Monitor Aug. 22, Ahmad, from the western countryside of Kobani in the eastern Aleppo governorate, said that the Turkish army is shooting at the growers to prevent them from reaching their lands in Kobani, on the Turkish-Syrian border, where their wheat and pistachio crops are languishing unharvested. Ahmad said that three days ago, the Turkish troops opened fire on his uncle in the western Kobani village of Slaim. He escaped injury but was prevented from harvesting his crop, Al-Monitor reports. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said that the Turkish soldiers have fired live ammunition on the village of Ali Shar in eastern Kobani and Zor Mghawer village in western Kobani on a daily basis for years. Many families have had to abandon their orchards and other agricultural lands in the villages bordering Turkey for fear of joining the many farmers already killed. Khalil Shikho, a pistachio farmer with 20 years of experience from the western Kobani countryside, explained to Al-Monitor that pistachio trees require a great deal of attention and care from the time they are planted until they start bearing fruit at the age of eight. Shikho has more than 5,000 of the finest and best-known varieties of pistachio trees, he said, “such as the Turkish and Assyrian pistachios, for which Kobani is known.” Shikho said this year’s crop has been abundant. Hammoud al-Ais, from the village of Asaliya in the western countryside of Manbij, eastern Aleppo, said that there are more than 20 varieties of Aleppine pistachios, including the Achoury, pink, Batoury, Nab al-jamal, Lazwardi, Ajamy and Oleimi. He explained that pistachio trees produce in biennial cycles, saying, “Though a tree may bear up to 150 kilograms of pistachios a year, its production drops to 25 kilograms the next year.” The production of pistachios in Syria was estimated at 65,000 tons in 2010. Hassan Amr, an agricultural engineer from Qamishli, told Al-Monitor Aug. 25 that the moderate climate and irrigated land make the areas along the Euphrates River the third most important parts of northern Syria after Idlib and Aleppo when it comes to cultivating fruit, olives and pistachios. 