Stephen Ubimago;Tony Ezimakor;Samuel Ogidan;Paschal Njoku;Innocent Oweh Lagos / Abuja  – Lawyers have stated that the decision of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, which on Wednesday upheld President Muhammadu Buhari’s reelection at the February 23 presidential poll, did not come to them as a surprise. Noting that the ruling was predictable, as it followed well-established precedents, the lawyers maintained that there was nothing “recondite,” new or extraordinary about the ruling. This is because scarcely has the court upturned the return of a presidential candidate by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). They, however, noted that if the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, are still aggrieved with the tribunal’s verdict, they could still take the matter a step higher at the Supreme Court. They, however, couldn’t guarantee that the verdict will be different at the apex court. According to Adesina Ogunlana, the immediate past chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ikeja branch, the outcome was predictable because it would be difficult for the court to depart from well-established precedents. He said, “I already knew the outcome. So I felt people were just wasting their time watching the television. Was it to see whether the tribunal will shock the world with a decision that will depart from the norm? “The fact is that there is no historical antecedent where a Presidential Election Petition Tribunal gave judgment in favour of the petitioner. “I don’t see how you can defeat a sitting president in court. There are many underlying issues and considerations like policy and what not, which the judges put into account when faced with a presidential election petition. “That is why I also felt it was otiose that the whole thing would be televised. They were televising a melodrama. It is also for this reason that I am of the view that if former President Jonathan had gone to court in 2015, he would have won. “The pattern is well-established. Our judges have not shown they are courageous and activist enough to depart from the norm. “We are talking about a well-established judicial precedent, a precedent which is re-established and re-confirmed every four years. “That that does not suggest that Atiku cannot seek further redress at the Supreme Court. There is, however, no guarantee whatsoever that the verdict of the apex court would be different from the tribunal ruling.” Malachy Ugwummadu, President, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), opined that court cases are open contest, just like elections, for they must produce a winner and a loser. According to him, at the presidential level of electoral contest, the court hardly departs from the electoral verdict itself. He stressed that the issues raised at the tribunal were not “recondite” or extraordinary, because they are typical. He said, “Most of the issues raised today are not recondite. They are already well-established in law. “Election is a contest in which there must be a winner and loser. That is also what has happened today in court. “All we can do is to commend the judex, who sat as the tribunal judges, including the laymen who listened as the judgment was being read for six hours. It shows the extent of industry that went into it. “We also congratulate the litigants for going to court, and not taking the laws into their hands. “But there is one more level. PDP says they will take the matter to the Supreme Court. It will help to further strengthen the jurisprudence of election petition.” Speaking in a similar vein, Olusina Fasugba, says it is typically difficult at the level of presidential election petition for the petitioner to successfully adduce evidence sufficient to show that the declared winner of an election won by electoral fraud, since the standard of proof is proof beyond reasonable doubt. “For the petitioner, the preponderance of evidence adduced will determine how the case would go,” he said. “The petitioner’s case is strictly predicated on the evidence adduced by him. So what informed the judgment is the court’s evaluation of the facts and evidence adduced by parties. “It is within the discretion of the tribunal judges to decide the weight they will attach to the evidence the parties adduce to prove their respective cases. “Don’t forget that the petitioner is claiming that he is the one that actually won the election or that the respondent won the election by electoral fraud, which itself is a crime. “If he is alleging crime against the respondent, then the standard of proof is proof beyond reasonable doubt. “The onus is, therefore, on the petitioner to adduce sufficient, overwhelming evidence to prove his case. “It is within the court’s discretion to decide whether or not the petitioner has adduced enough evidence to prove his case beyond reasonable doubt, as to warrant the nullification of the election. “So, by and large, the judgment is sound. There is no judgment that would not be fraught with issues. “If Atiku is still aggrieved with it, he is at liberty to go higher. You can never predict what will happen at the Supreme Court. “Every case will stand or fall on its merit, based on the evidence adduced by the parties.” PDP Rejects Verdict, Heads To Supreme Court Less than 30 minutes the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal gave its verdict, dismissing the petition of Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday rejected the judgment and heads to the Supreme Court. The party said that it completely rejects the judgment of the tribunal, describing it as provocative, barefaced subversion of justice and direct assault on the integrity of the nation’s justice system. The party said that it is particularly shocked that the tribunal failed to point to justice despite the flawless evidence laid before it, showing that President Muhammadu Buhari was not only unqualified to contest the election but also did not score the majority of valid votes at the polls. Reacting to the judgment, PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it “finds as bewildering that a court of law could validate a clear case of perjury and declaration of false information in a sworn affidavit, as firmly established against President Muhammadu Buhari, even in the face of incontrovertible evidence.” The party also said that it is also rudely shocked that the court took over the roles of the respondents’ lawyers who clearly abandoned their pleadings by refusing to call evidence in defence of the petition, adding, “The court raked up all manner of excuses to make up for the yawning gaps occasioned by the total absence of any evidence from the respondents. “Nigerians and the international community watched in utter disbelief when the tribunal ruled that one need not provide a copy or certified true copy of educational certificate such individual claimed to possess, contrary to established proof of claims of certification.” The party noted as strange that the court even went ahead to provide rationalisations in favour of President Buhari, even when all hard facts before it shows that he did not possess the claimed educational certificate and that the army was not in possession of his WAEC certificate as claimed in the affidavit he deposed to in his presidential nomination form. The PDP also described as shocking that the court approved the flawed declaration of President Buhari as the winner of the election despite evidence to show the perpetration of illegalities, manipulations, alterations and subtraction of valid votes freely given to Atiku Abubakar by Nigerians. “Indeed, the pervading melancholic atmosphere across our nation since the verdict is a direct indication that the judgment has not fulfilled the desires and expectations of Nigerians,” it said. The PDP, however, encouraged Nigerians to remain calm and not to lose hope or surrender to despondency or self-help, “as our lawyers are upbeat in obtaining justice at the Supreme Court. “This is more so as the tribunal itself admitted that there are several errors in the judgment.” In his reaction, the vice presidential candidate of the PDP, Peter Obi, said that “the judgement of today is not about President Buhari or Atiku Abubakar, not at all, it’s about the practice of democracy in Nigeria, the rule of law. It’s about the future of our country. It’s about the suffering masses whose future is being toyed with.” Reacting in his personal capacity, the national chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, said, “We have heard the judgment, our legal team will study it and we take it from there.” Also reacting, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) rejected the verdict, describing it as law turned upside down and an insult and provocation to Nigerians. CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, said, “From the totality of the judgment, the Court of Appeal PEPT panel has lost the rare opportunity presented to it by the petition of the consensus opposition candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to put an end to electoral fraud, leadership incompetence and the imposition of an unfit leader on the people. “By their judgment today (Wednesday), majority of Nigerians who had believed, though erroneously, that the judiciary was indeed independent have been brazenly awakened to the fact and correct belief that the presidency had successfully hijacked the judiciary and Nigerians can only expect judgments and not justice. “All credible observer groups both local and international were unanimous in their verdict that the election was below the standard of the 2015 and was massively rigged in favour of the president. The Court of Appeal wasted the opportunity and have by so doing endorsed the insecurity in the land, mismanagement of national resources, electoral fraud, forgery of documents and certificates submitted to INEC and indeed threatened the very foundations of our democracy. Ruling, Victory For Rule Of Law— APC Meanwhile, APC has described the decision of the tribunal as victory for the rule of law, hailing the panel for dismissing the petition filed by Atiku Abubakar. APC said that the unanimous legal affirmation, the electoral victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo are without question as it congratulated them and Nigerians and especially members of the party for the landmark judgment. Congratulating the judiciary as well, APC said it has never been perturbed about the petition filed by PDP which mainly hinged on educational qualification of President Buhari. It further said the victory is an endorsement of the work the president is doing regarding the war against corruption, insecurity and provision of infrastructure. The statement signed by Lanre Issa-Onilu read in part: “The APC congratulates the judiciary for refusing to succumb to the opposition party’s subterfuge. We note the painstaking efforts and thoroughness of the justices of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal in arriving at their decision. Today’s judgment, no doubt, would go down in the annals of our nation as the longest and detailed, spanning almost 10 hours. “The judgment by the five-member validates the decision of most Nigerians to do away with the past as expressed in their overwhelming votes in the 2019 elections. “The PDP and Atiku’s petition was largely hinged on educational qualification of President Muhammadu Buhari and tales of an Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) server and allegations of electronic transmission of election results. This was rightly dismissed by the tribunal for lacking in merit. “From the outset, our party was not perturbed over the PDP and Atiku’s petition, which will go down in Nigeria’s history as the most frivolous in the history of election petition. In fact our position has now been justified that the PDP and Atiku’s petition was a complete waste of time. In their puerile efforts, they insisted on taking the country on a circus and wild goose chase. “Going forward, APC’s victory at the presidential polls and the election tribunal represents our collective desire as a people to remain focused on the progressive growth and development of our country’s economy, fight against corruption, and providing security. “Consequently, we have taken a bold step by rescuing our nation from the satanic era of PDP, when our collective interests were being corruptly traded among a few pillagers.” I Knew Judgment Will Be In My Favour— President The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, sitting at the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division, on Wednesday had declared President Muhammadu Buhari as winner of the 2019 presidential election. In a judgment that started by 9:30a.m and ended by 6:05p.m, chairman of the tribunal, Justice Mohammed Garba, dismissed the petition of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, challenging the declaration of Buhari as winner of the election. Justice Garba said the petitioners failed to prove any grounds for their petition. Justice Garba said: “I have come to an inevitable and unavoidable conclusion that the petitioners failed to discharge the onus of burden of proof placed on them. Consequently, the petition is dismissed in its entirety.” Other members of the tribunal included Justices Abdul Aboki, Peter Ige, Joseph Ikyegh, and Samuel Oseji. In the judgment, the tribunal held that Buhari (2nd respondent) was not only highly qualified but also eminently qualified to contest the February 23, 2019 presidential election. The tribunal noted that the curriculum vitae of Buhari as submitted by the petitioners “contains impressive credentials to enable him contest the presidential election, even if it was primary school certificate he used in joining the Nigerian Army in 1961”. Justice Garba stated that the statement by the Nigerian army entitled, ‘Army Speaks on Buhari’s Certificate’, concerning Buhari’s certificate did not support Atiku’s petition. The tribunal held that the statement by the then army spokesman, Major General Olajide Olaniyi, apparently showed that Buhari obtained secondary school certificate in 1961, and obtained credit pass in English Language, Geography, History, Health Science, and Hausa Language. According to Justice Garba, “If indeed the 2nd respondent did not possess this WASC record, where did the Nigerian army get the result of the credit passes? Going by the provisions of section 131, 137 and 318 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, that border on educational qualifications of a candidate, the tribunal found out that Buhari was duly qualified to run for the presidency. The tribunal noted that a lot of hues and cries had been made in respect of the 2nd respondent’s educational qualification, but insisted that the petitioners failed to prove their claim. Consequently, the panel discountenanced all depositions made by the petitioners in respect of Buhari’s certificate issue. After painstakingly and critically evaluating the petitioners’ issues one and two that border on Buhari’s educational qualification, the tribunal was of the opinion that the issues were of no moment. The tribunal also laid to rest the issue of electronic transmission of election results by INEC. According to the tribunal, “The method of collation and transmission according to the Electoral Act is manual at every level. “There is no provision in the exhibits that the results were transmitted electronically in the 2019 election. “The petitioners have failed to establish the claim of the electronic transmission of results at all levels of the election. “Issues one and two of the petitioners are hereby resolved against them.” On the findings of the tribunal in respect of the INEC’s website, the chairman stated: “On the result on an INEC website, as presented by the petitioners, it is my view that whatever results you claim to have gotten belong to a whistleblower. “It is possible to use scientific method to alter data on a website. “Therefore, the petitioners relied on information from a third party, and the evidence, therefore, is unreliable and unverifiable because it amounts to hearsay. “Hearsay evidence has no probative value and therefore is inadmissible in law.” He stated further that the claims made by PW 3,4,16,17,36 and 59 could not be relied upon as they lacked probative value. Similarly, Justice Garba ruled that Atiku Abubakar could not prove his allegation of widespread electoral malpractices in the 11 focal states listed in his petition. The tribunal held that the petitioners did not disclose the number of votes awarded to President Muhammadu Buhari, insisting that it was a court of law and could not allocate figures to the petitioners when they failed to do so to substantiate their allegations. In addition, the tribunal held that Atiku failed woefully to prove that Buhari did not score majority of the votes, adding that the petitioners’ star witness, Osita Chidoka, the national collation officer of Atiku, admitted while giving evidence that he did not visit any of the ward, local, and state polling units. Earlier, the tribunal dismissed a preliminary objection by the INEC, seeking the striking out of the petition filed by the PDP and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar. INEC’s motion dated May 15, was filed by its counsel, Yunus Usman (SAN). Specifically, INEC contended that the non-joining of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as a party in the petition rendered the case incompetent and therefore liable to be dismissed. But in a lead judgment, chairman of the five-man tribunal, Justice Garba, held that the non-joinder of Osinbajo could not render the petition incompetent. Justice Garba stated that the VP was only an interested party and not a necessary party, because he was chosen by the 2nd respondent, President Buhari, and the APC (3rd respondent), as a running mate. In a unanimous ruling, the tribunal held that, “the motion of the 1st respondent is not well grounded in law, it lacks merit and is hereby refused”. Also, the tribunal dismissed an application by INEC seeking the disqualification of Atiku’s counsel, Dr. Livinus Uzoukwu (SAN). INEC’S counsel, Ustaz Yunus Usman (SAN), had argued that the processes endorsed by Uzoukwu were invalid because he was not a lawyer. Justice Garba reasoned that the March 18 list of counsel and list of witnesses and other processes filed before the tribunal were valid and competently signed by a legal practitioner whose name was on the Supreme Court of Nigeria’s roll of legal practitioners. The tribunal noted that the petitioners’ counsel, in his counter affidavit, proved beyond doubt that Uzoukwu is a legal practitioner. Justice Garba said: “I have noted the processes. It is glaring that there is a seal of the Nigerian Bar Association with the name of Dr. Levi Uzoukwu (SAN) on them. The petitioners stated that no other person that was called to Bar in 1982 bore the name Livinus Ifeanyichukwu Uzoukwu. It was also averred by Atiku that Uzoukwu and INEC’s counsel, Yunus Usman, were called together to the inner bar in 1999. However, the tribunal noted that INEC’s lawyer did not controvert the averments in the petitioners’ counter affidavit. “Nothing was said of the motion by the 1st respondent in its reply on points of law filed on May 6,” the tribunal held. Meanwhile, the tribunal struck out the paragraphs wherein the petitioners alleged that there was arrest, harassment, intimidation, etc by the Nigerian police. Justice Garba said it would be partial to decide the issue without hearing from those accused of electoral violence. Atiku and the PDP had, on March 18, dragged INEC, President Buhari, and the APC to the tribunal, wherein they challenged the declaration of Buhari as winner of the presidential election. The petitioners had claimed massive rigging of the poll in favour of Buhari, and therefore prayed for cancellation of the election, citing irregularities, malpractices, and non-qualification of Buhari to contest the election. In a bid to establish his petition, Atiku during the hearing, opened his case on July 1, called 62 witnesses, tendered several documents and video clips before the tribunal. He closed his case on July 19. On his part, Buhari opened his defence on July 30, and called 7 witnesses. He tendered documents to prove that he genuinely defeated Atiku at the poll before closing his case on August 12. Surprisingly, INEC (1st respondent) and APC (3rd respondent) did not call any witness but elected to align with the evidence of the petitioners’ witnesses to support their defence. Buhari was declared winner of the presidential election held on February 23 with 15,191,847 votes, while Abubakar, his closest challenger, polled 11,262,978 votes, according to the results declared by INEC. Atiku and the PDP had equally alleged that Buhari used “fundamental falsehood” to secure clearance from INEC to participate in the poll. Atiku, in his final address, insisted that Buhari, as candidate of the APC lied on oath in his form CF001 presented to INEC before standing for the presidential election. In the final address presented on his behalf by his lead counsel, Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), Atiku drew the attention of the tribunal to a portion of his INEC form where he claimed to have three different certificates, comprising primary school leaving certificate, WAEC certificate, and officer’s cadet certificate. The petitioners said it was shocking and surprising that “no provisional certificate, no certified true copy of the certificates, no photocopy of certificates, and in fact no electronic version of any of the certificates was presented by Buhari throughout the hearing of the petition to dispute the claim of the petitioners”. They added: “More worrisome is the fact that Buhari’s own witness, Major General Paul Tafa (rtd), who joined the Nigerian army with him in 1962, told the tribunal that they were never asked to submit their certificates to the Nigerian Army Board as claimed by Buhari in his form CF001.” However, INEC, represented by Yunus Usman (SAN), urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition with substantial cost because the electoral body conducted the election in total compliance with the Nigerian constitution and Electoral Act 2010, and urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition. Usman insisted that INEC did not transmit election results electronically because doing so was prohibited by law, and that the commission did not call any witness because there was no need to do so. In his defence, President Buhari, through his counsel, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), argued that Atiku’s petition was liable to be dismissed because it was lacking in evidence, merit, and substance, and that the petition was ill-advised and signified nothing. Olanipekun cited section 131 of the constitution which stipulated a minimum of secondary school attendance to qualify for election in Nigeria, adding that Buhari could not go beyond that, and that he did not need to tender or attach a certificate before he could get qualification for any election. He averred that there was nothing in law to persuade the tribunal to nullify the February 23 presidential election as pleaded by Atiku, and urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition with substantial cost. The APC, represented by Prince Lateef Olasunkanmi Fagbemi (SAN), in his own submission, said the petition lacked quality evidence that could warrant the nullification of the election as pleaded by the petitioners, and urged the tribunal to throw out the petition. Fagbemi told the tribunal that the petitioners called 62 witnesses only in a failed attempt to prove their allegations concerning 119,793 polling units, 8, 809 wards, and 774 local government areas and local area councils being challenged by the petitioners. He added that the witnesses were from 11 states only, including the FCT. Fagbemi further argued that the allegations of non-accreditation, invalid votes, deliberate depletion of petitioners’ votes, anomalies, over-voting, wrongful collation of results in favour of Buhari and the APC, as well as corrupt practices had been effectively denied by the two respondents as being unfounded and non-existent. Fagbemi contended that the failure to call witnesses across the states of the federation by the petitioners to establish their allegations as envisaged by law was fatal to the petition and made it liable for dismissal by the tribunal. APC stalwarts who were in court to witness the judgment included Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to President Buhari; APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole; the AGF and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN); Minister of State, Niger Delta, Festus Keyamo (SAN); Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State; Minister of Labour and Productivity, Chris Ngige; Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, and Minister of Power and Works, Raji Fashola (SAN). Others were Ali Modu Sheriff, former Borno State governor; Nuhu Ribadu; the Director General of Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu, etc. On the side of the PDP, notable chieftains of the party sighted were its national chairman, Uche Secondus; Yahaya Abubakar, who represented Atiku Abubakar, and Raymond Dokpesi. In his reaction, President Buhari described the tribunal ruling as victory for Nigerians who trooped out to overwhelmingly elect him for a second term in office. According to the president, “Good conscience fears no evil report. I was unperturbed all along, because I knew Nigerians freely gave us the mandate. We are now vindicated.” The president, who spoke through his media aide, Femi Adesina, said he dedicated the victory to God, and to Nigerians, while also commending the judiciary for “dispensing justice without fear or favour”. President Buhari extended a hand of fellowship to those who had felt aggrieved at the outcome of the election and went to court, noting that it was within their democratic rights. He stated that, with the pronouncement of the judiciary, “it is time for the country to move forward as one cohesive body, putting behind us all bickering and potential distractions over an election in which Nigerians spoke clearly and resoundingly.” Wike Congratulates Buhari Over Atiku’s Loss Meanwhile, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his victory. Wike’s congratulatory message was contained in a statement issued by Simeon Nwakaudu, his media aide. Wike urged Buhari to use his victory to work for all Nigerians, “irrespective of their political leanings.” “Governor Wike called on the president to work towards the unity of the country, noting that the country is divided,” Nwakaudu said.