Adeniyi Saliu is the Executive Chairman of Eredo Local Council Development Area in Lagos State. In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, he spoke on some of his achievements in the last two years. He called on members of the National Assembly to validate the existing Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) created by some state governors and also make necessary laws to clearly define how local governments can be created and get enlisted in the constitution automatically without any legal lacuna. Excerpts: It’s been two years since you assumed office as the Chairman of this Local Council Development Area. How has the experience been so far? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The journey has been a bit challenging, it has been eventful and it has also been filled with a lot of bumpy rides and sometimes smooth. But in all, we give thanks to Almighty God for a successful journey, for many victories that we have achieved and for many opportunities that being here has opened up to us. We are, however, confident that the next two years will be even greater than this. You have talked about challenges and successes, can you share some of the achievements recorded so far? Being here as the chairman of the LCDA has been a unique opportunity to touch a number of lives. We have been able to carry out a lot of projects. but I will just address them sector by sector. There are a quite number of things that we have done that we can’t finish mentioning in this interview. Let us start with education for instance. We have had many intervention programmes in education. We have recently done a number of back-to-school programmes, we have bought exercise books, school equipment for primary school pupils who are returning to school. We have also collaborated with a non-governmental organisation, Hope Foundation, to give school equipment to over 500 pupils from this area. We have collaborated with Atlantic Hall to award scholarship to the best of the best pupil. We also have collaborated with the Nigeria Dental Association to also take the campaign of oral care to primary schools in the area. We are currently building an eight-classroom block in Igboye after we have done the perimeter fencing of the same school. By the grace of God, when they resume, we have prepared, grant the contract and we believe they are ready now, a total of 1,000 school benches and seats for primary school pupils in the area. That is a few of our intervention in the area of education. In empowerment, we have trained over a hundred indigenes in various vocations but we have about 25 of them that we have sent of six months intensive trainings to NYC in Gbagada and they have learnt various skills, by the grace of God, come September 11, as part of activities marking our second year in office, we are going to present them with their certificates of graduation from that school; their graduation equipment and some financial empowerment to make them move ahead in life. On infrastructure, we have carried out a lot of intervention in erosion control, we have a market called Mojoda and we are currently rebuilding it, in the same market, we are building a motor park. We have completed the first and second phase of light-up Eredo project. We did the first phase inside the premises of the local government and the second phase, which we completed around the Eid-el-Kabir period, was done around all the five wards that make up the LCDA. With this, we believe it will be very difficult to commit any form of crime at night because everywhere is lit up. When we came in, our first 100 days in office, we were able to construct this building in which we are right now. We have ensured that we touched every ward in Eredo LCDA. We are also embarking on IT infrastructure in Eredo, I will like to let you know that we have completed our website and it is functioning already. We are also bringing Wi-Fi because we want to make this place fully automated by December. We will soon begin to operate a paperless environment, whereby an average staff in this council will be able to compete anywhere in the world. And this we will achieve through adequate trainings and exposure to the latest working tools in the world. No doubt you have achieved a lot but you will agree with me that Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) is always a major problem of most government both at states and local government in Nigeria. What is the status of IGR in Eredo LCDA? It is a local environment that we have here, so expectedly IGR will be low. So, to gain anything out of here, you have to be creative. We have created a number of strings of income. When I came in, it was just a unitary method of collection, it was not automated and there was no digital means of IGR collection. So, what we did was to automate IGR collection to the extent that we blocked loopholes and ensures that all money will come to the coffers of the council. We also compartmentalised various IGR heads, we divided them into a group of eight and we put the principal officers of the council in charge of each segment and of course, we hold our periodic monthly meeting to ensure that people are doing their jobs and there is proper collection. We have spread the collection even to the riverine areas. There have been various arguments as regards autonomy for local government and very recently, President Muhammadu Buhari directed that funds for local government councils should be paid directly to their accounts as against paying through the state government. How do you see this development? Local governments function better when they are able to take initiatives in terms of financial autonomy, political autonomy and administrative autonomy. What we have now is financial autonomy. Before now, local governments used to be very autonomous, we were engaging our staff, paying their salaries, doing our promotions and managing our revenues 100 percent. People who are familiar with local government administration then will tell you that they function better. We have been lucky in Lagos State that we have had a progressive government from inception who also believe that every tier of government should function based on its mandate as guaranteed by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. So, that has helped Lagos State to develop at a faster space and a lot better than other states that have rendered their local governments totally inefficient and ineffective. So the intervention of the Federal Government was very timely and it is a welcome development. However, they also need to understand that there is need for more engagement with states and local government, and other stakeholders to have a template that is almost full proof on how local government operations should be. In some other climes, there are ways local governments are managed, especially the issue of creation of local governments. There are a lot of things we need to tidy up around the area of local government governance, especially at this period that we have APC government in Lagos and at the federal level, I want to unequivocally call on the National Assembly of APC members that are dominant there to take steps in ensuring that LCDAs that have been created by the some state governments are upgraded and made full-fledge local governments. They should also make necessary laws to clearly define how local governments can be created and get enlisted in the constitution automatically without any legal lacuna. If it is clear enough, state governments will know whether they have powers to create local governments and if they would create, how do they go about it? So there won’t be any legal tussle between the states and federal governments. So now that we are in government both at the state and national level, they should look into that, validate the existing ones and create a template for going forward.