AWKA – The Association of Persons Living with Sickle Cell Anaemia has said that it has buried no fewer than 100 of her members in Anambra State between June and September this year. National Coordinator of the association, Aisha Maureen Edwards, disclosed this to our correspondent in Awka on Thursday. She said the way and manner in which members of the association were dying made her to even prepare for her own last moments, adding that the trauma and psychological effects of living with such medical condition were unbearable. Edwards noted that the rainy season was not the best of season for persons living with sickle cell diseases because during the season they record high rate of deaths. She however traced the origin of sickle cell diseases to the exchange of marital vows in churches where those consummating marriages did not bother to inquire about the genotype status of intending couples. She also disclosed that some medical practitioners had continued to exploit persons with sickle cell disorder in the guise of providing supplements to cure the scourge, stressing that a certain commissioner in Anambra used members of the association to play politics in 2014, wondering why he did not use his good relationship with the governor to get him to assent to sickle cell bill. Edwards posited that in the last five years, “we are over 100 that are dead in Anambra. The situation of sicklers are worst than that of widows. Again, the wife of the governor would be kind enough to empower some of these widows; do you know that these widows turn around to sell these items to sicklers. “Most divorce cases you see today are caused by sickle cell anaemia. So, it is a multi-faceted monster that is eating up the society more than HIV/AIDS. Sickle cell crisis is excruciating. Even the clergies who consummate marriages and also officiate in burial ceremonies of sickle cell persons have not bothered to find out what is delaying the governor’s assent to the law to make it active. “So, we are pleading with Governor Willie Obiano to overcome all bottlenecks and sign the sickle cell bill into law so that persons living with sickle cell disorder will have their rights and privileges as enshrined in the law passed by the 6th assembly of the Anambra State House of Assembly.”