Honorable Charles Idahosa, is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State and a former Political Adviser to the immediate past governor of the state, Adams Oshiomhole. He is presently one of the loudest voices in support of the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki in the unfolding political imbroglio in the state. In this interview with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO, Idahosa vowed that Obaseki would have his second term as the Governor of Edo State. Excerpts: What is your reaction to Adams Oshiomhole’s recent interview where he said Governor Godwin Obaseki will need a miracle to have a second term? Thank you very much, I read the interview and I was amused. I want to make it quite clear, that that was why I waited to find out if he was misquoted, but from all indications, he was not misquoted. Obaseki and Oshiomhole, as far as I am concerned are one. Obaseki is a creation of Adams Oshiomhole. In that same interview, I read where he said I brought one Commissioner and I was disappointed because he knows he was lying from both sides of his mouth. In my previous interview, I said Oshiomhole brought the deputy governor, secretary to the state government, he brought Chairman of the party, he brought Secretary of the party, all these are not hearsay because I am aware, I was not told. Now the most annoying part of it all is that, he puts the blame on the press and that is why I am disappointed in the press. When the governor made that missionary journey to Iyamo, he attacked the press, he said, ‘you people are the ones creating confusion, you are the ones creating factions, you are the ones that will create something in your own image’, because he engages his mouth before his brain, he will talk first before thinking what he has said. When he said that, they were tapping each other at the back and he said everything was over but I knew it was not over because they are busy working underground. But I want to assure you is that nobody can stop Obaseki from doing his two terms, I am behind him, morning, night and day, Uhunmwode people are behind him. Now as if everything have mellowed down, then I saw this interview that ‘it will take a miracle because he is not carrying people along’, I do not know what they carry, does Obaseki need to carry them at the back? So I just discovered that this whole thing has not ended. Now I want to seize this opportunity to tell you one story why this matter will never end, I want you to take note, if two friends are quarrelling and you cannot settle the quarrel there must be something behind it that nobody can talk about and that one is envy and jealousy. There is no way two friends can come out to say I am jealous of him, I am envious of him, somebody said it, so what is happening is that Oshiomhole is envious and jealous of Obaseki’s achievements. There is no way he is going to come out boldly to say it. That is why their quarrel cannot be settled. You are preparing for election and with this situation in the party, is the state safe under you? The state is safe under the APC. We will still win. You see, one thing you do not understand is that you are seeing this thing from a different angle, we politicians that are making noise are not up to 20 per cent. I want you to tell me that out there Obaseki is not popular, that is what I just want to hear. You people forget so easily, you have forgotten that pensioners use to carry mattresses to sleep in Ring Road, they use to wear black and demonstrate, that does not happen again in this state. How can you encourage thugs to take over the whole place because they won elections for you, so we must stay like that the rest of our lives, you will be head of everything all just to extort money from the people. I saw a kid being interviewed on television, they asked him what he wants to be when he grew up, he said I will want to be a rich man, they said what would you want to study, he said, no I will want to be an ‘Agbero’ (thug), because that was the lesson learnt, that was what they were seeing. So these issues will not affect the party, what you are seeing now is what we call, ‘noise in vendors mouth’, so Obaseki will win because we are determined and the people are with him, he has the support of the people. What is your reaction to the judgment of the Federal High Court ruling in Port Harcourt on Edo State House of Assembly? Unfortunately, I am not a lawyer but as a layman, what I read is very clear because it is written in simple language, they have no power whatsoever to do what they have done, the man went further, there cannot be a second proclamation, if he does that he will be extending the tenure of the House of Assembly members and he has no power to do that, and three, the National Assembly has no power to instruct Police or DSS to seal anywhere and that only the Court can instruct the National Assembly to take over the House of Assembly they do not have that power themselves. So, as far as I am concerned, they should go to appeal, it is rule of law and you all agree with me that the House of Assembly is functioning, they are doing their job. As one of the leaders of the party, there is apprehension in town, how are you preparing to educate your followers so that the spillover will not cause crisis among them? The people are very aware of what is happening, the issue going on will not affect the election. It is like the issue of politicising NDDC because most people do not have information. Former deputy governor, Dr. Egberamwen Odubu is eminently qualified to be president of this country, he is eminently qualified to be Chairman of NDDC in terms of education and exposure but the quarrel is the process. Now they are making this look like Obaseki has a problem with Odubu, nobody has any problem with Odubu. This time around they gave us two, Chairmanship and Commissioner, something that has never happened. What stops Oshiomhole from calling Obaseki to say this man was my deputy for eight years, he did not get the ticket because I gave it to you, now let us compensate him with this one and then the commissioner you will bring, he did not consult him. So, the question I want to ask is this, why would he undermine a sitting governor who is from the same party with him? The same person you brought and appoint two people to NDDC without consulting him. Odubu is everybody’s friend, it is not about him, Odubu is not quarrelling with anybody, it is Oshiomhole that is trying to cause a division and people put these things into his head and most of them are my people from Edo South. What is your advice to assembly member-elect who have not been sworn in? No, they should just go inside, you know we have seen, this position of Speaker, is it a permanent thing? Oshiomhole changed about five when he was governor at his own time and we were the ones telling them who will be Speaker, there was no meeting, so at the end of the day, this is how I see this matter that they should try as much as possible to settle among themselves because Oshiomhole brought Obaseki and we bought him from him. Up till now, he has not told me what is happening but I can see it because the only thing Oshiomhole likes is what comes from him. If you come up with any good idea that is not from him, he will discard it and he knows it is a good idea but he wants to be the person that brings it up. I want to end this interview with an old Benin adage, that all those Benin boys hanging around him they should explain it to him, that he is shooting himself on the foot, there was a Benin Chief who became so rich that he went to the Oba of Benin and said, ‘I am richer than you, I have more properties, I have more this, I have more that’. Oba said, ok, let us start counting our riches, and he said, I owned this, I owned this, I owned this, and Oba said, have you finished? He said, Oba you count your own, Oba said, you the first, I own you so everything you own is mine. So everything Obaseki has done is Oshiomhole, because he owns him, he brought him, if Obaseki brought 20 commissioners now, is Oshiomhole that brought them, everything that Obaseki is doing, he should not run away from them, if himself and Obaseki are to count their wealth now, he will start with Obaseki.