Abuja – The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) have cautioned against the timing of the announced increase in Value Added Tax (VAT) by the Federal Government from 5% to 7.2%. The warning was a reaction to a recent announcement by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, after the Federal Executive Council meeting chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari.
Timothy Olawale, Director-General of NECA, at a public function in Abuja, said: “Recently released data of the country’s GDP growth indicated a contraction in the past two quarters (Q4, 2018 (2.38%), Q1, 2019 (2.10%), Q2, 2019 (1.94%) and also the International Monetary Fund has recently revised downward its global economic growth forecast to 3.2% due to sluggishness in the global economy.”
He said this suggested that, at such period of time, economies should be formulating fiscal measures/policies to stimulate their economies.
He added: “The benefits of the recently signed National Minimum Wage of N30,000 would be neutralised by the proposed increase in the VAT, further reduce the purchasing power of the citizens, leading to increase in prices of goods and services, resulting in upward movement of the inflation rate, and further contraction of the economy.”
On businesses, he lamented that since the purchasing power of the citizens would have been reduced, sales of goods and services would reduce and inventories for business would be high and could lead to closure of businesses that ought to be supported by government in reducing the unemployment rate that is currently alarming.
Olawale was of the view that in the event that government had to increase VAT against the will of the people, it should have been limited to luxury or ostentatious goods only.
He also urged government to double its efforts at expanding the tax net, reducing the income gap, and improving the economy through more friendly fiscal policies, and promote the ease of doing business in Nigeria.
According to him, “The Federal Government should bring up machinery in order to further increase the tax bracket, widen the tax net as the country is presently achieving less than 10% of its VAT potentials.”
Meanwhile, General Secretary of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Emma Ugboaja, has warned that the policy, if implemented, was capable of further eroding the purchasing power of Nigerians.
He said: “We reject the increase as it clearly seeks to erode whatever purchasing power the minimum wage may bring.
“We see it as a move not well thought through with the welfare of Nigeria wage earners in mind. Its impact on Nigerian manufacturers and job creation and retention will be nightmarish.
“It is clearly insensitive to the plight of the ordinary Nigerian. What the government needs to do is to widen the tax net and get people to pay tax and not to over tax those that are in the net as of now.”