A new study by the Research and Intelligence Unit of the omni-media group, RED | For Africa, indicates that about 43 per cent of Nigerians with active social media accounts have been influenced to buy smartphones based on brand focused online marketing campaigns.
The research study was undertaken by RED | For Africa to analyse and give insight into the impact and effectiveness of social media marketing campaigns in influencing consumer choices and driving sales of phone devices in Nigeria.
Isime Esene, Head of Research and Intelligence, speaking on the study, said: “People do not buy things by chance, and even for technology brands that provide both functional and social value, consumers need products that will not disappoint, fail, or crash when they are needed.
“As a rapidly growing sector in Nigeria, marketing technology devices and properties on social media is an important business activity for all major brands in the industry. But, if it is to be done effectively, it is important to understand what exactly drives the choices and decisions for targeted consumers.”
Esene explained that the research data was designed to help smartphone brands position themselves to understand their customers better, and also improve their bottom-line.
More research reports are expected to be released, covering contemporary issues and topics in media and communication, church culture, politics, and governance.
The research report is built on an extensive survey conducted with 1,007 respondents between ages 18 – 60 years across Nigeria, and further supported by three focus group discussions to assess buying decisions and major interests of smartphone product consumers.
A sizeable number of the participants (83 per cent) are resident in Lagos, with others covering Oyo, Kano, FCT Abuja, Enugu and Osun state.
Also, the age division between participants is 18-25 years (61.07 per cent); 26-35 years (26.42 per cent); 36–40 years (8.15 per cent); 41-50 years (2.78 per cent) and 51-60 years (2.68 per cent).