Akure – Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has procured and presented no fewer than 20 brand new Toyota Land Cruiser and Prado Sports Utility Vehicles (SUV) to the state Chief Judge and judges of the state. Receiving 16 of the vehicles on behalf of the judges at the Government House, Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital on Wednesday, the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Oluwatoyin Akeredolu, appreciated the governor for the gesture. She noted that earlier in the year, the governor had presented similar brands to four newly sworn in high court judges. The chief judge disclosed that vehicles being used by judges in the state, including herself, were 10 years old and they all looked rickety. According to her, “My colleagues and I have been riding ten-year-old vehicles hitherto. We have had various experiences of disappointments in the use of our vehicles. “I recall once I was on the way to Abuja; my vehicle broke down around Obajana. And you know the security situation in that axis. Before long, the boys were gathering. Fortunately for me, I had the pilot vehicle with me. I had to enter the pilot vehicle to get away from that environment “If you bring my colleagues here, they will tell you the various experiences they have had with their vehicles. I want to thank God for Mr. Governor “I want to appreciate this good gesture. We don’t have feelings of entitlement. Though the regulation says give judges new vehicles every four years. “By this regulation, it’s an entitlement. But at the same time, we want to appreciate Mr. Governor for not taking us for granted.” Meanwhile, shortly before the Permanent Secretary, General Administration of the Governor’s Office presented the vehicles to the judges, the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, explained that the procurement of the vehicles further demonstrated the respect Governor Akeredolu had for the sacred institution. The commissioner said: “My Lords, I don’t need to inform you further that Mr. Governor holds the judiciary in a very high esteem. He believes that no effort will be too much to be invested as far as the welfare of our sacred institution is concerned “And our judges, he believes strongly that you deserve not just a conducive environment but that you must be secured in whatever form. It’s on this note that Mr. Governor decided, that as part of the efforts towards enhancing a cordial relationship between the executive and the Judiciary, that this vehicles should be procured.”