As the glamour of financial inclusion continues to draw attention, stakeholders in the sector have expressed optimism that micro-insurance plan introduced by the regulator will improve insurance penetration and contribute to the GDP. OYENIRAN APATA, CHRIS EBONG and  OLUSEGUN KOIKI write. The Financial System Strategy (FSS) 20:2020 specifies that uninsured Nigerian populace should be integrated into the mainstream financial system. By this initiative, it is expected that insurance industry key into the initiative by deploying products and services that would address the needs of the uninsured, thereby engendering penetration of the grassroots. One of the most popular policies introduced by the industry through the regulatory framework is the microinsurance plan. Experts believe that with proper use of microinsurance tools, the industry’s contribution to the nation’s economy would increase from the current 0.31per cent to about 3.69 per cent. According to the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), the insurance industry regulatory agency, proper implementation of microinsurance would increase the insurance penetration and the sector’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from the current less than one per cent position to over 3 per cent by the year 2020 going forward. While this would significantly bring into the insurance net, those that are yet to have one form of insurance or the other, the bottom-line of operators would also improve through the numbers of the insured in their books. The Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS) which was launched in 2012 by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to improve access to financial services and products by the Nigerian adult population was also meant to include the uninsured into the financial service net. The 2010 Access to Financial Services Survey, carried out by Enhanced Financial Innovation and Access (EfinA), indicated that only 36 per cent of Nigerian adults have access to financial services. The strategy, thus aimed at achieving a 34 per cent increased access to financial services and products by the year 2020, which means, attaining a 70 per cent inclusion rate. The NFIS implementation is being driven through a robust collaboration amongst regulatory agencies including the National Insurance Commission, National Pension Commission, Securities & Exchange Commission, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation as well as the Nigerian Communication Commission. Stakeholders’ Roles SUNDAY INDEPENDENT survey shows that microinsurance products are generally developed and offered by commercial insurers, mutual funds, microfinance institutions, NGOs, governments or semi-public bodies world over. Microinsurance ventures are often joint efforts among several of these stakeholders, who can play roles ranging from market research and product design to selling, delivering, and servicing claims. Products Development Microinsurance products can cover any insurable risk, including death, illness, accident, property damage, unemployment, crop failure, or loss of livestock. The Microinsurance Guidelines for Nigeria further clarifies that the products/services risk, procedures and coverage must be unambiguous and easily understood.  Microinsurance products must be affordable and accessible to the target market in terms of purchase, premium payments and claims. The products or services shall be designed to meet the needs of clients, be beneficial, fair in price and coverage. Microinsurance Portfolio size: Microinsurance can operate at any scale (from small to large), as a micro insurer may cover dozens of policyholders or millions. According to the EFInA Access to Financial Services in Nigeria 2016 Survey, 32.1 million Nigerian adults said that they are interested in using microinsurance products. This portrays a significant opportunity to deepen the uptake and usage of microinsurance in Nigeria. Expanding Distribution Channels: The distribution channels for microinsurance in Nigeria continue to evolve with emerging types of distribution channels who are now an integral part of the value chain. The success of any microinsurance development process lies in its effectiveness in stimulating private sector engagement and investments. Microinsurance providers can leverage the growing agent networks in Nigeria to distribute their products and services. Regulatory Environment: There is strong commitment in recent times, and support from the Microinsurance regulator towards the development of the Guidelines for Microinsurance Operations in Nigeria as well as the industry as a whole. Mature Financial Services Sector: Nigeria has continued to see a geometric rise in the number of financial products and services created by financial services providers and this trend will continue to take reinvigorated dimensions as the market continues to get more sophisticated. Experts say various innovations in the financial services space are made possible by the disruptions caused by the revolution in information technology and the market opportunities offered by these never-ending digital innovations. Challenges Microinsurance is a low-price, high-volume business and its success and market sustainability is dependent on keeping the transaction cost down. Several constraints make microinsurance look unattractive, including a lack of political will, scarcity of public funds and absence of a viable business model. The costs of marketing and processing appear to be too high and given the extremely low purchasing power of the consumer base; it cannot be easily apportioned to the target group. But the real issue, according to our finding, is that a lot of microinsurance schemes are struggling to reach profitability and sustainability because of the high fixed and marginal costs usually invested in the schemes, which only attracts low premiums. The advocacy has it that these providers target large groups and develop products targeted towards the mass market at the bottom of the pyramid. Another monster of the scheme is the awareness level which is still very low. There is a need to increase mass awareness creation, which should be accompanied by a greater focus on the client experience, timely payments of claims, customer education, marketing and customer care. This will increase the knowledge and buy-in of microinsurance among the low-income groups, according to experts.  Education programmes targeted at specific market segments are likely to yield better results than mass awareness through media. Value Proposition and Products Bundling: To trigger increased uptake of microinsurance products, consumer education needs to be accompanied by the availability of appropriate products and ideally with testimonial marketing. Besides, the insurer can provide a combination of products that are designed to respond to the real needs of the Nigerian low-income population. Low Understanding Stakeholders’ in the sector opined that “There is a need for Microinsurance operators to invest in in-depth market research to fully understand what the target customers need and how to meet these needs. It is usually beneficial for Microinsurance operators to engage in some targeted programmes; this affords them a valuable opportunity to understand the needs of their targeted consumers, which helps inform appropriate product design. Distribution Channels: Distribution is as technical as every other part of the value chain. Certainly, it is a known fact that the operators still find it difficult to define the palatable source of distribution channels and this too has posed a great threat to the scheme. “Microinsurance providers still have a lot of work to do in establishing and maintaining effective distribution partnerships to expand the touchpoints and usage of Microinsurance products” ,it was observed. According to the , “Impact Insurance Facility of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), distribution is a particularly important focus for those looking to deliver insurance to low-income people.” With low margins, microinsurers need to find low-cost channels that can reach clients in large numbers. The channels also need to be capable of selling to those with no experience of insurance. Agreeable, every microinsurance distribution channel has it’s own advantages/disadvantages, and understanding these can be a starting point for selecting and working with a channel. It is important to note that successful distribution strategies will design the products and distribution channels according to the maturity of the target market. To understand and make use of the product, clients will often require more interaction. The following are some models which are currently working in Nigeria or maybe explored Microinsurance organisations can, in addition to their core staff, make use of direct sales agents, who will engage in personal interactions with clients and are often specialised in insurance sales. This is currently the most common form of microinsurance distribution in Nigeria. Effective Partnerships In markets with low Microinsurance awareness like Nigeria, microinsurers need to look for distribution channels which already have a large client base and can facilitate enrolments, such as financial institutions and Super Agents. Deposit Money Banks, Microfinance Banks, credit unions, cooperatives etc. may be partnered on Microinsurance. Community-based organisations include cooperatives, trade unions and faith-based organisations have a tradition of providing insurance to their members and their ability to group large numbers of people, sometimes with similar characteristics or needs, make them attractive distribution channels. Community-based organisations can often operate in environments with little insurance culture like Nigeria as members are often used to looking to them for support during shocks. Retail chains such as supermarkets, appliances stores, clothing retailers, agricultural input retailers, credit retail chains among others can be leveraged to provide first level information on Microinsurance to their customers. Microinsurance operators should, however, note that retail chains are usually a pull channel, expecting clients to pick a product off the shelf, rather than actively selling it. This sales approach limits its effectiveness and increases the risk of mis-selling. Partnerships with Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) can rely on their large subscriber base of low-income clients to function as distribution channels for Microinsurance by allowing them to register via mobile phones or by actively providing clients with insurance coverage as part of loyalty schemes. To effectively harness the optimal benefits of microinsurance plan, stakeholders in the scheme have changed the insurance industry regulatory agency, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to be flexible in their regulatory functions and lighten up-regulation for the scheme to be sustained. According to them, the regulation should be more of advocacy and developmental other than compliant for the informal sector to embrace the scheme, adding that harsh regulation would be counterproductive to the primary objective of the initiative. Also noted was that trust should form part of the core values in the implementation of the scheme for the masses to buy-in. For them where trust and confidence are lacking in the relationship between the market and the industry there would be chaos, adding that in spite of the challenges in the business environment, if the operators of the two sectors should build the much desired trust and confidence that will drive the relationship with the target micro market segment, and make them see the value in the services they render, they will attract more contributors and insuring public into their net. Engagement between the sector’s regulator and the operators,  as a matter of policy, should be the hallmark of the relationship and to engage informal sector operators to understand their peculiarities and needs to formulate policies that will drive their operations and break their burden of financial exclusion. Dr. Pius Apere, Managing Director, Achor Actuarial Services Limited, while speaking with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, added that technology should be effectively deployed to drive the microinsurance operations. “Operators and regulators should leverage on technology especially telcos to reach the masses with financial inclusion message to improve the level of financial literacy in Nigeria. “Operators should give due consideration to the attachment of incentives to woo and retain contributors and policyholders. The potentials in the market are so huge that operators should take cognisance of all the segments of the informal sector and device peculiar ways to engage them and make them sign on to financial inclusion. Rather than assume that the micro-market segment has adequate knowledge of their products and services, they should create improved and sustained education, awareness programme that will broaden their understanding of their services and improve on their level of financial literacy.” He said. Apere opined that the NAICOM should consider applying the cancelled “Risk-based supervision to the implementation of the microinsurance policy framework. “When the foregoing is being implemented for the conventional insurance companies, the regulator should also ensure that the principle of proportionality is applied in the supervisory regime for the micro-insurance market. “Actuarial valuation – Micro-insurance guidelines state that an actuarial valuation should be carried out for life micro-insurance business once in every period of 5 years by an appointed Actuary. However, section 27(1) of Insurance Act 2003 states that an actuarial valuation for conventional life insurance business should be carried out once in every period of 3 years. “The choice of inter-valuation period of 5 years for life micro-insurance portfolio is quite reasonable if the high cost of actuarial valuation of the conventional life insurance portfolio being charged by the actuary is the overarching consideration. “However, all things being equal, the above decision would require that the regulator needs to scrutinize the Micro-Insurer’s risk management activities and operations on a more regular basis to ensure that solvency is being maintained during the inter-valuation period. “Furthermore, in practice, an actuarial valuation for the non-life conventional insurance business has been carried out once a year to estimate the Liability Adequacy Test (LAT) in line with IFRS requirements. However, there is no actuarial valuation guideline for the non-life micro-insurance business equivalent provided in Micro-insurance guidelines. The above needs clarification, even if it is obvious, for consistency,” he posited. He maintained that there is clear evidence that low-income socio-economic groups need a range of financial services, which is affordable and yet easily accessible, and should typically include credit, savings, remittances, insurance and pension, stressing that without micro-insurance plans any improvements in alleviating poverty may be quickly lost due to the impact of risks. Mr Guy Czartoryski, Head, Research, Coronation Merchant Bank, said that the microinsurance could be used to increase insurance penetration now at 0.31per cent to about 3.69 per cent within 10 years and improve the insurance industry contribution to the GDP. It is also predicted that the microinsurance segment of the market is capable of bringing over 80 million Nigerians into the financial net if well harnessed. “Insurance is about trust. In any market you begin with a skeptical audience. As noted above, we do not think cultural reasons explain the lack of insurance penetration in Nigeria. “The role of micro-insurance is to provide insurance at low cost to many customers and, in the process, familiarise the market with the concept and operations of insurance. A reliable claims history is important here. One way of doing this is to bundle basic accident cover with other services, such as banking or telecoms services, so that the cost is not noticed and therefore goes unchallenged. “The key thing about micro-insurance is that it is widely seen as meeting a developmental goal. If you take household economics, and the devastating effects that personal accidents can have on them, then micro-insurance becomes important to achieving economic security. Once the market understands that it is buying economic security, then selling insurance becomes easier:, he added.