ADO-EKITI –  Lola Olujobi, a former Managing Director at Ulayin Micro Finance Bank, has disclosed how he was left of the hook by the courts over allegations of financial scam involving seven top officials of the bank.
The media on March 9,2011 had reported that Olujobi was among seven top executive officers of Ulayin Bank accused of involving in the multimillion naira scam.
But Daily Independent further checks revealed that Olujobi was not part of the officers indicted in the fraud.
The bench warrant issued against him by court on the March 8 when the case came up was vacated by Justice E. A. Obile of the Federal High Court sitting in Ado-Ekiti.
“When the case came in court, I was not represented. My thought was that oral explanations given to the investigators would suffice. And that was on the basis of that a bench warrant was issued,” he said.
The bank chief also narrated how he suffered physiological trauma for a crime he said he knew nothing about after he was invited severely by security operatives both in Ekiti and Abuja before he was eventually cleared.
Although, Olujobi had since progressed in his banking career as he is now the Managing Director of Aramoko Community Bank, he stressed that the embarrassment caused by the media reports needed to be corrected
He explained that since the initial reports linking him to the scam still exited on the web site of some newspapers, including Daily Independent, the clarification became imperative in order not to jeopardize his career.
Olujobi spoke of how the report nearly cost him his present job when certain individuals drew the attention of the Board of Directors of Aramoko Community Bank to the report documented in the newspapers’ websites.
“I was issued a query by the board asking me to explainwhy I should not be sanctioned as the MD/CEO of the bank having been involved in the alleged fraud at my previous place of assignment.
I quickly gave detailed explanations and valid court document, which indicted and convicted those involved in the scam. I would have been sacked by now if the board only relied on the newspapers publications without demanding explanation and proof of innocence from me. The world is now a global ally village,” Olujobi lamented.