ABUJA – A judgment at the Appeal Court, President Muham- madu Buhari began the in- augural Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting on Wednesday with a charge to his ministers not to let him down with regards to the discharge of their du- ties. He reminded them that he owed Nigerians a responsibility to deliver good governance, having secured a second term mandate. While presiding over the meeting, which lasted sev- eral hours at the Presiden- tial Villa, Abuja, Buhari said his quest to eliminate corruption, revamp the economy,andrestoresecu- rity had not waned. He, therefore, cautioned the ministers against devi- ating from those core ob- jectives. The president said these objectives also informed his creation of five new ministries while merging others. He said: “For the new cabinet members, this weekly meeting presents an opportunity to know your fellow ministers and exchange ideas with a goal of perfecting our stated pol- icies which will positively impact on Nigerians.
“In the recently conclud- ed elections, the majority of Nigerians who voted for us gave us a clear man- date: to enhance the secu- rity of lives and property across the entire country, to create a diversified and inclusive economy that will bring prosperity to all, and to install governance and accountability in our sys- tems and processes, there- by eliminating corruption. “Therefore, all ideas and projects that will contrib- ute to achieving these goals shall be foremost in our de- liberations.
“For returning minis- ters, my decision to ap- point you is based on merit. During our first term, you executed your mandate diligently in a patriotic manner. I expect you all to double your efforts in this second term. “To enhance service delivery, we decided to re- structure some functions which led to the creation of new ministries to achieve our goal of economic di- versification and inclusive growth. “For example, we merged the Ministry of Finance with that of Bud- get and National Planning, we also created a Ministry for Humanitarian Affairs and Disasters Management and Social Development to fully institutionalise our various interventions that support some of the poor- est and most distressed cit- izens of our count