Mr. Nuhu Ogirima, Senior Lecturer, Federal College of Education (FCE), Okene, Kogi State, is the president, Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU). The former Assistant National Secretary, National Secretary and Vice President of the union, in this interview, spoke on the failure of Federal Government (FG) to fulfill its promise which prompted COEASU in December 2018 to suspend the strike its two-month. Excerpts: Why is COEASU talking about going on strike again? Were the issues not resolved before you called off the strike last year? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network What we did was to suspend the strike on December 5, 2018. We suspended the strike because at that time the discussion we had with the functionaries of government was to the effect that government will commit N15 billion to revitalise the public colleges of education. There was also the issue of earned academic allowances. We had the issues of the review of the establishment laws of the Federal Colleges of Education and that of the commission, the National Commission for Colleges of Education. Of course, we had the issue of the implementation of CONTISS 15 for the lower cadres in our system. What do you mean by CONTISS 15? CONTISS means Consolidated Tertiary Institutions Salary Scale. It is our salary scale. This implementation of CONTISS 15 in the lower cadre is christened migration. When you say migration, the polytechnics and colleges of education understand. Of course, we had lots of other issues. Let me quickly mention them. The other one has to do with staff school, the staff school which judgment SSANU of the universities obtained. It ought to cut across. They said they are going to convey government decision on the judgment. That has not been done. Then, we had the issues of outsourced services. Government outsourced services – cleaning, security, driving, all those services were outsourced in 2006. You will recall that there is a policy of government to outsource such services. And as we speak, government has not taken responsibility. Government ought to take responsibility. But, what they did was to charge the colleges to pay for those services. But, as we speak now the responsibility has not been taken up by government. The worst aspect of it is that it is the cronies of government that even get such contracts. At the end of the day the colleges are now paying more to obtain questionable services. Because the services that we get especially from those that are given the responsibility of security and cleaning who are usually government associates, those at the corridors of power, are ineffectual services. The colleges are bearing the brunt. Security issues in most of the colleges are there with questionable services. At the end of the day, they pay more, while Nigerians that incidentally get such jobs are paid less. How do you mean? The colleges pay more for the services to those contractors – those who offer the services, while Nigerians engaged by the contractors receive less. That is why they are not putting in their best – people taking as low as N8, 000 after 30 days or thereabout.  It is very demoralising, hence they are not putting in their best. That is why we have a lot of security breaches. In some of our campuses, some of our people had been victims of kidnap, right from the college campuses. I can cite the case of Rivers State. Some of our colleagues have been kidnapped severally and serially. I can also cite the case of Benue, College of Education, Katsina Ala, where at a time, they had to even demonstrate and we had to write to the Inspector General of Police. You will recall that there was a bomb blast in Kontogora in 2014. It was as a result of the porous security. That is why a review of that policy forms remains a very focal area of our agitation. Still government has not done anything, even though the minister at that time, who incidentally has returned, requested for a memo so they could look at it to see what government could do. Nothing has been done about that. Did you clearly reach understanding on these issues? We had reached understanding, but at the end of the day nothing was done. There is also the issue of Group Life Insurance. What the law says is for every federal college to appoint its underwriter. But as we speak now it is centralized. They centralize it. The Ministry (of Education) maybe in conjunction with the office the Head of Civil Service of the Federation appoints underwriter for all the colleges as against what is obtainable in the Act. This is where we have serious problems. When you overcentralise, at the end of the day the burden and the responsiveness to challenges that ought to be addressed by the decentralisation that has been in place by virtue of the law would create a lot of issues. And that is what we are suffering. People have claims that they cannot make. Families of deceased people cannot make claims on behalf of their deceased persons. Most of them are left to suffer the pains of their lost ones. It is very, very demoralizing. And of course, we have the issue of IPPIS – Integrated Payroll Personnel Information System. It is a policy of government that is geared towards checking perceived corruption or leakages in the system. Let me discuss IPPIS in the context of the tertiary institutions. Service providers in tertiary subsector, particularly at this level of education worldwide, enjoy a measure of autonomy – some exclusively, completely autonomous. And in such situations – some of us have taken the pains to study the funding models that we have. We discovered that the autonomy in some cases is very, very complete. Institutions are given free hands to administer and manage their institutions. What most of those governments do is to give grants. And there are a lot of formulae for giving grants to institutions. What obtains in Europe is different from what obtains in America.  Even in Europe itself what obtains mostly is on the aspect of grants on the basis of student enrolment – number of students that enrolled. Of course you will still make some retirement and then you will be given other grants. That is by the way. But there is still some subsidy in the case of others. When we look at what we do here, what government does here is to intervene, then also take some responsibilities, in which case the complete autonomy is not there. But, the IPPIS is being operated in other agencies of government? Yes, but when you critically assess the IPPIS and the implication of its implementation, you will discover that even in the MDAs where it has been implemented there are myriad of issues and challenged unsolved. I have had people complained that some of their allowances are not been captured. What I am saying is that there is rigidity, inherent rigidity in the implementation of IPPIS as a pay platform. It will affect the kind of flexibility that obtains in tertiary institutions. What is the flexibility in tertiary institutions? Look, the issue of manpower; people cross carpet, people leave the system maybe for greener pastures or simply they want to stay on their own and start consulting fully – they leave! And this occurs fairly regularly. Where it happens, how do you make replacement because, in a post-IPPIS, you cannot employ. There is no way you can employ. Everything is controlled. So, again this boils down to the issue of over-centralization. When you centralize your pay system and then you put everything in the hands of a third party and allows a third party to manage your finances, you will be heading for trouble, especially in system like the tertiary institution system where there is a measure of flexibility like I said. Basically, your union is against the application of IPPIS? IPPIS is a non-starter as far as tertiary institutions are concerned. The only way that it can be is if there is serious modification. But the best for Nigeria is to have exemption. IPPIS is not applicable everywhere. IPPIS cannot apply in tertiary institutions. Let there be a different approach in addressing the issues of leakages in the system as far as tertiary institutions are concerned.