Chief Duerimini Isaac Kekemeke is former chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State. In this interview with BOLU-OLU ESHO spoke on why the party lost the state’s Senate seats and the Presidential poll in the last general elections. Excerpt: What is the present situation in your party, APC vis-à-vis the current relationship between the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s faction and other factions in the party? Our party is hopefully working hard come out of the conflict we found ourselves in as a result of the 2016 governorship primary elections. Three years down the line, we are still engulfed in disagreement, quarrels and misunderstandings. Fortunately, with the intervention of our leadership, national and Southwest, we are beginning to put ourselves together, trying to find a way to finally end the 2016 crisis, so that as a party, we can be together for the next round of elections. So, it is my hope and I think the hope of many a party man that this crisis would soon be a thing of the past. The National Leader of your party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and some other leaders were in Akure sometime ago to resolve the crisis between Governor Akeredolu and factions led by other bigwigs in your party. But, there was no communiqué issued as to the resolutions of the closed-door meeting. The media team of the governor said that you were all asked to go and support the governor’s second term ambition. How true is this? Well, first of all, I don’t think the governor’s media team or the governor’s camp or the governor himself would have said that. I didn’t read any statement issued by the governor’s media team to the effect that an automatic ticket was ordered for the governor. Some of us were very reluctant to speak about what happened because that was supposed to a domestic affair. That was supposed to be the beginning of the peace we all desire. We didn’t want to say anything that would further offset the peace efforts of our leaders. It would be recalled that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Baba Akande and Aremo Osoba did make statement to the effect that they had come to make peace. I also gave a follow-up statement that we have been charged to find a domestic solution to our problems. At that meeting, the issue of 2020 candidate was not discussed. What was discussed was as Ondo State, how we would have one party, one united party ready to work together so that our platform can still win elections subsequently. What was finally decided was that those of us who were present at that meeting had the capacity to find a domestic solution to that afflicted us. That is the problem of disunity. I think all of us agreed to that charge. Ever since, some of us have been driving the effort to ensure that indeed we live up to the expectations of our leaders by solving our problems by ourselves. After the meeting with the national leaders, have you met at the state level to find ‘domestic’ solution to the ‘domestic’ problems? I can assure you, yes, I can tell you such meeting has been held at various levels. I can tell you that in a short while, we will meet again to begin to iron out our differences and begin to find solutions to those problems by ourselves. You have ‘Leke Leke’ inscriptions all over the place in your office. What is this all about? Has is anything to do with reported interest of Senator Borofice Ajayi, Deputy Senate Leader’s interest in contesting governorship ticket of your party? Leke Leke means a movement that would bring prosperity and peace. It means the desire of a group of people to work for the prosperity and peace of our state.  Of course, Leke Leke is associated with me. I have said many a time as a lawyer and former Attorney General, I will work within the timelines that are spelt out or prescribed by the constitution of Nigeria, by the Electoral Act of our country, by the constitution of our party, APC, and by the guidelines that would be issued by same. But, one thing that is clear is that every citizen of this state, including me, has the right to aspire to a political office of his choice. When that time comes, we will take that decision. But, as I have said earlier, we are consulting and sensitising with a view to exploring the possibility of a run. We have never shied away from that. It is our right. That is the desire of many a people and that’s exactly what we are doing. As a former chairman of your party and having conducted the 2016 governorship primary, what is your leadership putting in place to avoid recurrence of the crisis as a result of the primary? Well, Governor Akeredolu is my friend and we are doing everything to make peace within the party. He is the governor of the state and the party leader. But, for three years I stated that the problem is not with those primaries. Of course, typical Nigerian state of affairs, you will have people complaining that there was malpractice, there was this, there was that. But, the problem was not with those primaries, but with post primaries management. First, by the then National Chairman, Chief John Oyegun-Oyegun, and second, by Governor Akeredolu when he became the governor. He didn’t manage the situation. That is all. I was not the one that conducted the primaries. People had one complaints or the other. But, people accepted the results. Those who tried to challenge them, challenged them. By the time the National Working Committee of the party took the final decision, they did not take a decision that carried along many other sections of the party. But, even then, after the name was submitted, they had a duty to manage the situation. So, when the general elections came, some of us worked for the party, but, some who felt aggrieved, took decisions that were probably not too good. But, beyond that, after the election was won, Governor Akeredolu had a duty to put everyone together. That he didn’t do. But, I am happy he has now realised that; and that is what he is trying to do. Now that he is doing this at the eve of another election, can he be trusted? The election is some 14 months away. It is better we put our party together. Our party must think beyond primary elections. Our party must understand that the primary elections are domestic affair. Our party must know that there is a political adversary waiting outside our party and that is the most important thing. We all were shocked by our performance in the last presidential elections. We don’t want that to repeat itself. It is a shame to all of us. All of us are saddened by that. So, it is beyond primaries. It is all about our party being a credible platform. It is about we, as a party, winning elections. The performance of your party at last general elections was poor. Some of your party members aligned with Action Alliance (AA) and worked against your party senatorial candidate in the Northern Senatorial District, though he came out victorious and was the only candidate who won in your party. What is the chance of your party in the forthcoming governorship election in the state? Let me say what happened had taught all of us lessons. Now that we are working for peace, it is no longer time to start apportioning blames, who did what and who did not do any. Suffice to say that our loss was not as a result of the unpopularity of our party. Our loss was not because the people of the state taught that Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was a better party. It was some protest by some members of our party, it was some protest by some people of the state by what they conceived as unacceptable conduct. So, it was protest. It’s good that it happened because all us realised that we needed each other. We needed all to fire the cylinder from one direction and not multi directionally. I think that is a good lesson to learn for all of us. So, I can assure you that the people of this state, their large number are APC people. They support APC. They associate with APC. They believe in the progressive ideals of APC. Our people are progressive-minded and they have the history of aligning with the progressive movement which the APC represents. We don’t have fear about that. All we need doing is to put our house together and that we are already doing. If you emerge as the candidate of your party at the  primaries, what would you deliver that is different from what Governor Akeredolu is doing currently? Interestingly and incidentally, the people of this state know me. I have been here for 27 years unbroken. I have traversed all the departments of government, in the legislature and in the executive, rising from being Chief Law Officer to chief infrastructure officer, to chief administrative officer. I have also traversed the two isles of politics. Having been the pioneer secretary of PDP and pioneer chairman of APC, I have an insight to the judiciary, having served as the vice chairman of Judicial Service Commission. But, what we are saying now is that we will cause government to be ‘seeable, touchable and feelable’ by the citizens, ordinary citizens.