Rev. Dr. Chukuemeka Peters is the General Overseer of Fire Pentecostal Ministry International (FPM), Lagos. In this interview with JOSEPH UNDU in Abuja, he spoke on some issues in the polity. Excerpts Can we meet you sir? I am Rev. Dr. Chukuemeka Peters, General Overseer of Fire Pentecostal Ministry International (FPM). How do you feel now that, your prophecies in 2015 and 2019 that, President Muhammadu Buhari will win presidential elections have come to pass? For my prophecies in 2015 and 2019 to be confirmed by God means, God has approved of President Buhari. We all know that leadership comes from God. Having prophesied about that, means, it has approval from God that Buhari is going to be the president. All we need to do is to pray for him. That, God who allows him to be president for two terms should provide him with wisdom and understanding on how to rule the country very well. Now that you have four of your spiritual sons serving as ministers in President Buhari’s administration, what would you expect them to do differently? I can say that, everybody in that cabinet is my brother and sister, because I am a Nigerian. I have no special wish for any particular one of them, but a general wish for them. Because, if I said probably that one minister is close to me and the other one is not, and the one that is close to me should do well and the one that is not close to me should not do well, then, the way the other one failed will affect me. My prayer for the ministers is that, they should all succeed in their various ministries. When all the ministers succeed, the President has succeeded and when they failed, the president has failed too. I want to advise them to live above board and out-performed their predecessors in their various ministries. 2023 general elections is still very far away, but already, agitations have started. Examining all sides of the arguments, which region do you think deserves the number one position come 2023? Well, you know that politicians are naturally greedy. There’s an underwritten arrangements in Nigeria that makes presidency goes to North and South in that order. And if you watch the Southern region, the South-West has taken, the South-South has also taken, remaining the South- East and everyone knows that. I know the argument would be like whether the All Progressives Congress (APC), was doing very well in the South- East or not. But I would like to bring up a superior argument that, in the South- East, APC may not be the majority, but they are the minority in the party. So, I cannot Say that, Mr. ABC did not support me and killed Mr. D that is supporting me. I believe, the APC and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), should encourage their supporters from that zone. However, power comes from God. God has already designated someone who will rule Nigeria by 2023. And I know that the person will definitely emerge whether from the North, South or East. But, I do not know yet where the person will come from.