Abakaliki – No fewer than two thousand persons, excluding children, have reportedly fled their Azadeene village in Ohaukwu LGA of Ebonyi State on Tuesday following fears of reprisal attacks by their neighbours, the people of Ukwagba Ngbo, also in Ohaukwu LGA. Daily Independent had on Monday reported that ten persons from Ngbo were allegedly butchered by armed bandits believed to have come from their neighbouring communities, with about four others still missing.
Ukwagba is occupied by Ngbo clan while Azadeene are members of Ezza clan.
Both clans have been trading words and accusing each other of invasion and killings.
Sources in the area told Daily Independent that despite the visit of the state governor, David Umahi, to the area at the weekend, there was still heavy tension and fears everywhere in the communities.
This has caused people to leave their homes for fear of attacks.
“As I am talking to you now, the whole community is empty. People are fleeing for fear of reprisal attacks,” a source said.
Daily Independent has reported that Governor David Umahi, during his visit, had threatened to arrest and imprison stakeholders of Ohaukwu LGA if nothing was done to stop the killings and violence.
Umahi, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr. Kelechi Igwe, also ordered the leaders of the communities to ensure that they fished out the killers and hand them over to security agents for prosecution.
He had said: “I am very embittered in my spirit. The first civilian governor is from this state and the grandfather of Ebonyi State is from this local government area. And right inside here, I can see about seven past local government area chairmen.
“It is a shame on all of you. We did not come to paint pictures or clap for you. Do not deceive government. Every day Agila people have come. It is pure falsehood; you know what is happening to yourselves – you are killing one another.
“You should know people who are causing trouble in your domain. The traditional rulers should be able to fish out people who are causing trouble. We have not come with the message of comfort but to sound a note of warning.”