This may not be the best time for Olorogun Benard Okumagba, the incoming Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). A Delta community has sued President Muhammadu Buhari, the Attorney General of the Federation, the National Assembly and the NDDC at the Federal High Court, Benin City, Edo State, over the nomination of Okumagba as the NDDC Managing Director –designate. According to them, Okumagba is not from an oil bearing community. In the originating summons filed on September 10, 2019, with suit No: FHC/05/95/2019, the plaintiffs, Mr. David Odeli, Steven Etsano and Prince Iwere all from Warri North local government Area of Delta State, are seeking for an interlocutory injunction restraining the National Assembly from screening or confirming Okumagba, as the NDDC helmsman. In their prayers before the Federal High Court, Okumagba should not parade himself as MD of NDDC as well as an order of perpetual injunction restraining Buhari, the Attorney General of the Federation and National Assembly from going ahead to nominate, screen and confirm Okumagba as MD of the incoming board of NDDC. The plaintiffs alleged that it is Omadino, Obodo, Ugbokodo and Wakanor that are the only oil bearing communities in Warri South Local Government Area. Stressing that all the previous Managing Directors of the commission are from oil bearing communities, they wondered why Buhari would nominate someone who is not from oil bearing community, threatening that if Okumagba is confirmed, crisis would erupt in the community. Also, the Delta State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has berated critics of Okumagba, saying the appointee has contributed immeasurably to the growth of the party in the state. The party dismissed allegations claiming that the former Commissioner for Finance in Delta State was not a member of the APC, adding that Okumagba joined the party since 2017 and was a delegate of the party to two previous national conventions. A statement signed by the Delta APC Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ogheneluemu Sylvester Imonina, condemned attempt to rubbish the membership and contributions of Okumagba as a member of APC from Warri South in Delta South Senatorial District of the state. “First and foremost, the assertion that Chief Bernard Okumagba is not a member of APC flies in the air. It is a lie from the pit of hell. From available information, Chief Bernad Okumagba joined APC on January 6, 2017. His registration number in the party membership’s register is 17949553. Therefore, the suggestion and the misinformation about his non-membership is a deceit by the unknown authors to discredit him, and achieve their ulterior motives. “Also, we want to state that Chief Bernard Okumagba was one of the national delegates that represented Warri South in two previous National Conventions of our great party, APC. He has being a source of encouragement to APC in his ward/immediate environment, Local Government Area and APC, Delta State. “On the issue of His Excellency, Distinguished Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege coming from the same ethnic nationality with Chief Bernard Okumagba, we state that while Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege is from Delta Central Senatorial District, Chief Bernard Okumagba is from Delta South Senatorial District. “In other words, when political offices are shared in Delta State, the Urhobos in Delta South do not benefit from whatever accrues to Delta Central Senatorial District, hence, besides other uncountable instance, few weeks ago, when Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege appreciated/empowered his people of Delta Central, the Urhobos in Delta South, like other ethnic nationalities in Delta South did not partake in same. “Aside the above, the office of the Deputy Senate President which Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege occupies today, is not an appointive office but an elective office zoned to the Southern part of Nigeria. Distinguished Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege passed through the rigours of election before he emerged as a Deputy Senate President. We therefore condemn in totality the insinuation that Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege is occupying the position that ought to have gone to some persons in Delta South Senatorial District,” the party said. There have been various attacks against Okumagba since his appointment as the Managing Director designate of the NDDC.  Several bodies and one or two ethnic nationalities in Delta State are contending that Okumagba’s appointment should have been to either of the members of their ethnic groups. All the four ethnic groups of Ijaws, Itsekiris, Isokos and Urhobos are inter-related and intertwined by marriages, cultural intercourse and ancestry. The Urhobos of Delta South have been so marginalized to the extent that not even a single appointment out of 14 has been made from amongst them to the various boards of the Oil Mineral Producing Areas development Commission (OMPADEC) and NDDC since inception in 1992 till date. All the 14 appointments to the various boards of OMPADEC/NDDC from Delta South Senatorial District have always excluded the Urohobos out of the four ethnic groups. Since the inception of OMPADEC in 1992 and later NDDC, the Urhobos have not protested their exclusion, from appointments at any time. Not even one Urhobo man or woman was appointed from Delta Central and Delta South Senatorial Districts to OMPADEC board. Now that President Muhammadu Buhari has decided to correct this long standing irregularity, everyone should be thankful to Mr. President, instead of calling for a perpetuation of the old order. Olorogun Bernard Okumagba should be seen from the perspective of his capabilities, qualifications and expertise as a seasoned technocrat and a mobile library of financial management with hands-on experience in projects development.