ENUGU – South East Governors Forum has banned herdsmen from carrying AK-47 rifles and cutlasses within the region. The governors also distanced themselves from the ‘operation python dance’ held in the South East region, saying they had no knowledge of it until it commenced. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network These were among the resolutions made at a meeting of the forum in Enugu Government House on Saturday. Briefing journalists after the meeting, chairman of the forum and Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, said they discussed the security situation in the South East and closure of Enugu Airport by the Federal Government for repairs. Umahi disclosed the meeting agreed on a joint tier security operation to flush out bandits from the region, adding that they resolved to restrict movement of herders and cattle from one state to the other, community to community, to forestall conflicts between herders and host communities. He said the South East Governors were going to request for a meeting with the President and security chiefs to see how they could douse tension in the South East. He commended the governor of Enugu State for setting up forest guards as resolved by the forum and urged other states to follow suit. On the closure of Akanu Ibiam Airport Enugu, Umahi said they acknowledged the safety reasons given by the Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika for the closure of the airport. While noting that the deterioration went on for a long time and the status was too bad that they had to close down the airport, he said they acknowledged his measures and were satisfied with his readiness and passion to uplift the airport. He announced that the governors would constitute a security committee, with a representative from each state. Also present at the meeting were Governors, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Emeka Ihedioha (Imo) and Willie Obiano (Anambra), Abia State Deputy Governor, Ude Oko, Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, Josephine Anenih and President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Nnia Nwodo, clergy, traditional rulers and other stakeholders.