LAGOS – Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives, on Friday turned back representatives of the nation’s military Service Chiefs at a meeting he convened to discuss the nation’s security situation. A visibly disappointed Gbajabiamila, who described their action of the Security Chief as an insult to the parliament, promised to report the matter to President Muhammadu Buhari. The Speaker then postponed the meeting to Monday morning, while apologising to the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Bichi, and the Comptroller General (CG) of Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede, who were present at the meeting. Gbajabiamila noted with dismay that the act of shunning the invitation of the parliament by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Olonisakin, Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas and the Chief of the Air Staff (CAF), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, was uncalled for. He said it was a sad development since all arms of government were supposed to work in unison for the country’s development and the benefit of Nigerians. He said: “Let me first of all commend Mr. President for the commitment he has shown in trying to stem the spate of insecurity in the country. Mr. President has to have people he would delegate those powers to as the Commander-in-Chief as dictated by our constitution. “Mr. President has delegated those powers to the Service Chiefs. So, we decided to call this meeting, as representatives of the people. Let me commend the Inspector General of Police for being here personally. Let me also commend the DG DSS and the CG Nigerian immigration for being here. “Let me say, as a House, as an institution, I cannot understate my disappointment or our disappointment that the rest of the Service Chiefs are not here. “Again, like I said, we called this meeting because it was inevitable. It was important. You can see members from Borno State here. There is a crisis in Borno State right now. “We wanted to hear from the Service Chiefs to know what was going on, how the House can help and what the problems are as well as what are the challenges; to talk about strategy, to talk about what we need to do. “I’m sure you really didn’t expect the House to fold its arms while people in Maiduguri and other parts are being killed. There’s a migration now from local governments in Borno State to Maiduguri. “Here we are, we call the Armed Forces coordinated by the CDS, who’s not here, with Service Chiefs being represented. I’m actually at a loss. “For me, I believe my colleagues are in tandem with this. In the absence of the Service Chiefs, the CDS, the COAS, the CNS and the CAS are not represented as far as we’re concerned. “I’m sorry, when I said not represented, as far as I’m concerned, the heads are not here, the Service Chiefs are not here. I know one or two of these Service Chiefs were somewhere yesterday night. I am aware of that. “I can almost say it shows a disdain for this institution. The budget is on its way. Yes, we need to talk about that. What do you need? What is required? I’m almost embarrassed. To tell you the truth, I’m almost embarrassed,” Gbajabiamila who was angry said.