BENIN – The Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offenses Commission (ICPC) on Tuesday, promised to make public all abandoned contract projects and their handlers upon completion of investigation to serve as deterrent to others in the state. Mr. Yusuf Olatunji, Edo State ICPC Commissioner, disclosed this in a town hall meeting put together by Social Action with support from the MacArthur Foundation on Promoting Accountable Governance Through Tracking of Constituency and Public Projects Implementation in the state. He said, “Just last week, we discovered another which we have not made public and we are still working on it to know how true it is. I cannot tell you for now but the commission will make public all the outcome of all the constituency projects tracking.” Speaking on the topic, “Corruption Issues in Constituency Projects Implementation; Need for Collective Engagement,” Olatunji said the commission has introduced another dimension into its ways of operations, called project tracking with the intension of fighting corruption, stressing that it should not be seen as a way of witch-hunting anybody or institution. “We have introduced another dimension to fight against corruption and one of them is tracking of constituency projects. “The idea behind constituency projects is not to witch-hunt anybody. The idea is to examine how far they have done with our money,” he said. He said constituency projects have been a major channel through which public funds are being siphoned. The commissioner added that the fight against corruption must be seeing as a fight for all and not for anti-graft agencies alone as the commission is bedeviled with acute shortage of manpower. He said, “1,000 ICPC staff among two hundred million Nigerians, how do we fight corruption? EFCC, I am very sure, they do not have enough manpower too. “This is where we all need to come together and fight corruption.” Speaking for the state government, Mr. Taiwo Akerele, the Chief of Staff, represented by the Special Adviser to the Governor/ Chairman, Strategic Planning and Programme Management Office, Mrs. Uyi .J. Oduwa-Malaka, said the government was on course to deliver on its promises to the people of the state.