Abuja – The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has said that Nigeria is bleeding and in dire need of good leaders in strategic positions to halt the sliding.
Prince Secondus said that the country is currently in desperate need of persons with quality and patriotism in their vein as leaders to lift it out of the wood.
Secondus spoke when he handed over the governorship nomination certificate of the party to two candidates for November 16, 2019 elections in Bayelsa and Kogi States.
While the candidate for Bayelsa is Diri Douye, the candidate for Kogi is Engr. Musa Wada.
Lamenting that the citizens are gripped with fear, the National Chairman said, “everyone in this country today is leaving in fear of either hunger or insecurity and the situation calls for all hands to be on deck.”
Secondus warned that the country should pay careful attention quickly to the alarm from the World Bank on the nation’s economy going insolvent unless urgent steps are taken to address the situation.
He charged the gubernatorial flag bearers in the two states to see their victory as an invitation to serve and not to be masters over their people.
He admonished them to see their victory in the spirit of no victor no vanquished and strive to bring all PDP families together for the challenges ahead which is enormous.
Secondus said: “For our candidates in Bayelsa and Kogi. It is not yet time for celebration because this nation is a distress.
“It is time for you to go and bring people together to reconcile our people so that they can team up with all of you and restore the hope of ordinary man, especially in Kogi.
“The responsibility on you today is not to be the master but the servants of the people.
“As you move from here, our party is going to set up two committee, for reconciliation and campaign. You must move from here and know that you have a lot of work to do.
“You must go out in unity to show the spirit of oneness to the people of Kogi and Bayelsa. They need you, they need the PDP to restore the hope of Nigerians.
“A totally reformed PDP does not believe in winner take all moreover the work ahead requires all hands to pull together in the two states to achieve the inevitable victory.”
Earlier the National Organising Secretary (NOS) of the party, Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd), had presented the two candidates and declared the process that produced them clean and transparent.
The two candidates, Senator Douye and Engr. Wada, in their acceptance remark, promised to work hard to carry PDP as a family to victory by November 16.