LAGOS – The seemingly unending war between the Imo State governor, Emeka Ihedioha, and his predecessor, Rochas Okorocha, is beginning to generate worries from stakeholders in the state. Already, a member of the House of Representatives from Okigwe South Federal Constituency of the state, Chike Okafor, has called on the state governor to desist from further harassment of Okorocha and face the challenge of governance confronting the state. Okafor, who spoke with newsmen after his swearing-in as the member of the House at plenary, following his victory at the court over a pre-election trial at the Appeal Court, observed that the task before Ihedioha in the state did not need any distraction, but adequate focus and concentration. The lawmaker, while adding that the state needs the undivided attention of the governor, also stated that Okorocha’s probe by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) shouldn’t be seen as a witch-hunt of any sort, adding that there will be light at the end of the tunnel for the Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District. Okafor said: “I want to settle down fully in the National Assembly. I don’t want to dabble into local politics back home for now. But, I will say without any fear of contradiction that I wish the governor in my state settles down and faces the issues of governance in my state and leave out a man he took over from. “This is my position. In summary, I wish that His Excellency, Governor Emeka Ihedioha, will face the challenging issues in the state and leave Senator Okorocha alone.” Since assuming office as the state governor, Ihedioha has continued to launch one form of attack or the other against his predecessor, which prompted the former governor, to recently voice out that he would no longer tolerate further attacks from his successor. Okorocha had at a forum in Owerri, told his supporters that no amount of intimidation from his successor can cow him into submission. “I will no longer tolerate any form of attacks from Governor Emeka Ihedioha and I am charging my supporters to rise up and resist further attacks from the PDP-led government; nobody should intimidate you, Imo belongs to all of us,” he said. Okorocha, who stated that his successor did not win the election that brought him into office, said, “Let me be clear, Emeka Ihedioha did not win elections in this state, but was crookedly handed the mandate. This is why he is going about running government in such a crookedly manner.” Okorocha said Ihedioha did not fulfill the constitutional requirements of winning 25 percent of votes in two-thirds of the local government areas in the state which legitimizes the election of any governor. In reaction to Okorocha’s allegation, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) described the claim as “ridiculous and shameful ranting.” Imo State PDP spokesman Damian Oparah, in a statement said, “It is disgusting to note that the former governor who mismanaged Imo people’s goodwill and left the state dilapidated and massively impoverished in all facets, still had the impudence to appear in public, believing that Imo people have short memory. Okorocha must know that Imo people will no longer tolerate his nuisance.” Late last month, Orlu Elders Council asked Ihedioha, to prosecute Okorocha. Chairman of the group, Francis Dike, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who led a delegation to the office of Ihedioha’s deputy, Gerald Irona, accused Okorocha of looting the state. According to Dike, “Everything was done at shameless quotation of money by Okorocha and his family members. This government should be ready for probe when it leaves and that is why we ask for probe, prosecution of Okorocha and his running dogs.” Recently, Ihedioha accused Okorocha of mismanaging state funds to the tune of N1 trillion. This was after the senator had accused Ihedioha of spending N2.8 billion on monthly environmental sanitation. However, Ihedioha, in his reaction described Okorocha’s allegation as unfortunate. The governor claimed that his administration has been very prudent and sensitive to the plight of the people of Imo State, unlike that of Okorocha that was “notorious for unbridled fiscal recklessness in his time. “Available records show that in eight years, former Governor Okorocha mismanaged about N1 trillion belonging to Imo State. We are taking our time to investigate the numerous atrocities of the last administration and certainly, he must answer for all the evils he did against the people of Imo State.” Two weeks ago, precisely September 6, the governor marked his first 100 days in office at the Cenotaph Centre, Owerri. Stating his achievement in his first 100 days, Ihedioha recalled that during his swearing-in, he pledged to serve the people of the state with honesty, transparency and the fear of God and has not for one day wavered from the commitment. On the Imo Growth and Strategic Development Plan, Ihedioha said: “We constituted a high-powered Transition Technical Committee (TTC) comprising distinguished Imo sons and daughters from both within the state and the Diaspora. This was to harness our huge human and economic resources to set a clear path in our rebuilding process. “The Plan includes the delivery of 381 kilometres of rural access road projects, restoration of an improved Owerri Masterplan, restoration of water supply in Owerri metropolis, roll-out of a State health insurance scheme as well as the reactivation of four technical education institutions in the state. Others include an economic growth and strategic development initiative along 5 sub-themes of; Human Capital Development, Agriculture and Food Security, Infrastructure, Industrialisation and Job Creation, as well as Security and Environment.” On building Institutional Framework for Good Governance, he stressed that “we have set up a structure for transparency and accountability in the governance process. Accordingly, we have signed into law, Executive Order 005, known as Treasury Single Account (TSA) Order to consolidate all government revenues under one account. We have also adopted other measures designed to plug leakages and increase Internally Generated Revenues (IGR) in the state coffers. “Due to these strategic and fiscal responsibility moves, Imo State has gained positive image and is now on track to join the Open Government Partnership league. It also now qualifies for performance-based grants of the World Bank as well as other multilateral development institutions. We are also currently developing the Imo Growth and Economic Development Fund. The fund will be unique in Nigeria and would serve as an investment catalyst for the Imo State economy. “We have approved the restoration of payment of 100 percent salaries to all workers in the state, recalled all unjustly suspended directors, reversed some undeserved promotions and sponsored officers to capacity building programmes.” On rebuilding of collapsed infrastructure, Ihedioha explained that “we inherited a huge swath of collapsed infrastructure. We are happy to inform you that the expanded State Executive Council has approved the award of contracts for the reconstruction of 14 critical roads across the State to relieve the sufferings of our people. These include: Naze-Federal Polytechnic Road-Ihiagwa-Obinze road; Ahiara Junction-Okpala Road; Aba Branch-Ahiara Junction road and the Imo State Teaching Hospital Road. Others include, the Umuowa-Old Orlu Road; MCC-Toronto Road; Mgbidi–Oguta road; Ogwoghoranya-Avutu with spur at Avutu Poultry Farm Road and the Douglas–Emmanuel College-Naze Junction road. “Also captured in this phase of reconstruction are: the Assumpta – Port Harcourt Road; Okigwe Okpara Road-Police Station Road; Control Post-World Bank–Umuguma Road; Okigwe Road-IMSU-Bishop Court Roundabout Road and the Concorde Boulevard Ring Road-Zuma–PH Road. To show that we mean business as usual, yesterday, we embarked on an aggressive flag-off of seven (7) of  these projects. “Just last week, at Onuimo, Isu and Mbaitoli Local Government Areas, we flagged off one of the most ambitious rural road construction projects in the country. Valued at N13.5 billion the World Bank assisted Rural Access and Mobility Project (RAMP), involves over 70 rural road networks with a cumulative distance of 381 kilometers across most of the 27 Local Government Areas of the state. We met the project just on the drawing board; we immediately harnessed the necessary resources to pay the counterpart funding,” the governor added. However, stakeholders have continued to caution Ihedioha, urging him to engage himself in governance instead of fighting his predecessor. A governorship candidate of the Action Alliance (AA) in the 2019 election in the state, Uche Nwosu, recently accused Ihedioha of having no plans for the state. Nwosu, son-in-law to Okorocha, who was reacting to Ihedioha’s insistence that his father-in-law did not properly hand over to him, noted that the action of the governor since he assumed office, had showed that “he is not serious and does not seem to have any cutout plan or blueprint for governance, except the desperation to grab power. “The people of Imo state did not vote for him to start chasing shadows. For the time he will stay as the governor, he should unfold his plans and programmes for the people. No one is interested in excuses, what the people want is performance and nothing less. “The people want concrete statement on what the programmes of the government are, what the government intends to do and how it would deliver dividends of democracy to them and not embarking on a mission to pull down Rochas Okorocha. “The suspension of Local Government Chairmen and their Councilors, dissolving the recently-inaugurated members of boards of government agencies and parastatals and scrapping of recently established tertiary institutions, is definitely a wrong way to start for a government that wants to make headway. “One would have expected that by now, the governor should have engaged the civil servants and tell them what he has for the workers, as well as taken up from where his predecessor stopped. “The acrimonies that could arise from these actions are hardly what Ihedioha needed at this time, he should rather consolidate on the achievements of his predecessor and that is was what Imolites want to see. “He should concentrate on the business of governance If I were the governor today, I will definitely hit the ground running, knowing that there is job to do,” Nwosu, who was part of Okorocha’s administration in the eight years he (Okorocha) held sway, added. Late last week, the governor, who seemed not ready to sheath his sword, accused Okorocha of handing over to him (Ihedioha), a “begging economy”. Ihedioha spoke through a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Chibuike Onyeukwu, after his one-week diplomatic visit to the United States of America. “It was an economic and diplomatic visit to the United States of America, where we had cause to interface with the Congressional Black Caucus. We visited the State Department, we also visited the World Bank, DFID, and, of course, USAID. And we had useful deliberations”, he said. “I promised in the course of our campaigns, that we will look beyond the shores of Imo State to get our state to where we need to be. Imo State is in need of resources and collaboration to enable this administration to create jobs and wealth for its teeming youths and for the people of the State. “The governor said he remains optimistic on the outcome of his visit to the U.S and discussions withheld with development agencies, recalling that his administration inherited a state with a begging economy which necessitated the need to expand the frontiers of the economic base of Imo State.” The governor said that he believed that “There is hope for the state because there is renewed faith and confidence in his administration by the international community who are happy with the progress made so far by his administration in the state. “We are making progress. We’ve made useful contacts and engaged in deliberations we believe will yield positive results in the shortest possible time. “The good news is that they are confident and they are happy with our progress thus far. There is faith and confidence in the government of our state today.” Political observers are watching and hoping that very soon the incessant quarrel between the sitting governor and his predecessor will come to an end soon.