ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday, lauded the German Government for its immense role in assisting Nigeria contain humanitarian crisis, especially in the North East. The president, while receiving letter of credence from the Ambassador of Germany, Birgitt Ory, at the State House, Abuja, described the gesture as invaluable. “The country remains grateful to Germany for the humanitarian interventions in the North East for the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), and the visit of the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, to Nigeria in August 2018, which further strengthened our bilateral relations,” he stated. He said Nigerians eagerly looked forward to investments in infrastructure, especially the power sector, noting that they hoped to see well illuminated homes and stimulation of business activities. The president assured the German companies that the Federal Government would honour terms of agreements on investments in the country. He said the agreements signed with Germany company, Siemens, on power was most welcomed for the country, noting that Nigeria looked forward to partnerships that would be mutually beneficial. In her remarks, the ambassador said it was a great privilege to serve in Nigeria, which had always been her aspiration. She described the country as the biggest and most important country in Africa. “When I came to Nigeria last year in May, which was also my first time in Africa, as soon as I stepped out of the plane, I said this is where I will like to work,’’ she said. Ory congratulated Nigeria for holding two key positions in the United Nations, Deputy Secretary General, Amina Mohammed, and President of the UN General Assembly, Professor Tijani Mohammad-Bande, saying the country’s rising global profile reflected its pivotal role in Africa and West African region. The German envoy assured the president that she would work towards improved relations between both countries, commending him for Nigeria’s role in ECOWAS, with renewed focus on economy and security.