LAGOS – At exactly 9:34pm on Wednesday, September 11, the big bird conveying the Nigerian returnees, a Boeing 777 with the registration number: 5N-BWI touched down at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos with only 178 returnees. When the aircraft door was opened for them to disembark, they all wore gloom faces, depicting the frustration and mal-treatment they went through in the hands of their fellow African brothers. They all have tale of woes to tell, but they were in high spirit. Many of them praised the Nigerian Government especially the management of Air Peace for coming to their rescue. However, many of them appear to be in dilemma over the strength of Nigerian economy. Some of the returnees, who had spent close to 15 years in South Africa, confided in our reporter the fear of how to cope with Nigerian economy which they claimed has not changed from what led them into ‘exile.’ They are calling on government to provide basic amenities for its citizens and ensure that youths are adequately employed. Some of them in an interview with journalists also decried that the South Africans were fierce in their attacks against Nigerians, going from house to house, shops to shops, looting and burning whatever they saw as businesses belonging to Nigerians. Some claimed that all they had laboured to gather together in South Africa did not return with them, wondering on where to start all over again. It would be recalled that Air Peace, a private carrier owned and managed by Mr. Allen Onyema, had offered to bring back the Nigerians home free of charge. Over 600,000 Nigerians, many with expired travelled documents, offered to return to their fatherland. They were tired of the persistent killings and attacks in South Africa despite their contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Air Peace was supposed to airlift at least 327 of them in the first batch. The returnees were boarded after going through the rigorous profiling from the South African Immigration. The aircraft was taxiing to take off only for the South African authorities to call back the aircraft for another round of profiling of Nigerians onboard. After the second profiling, only 178 of them were allowed to return to Nigeria in the first batch, while others were de-boarded. The estimated 2pm time of arrival could no longer hold. It was glaring that the South African authorities intentionally were frustrating the Nigerians and Nigerian government. Mrs. Abike Dabiri Erewa, the Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, could no longer conceal her frustration. Dabiri-Erewa had arrived at the hajj and cargo area of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos as early as 10am in anticipation of the 2pm estimated time of arrival. In an interview with journalists, she regretted the action of the South African Government and hoped that the country would reciprocate the same olive branch extended to by the Nigerian Government. She said: “South Africa is frustrating the Nigerian Government. Nigeria will continue to preach love and we hope South Africa will reciprocate that. “Even when the aircraft was taxiing to take off, the South African authorities still stopped the aircraft from taking off. They had to conduct another round of profiting on some of the boasted passengers.” What Led To Nigeria-South Africa Diplomatic Relationship Nigerians have been travelling into and residing in South Africa since the end of apartheid regime in early 1990s and contribute their quota to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of that country. Reports claim that Nigeria has the highest number of medical doctors in South Africa. Some professionals who were trained in Europe and America found succour in South Africa, which is dominated by the Zulu tribe with about 8.5 per cent of white and other colour people. In fact, to some, South Africa is their second home. The comfort and opportunities they could not find back in Nigeria are at their doorsteps. There are rewards for hard work. They seized the opportunity offered in the Southern African country to expand their horizon – creating jobs and employing thousands of workers. The Beginning Of Xenophobic Attack The dark era to all these progress and opportunities first reared its ugly head in 2008 when some South African blacks embarked on first major attacks on their fellow blacks, claiming they are taking and shrinking the opportunities meant for them. The attack was christened xenophobic. Since then, attacks on fellow black men have not abated, rather growing gradually, but the latest one seems to be the straw that broke the camel’s back. Black South Africans trooped to the streets to violently engage in another round of attack against blacks and this time around with much focus on Nigerians. Tens of souls were openly decimated, maimed, killed and properties destroyed with the alleged connivance of their government. Since the spate of attacks grew, Nigerians in that country sought refuge in different uninhabitable abode and made up their minds to return home, but not after numerous losses and sorry tales. Most Youths Migrated To South Africa In Search Of Greener Pasture Reports gathered recently confirmed that most of the unofficial 400, 000 Nigerians residing in South Africa left the shores of Nigeria in search of greener pastures. About 50 per cent of them are graduates of various higher institutions of learning; 30 per cent completed their Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE); 10 per cent travelled to the Southern African country for continuation of their education, while the other 10 per cent were secondary school dropouts. But, they all have one thing in common – improvement of their social status. They wanted a better living condition for themselves, immediate and extended families. Most of them are breadwinners in their various families. They Kill Nigerians, Keep Them In Mortuary – Osun State Returnee Mr. Aliyu Saheed, a returnee who hails from from Osun State, debunked the claim in some quarters that no Nigerian was killed. Saheed insisted that many Nigerians were murdered in the country and thrown into pits with the South African police in active connivance with the attackers. “Anyone that says no Nigerian was killed is economical with the truth. Many of us were murdered in the open, thrown into various pits and put in the morgues. “The South African police connived with these animals. They see us being attacked, yet, they will do nothing about it. They will rather drive or walk pass. It is dastardly act that our government should rise against. We can’t continue to play the big brother Africa role without a voice to bark or teeth to bite when the need arises. Many Nigerians are still hiding in various places. “They are killing my people. Yesterday (Wednesday) another Nigerian died. They tell social media that Nigerians did not die, it is a lie. They are killing Nigerians. They keep them in the mortuary. Some are there dead in the bush. “Lockup shops, they burnt all the cars inside, wickedness. They come together; they started breaking the shops, burning the shops, stealing things there. An average South African is a thief and drug addict.” I Left My Wife, Children In South Africa – A Plumber One of the returnees, Adeleke Adebayo, said he left South Africa without informing his wife and children. He had married a Cameroonian in South Africa. Adelek, narrating his ordeal, said he moved to South Africa in 2004, precisely 15 years ago. He said he was into plumbing work in that country with arrays of clients. “I relocated to South Africa in 2004 though with visiting visa, but within a year, I regualarised my papers. Since then, I have been visiting Nigeria regularly, but despite our show of love, an average South African does not love foreigners, especially blacks. I was caught in the web of the crisis, but I escaped by the whiskers. “To be candid with you, I didn’t inform my wife and children of my coming to Nigeria. I couldn’t tell them. I was afraid for my life. It was at the airport that I summoned courage to call my wife and children that I was leaving that country. I hope to bring them back to Nigeria when the crisis is abated, but I have to see my mum who has been praying for me daily since these attacks began. I don’t want her to die of hypertension.” They See Us As Usurpers, Govt Should Create Jobs – A Female Journalist Also, Julian Anthony from Edo State who said he was into media production and have been in South Africa for seven years, told our reporter how South Africans were killing freely, accusing Nigerians for taking over their jobs. “It was terrible my brother; we barely escaped with our lives, we were all scared, they go from house to house looking for Nigerians. The apartheid in South Africa is still there. “Many Nigerians were killed unjustifiably. Many of us with open and clear businesses were hated for nothing. They see us as usurpers. They claimed we are taking over their jobs, which is not true. But for real, if the Federal and State governments had created enough jobs for graduates, who will be thinking of leaving Nigeria? Our government has been very repulsive, exposing us to death from another land. It is regrettable.” The Desire To Fulfill My Ministerial Calling In South Africa Is Ruined – Pastor Chizoba Onuoha Chizoba, a pastor hails from Abia State. He had been in South Africa for seven years for pastoral work. He told our reporter that the area he was living in South Africa was the hotbed for the crises. With the available option of choosing between death and ministry, he said was excited when he heard about the free flight back home arranged by Air Peace. “We felt uncomfortable that the best thing we had to do was to return home. Some Nigerians are still there for reasons best known to them. I have to go back to God, now that I have arrived safely. If I had died in the course of this struggle in South Africa, my family would not have seen my dead body.” Ordeal By Air Peace Mr. Allen Onyema, Chairman, Air Peace, said that it was a tough journey from Oliver Tambo International Airport, Johannesburg. He lamented that the aircraft was kept on ground for hours, burning fuel. According to him, the Consul General was always in touch with them and at a time, it was reported that Nigerians who came for the registration to leave were being arrested and requested to give evidence of their permission to enter the country. “I want to implore all Nigerians to be his/her brother’s keeper and I am just thankful to God for giving me the heart for being able to take that decision, it was something I did happily for my nation and in support of the government,” he said.