ABUJA – Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, said on Thursday that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, deserved to be prosecuted for allegedly presenting fraudulent evidence before the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. The minister said this in a statement issued in St. Petersburg, Russian Federation, where he is leading Nigerian delegation at the ongoing 23rd General Assembly of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO). The statement was signed by Segun Adeyemi, the special adviser to the minister. “Instead of casting aspersions on the judiciary with their poorly-framed reaction to the ruling of the Tribunal, the PDP and its candidate should be thanking their stars that they are not being prosecuted for coming to court with fraudulently-obtained evidence. “It is intriguing that a party that trumpets the rule of law at every turn will present, in open court, evidence it claimed to have obtained by hacking into a supposed INEC server. “Don’t they realise this is a criminal act for which they are liable? “Instead of threatening to head to the Supreme Court, driven more by ego than commonsense, they should be sorry for allowing desperation to overwhelm their sense of reasoning. “Enough is enough,” the minister said. Lai Mohammed is the vice president (Africa) of UNWTO. He said Atiku and the PDP should apologise to Nigerians for wilfully distracting President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration with a frivolous election petition, instead of appealing Wednesday’s ruling of the tribunal. “Nigerians are tired of this orchestrated distraction, and will rather wish that the opposition, having lost at the polls and in court, will now join hands with the government to move Nigeria to the next level. “This is more so that the judgement validating the re-election of President Buhari was unanimous that the petition lacked merit, that the petitioners failed to prove any of the grounds upon which their case was anchored, and that President Buhari is eminently qualified to contest the poll,” he said. In response, the PDP yesterday cautioned the minister to be careful in celebrating the judgment of the tribunal as his gloating would be short-lived. The PDP said the judgment was a miscarriage of justice and could not cannot stand at the Supreme Court, given the weight of evidence against President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC). The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said those celebrating this attempt to corrupt the justice system as well as the brazen approval of a clear case of perjury, were directly telling Nigerians something about their conscience and character. “Our party is not surprised that Lai Mohammed, speaking for the Buhari administration, came short of calling for the arrest and prosecution of opposition members for coming before the Appeal Court, a situation which exposed their belief that they own the court and can determine the position of the judiciary on any matter.”