Like an illness whose malignant path has been clinically dissected, another 100 days in the second term of President Muhammadu Buhari has found Nigerians in deep sea beset by inclement weather. Happily enough, President Buhari has assured Nigerians in Abuja on Thursday that the Federal Government will not inflict additional hardship on citizens, rather it will keep seeking ways to ameliorate their sufferings and create a more enabling environment for everyone to thrive. The assurance came a day after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved 7.2 per cent as new Value Added Tax (VAT) rate for the country, up from the current five per cent. Although the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, said consultations were in process over when the new rate would apply. The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) has faulted the move as it said such increment would devalue the N30, 000.00 new minimum wage. It contended that the proposed increase in VAT would reduce the purchasing power of the citizens, lead to increase in prices of goods and services, result in upward movement of inflationary rate and further contract the economy. “On fuel prices, I agree with you on the need to eliminate corruption and inefficiencies in the sector. I want to assure you that, as an Administration, we have no intention of inflicting any additional hardship on Nigerians,’’ President Buhari told  the new executive of Trade Union Congress (TUC) led by its President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, at the State House. The President said the Federal Government remains committed to the implementation of the national minimum wage, pointing out that the inaugural Federal Executive Council (FEC)meeting held on Wednesday focused on the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework, which included discussions around the new minimum wage. “During our first term, we secured the nation’s territorial integrity and continue to protect the lives and properties of our citizens. We introduced various economic stimulus packages that support businesses and traders at all levels, promoted backward integration programmes especially in the agricultural sector to enhance our food security while creating jobs. “We embarked on the most ambitious infrastructure development and rehabilitation projects this country has seen in decades. We also introduced the largest Social Investment Programme in Sub-Saharan Africa. “Although these programmes and many more successfully lifted Nigeria out of recession, the full impact is yet to be felt. In the next four years, we shall sustain this momentum and by the grace of God, lift millions of Nigerians out of poverty,’’ he said. President Buhari, who noted that his administration will work hard to improve the livelihood of citizens, said most of the inherited challenges were avoidable, if some previous governments had been keener on investing on infrastructure and human capacity. “The points you raised are all interconnected. The lack of power and infrastructure due to decades of under-investment led to the closure or inefficient operations of a number of factories across the country. This meant the private sector was unable to create jobs fast enough to cope with our increasing population. “You will agree with me that, all these challenges and many more were long ago left unattended to, thereby leaving the country in the mired state we inherited. You all will also testify to having seen and experienced what we have put in place as an administration to address these challenges,’’ the President added. The President must be told that Nigeria remains a logical scandal: famous abroad because of the international prestige of its leader, but largely derided at home because that prestige cannot translate into an amelioration of Nigeria’s persistent trauma of nationhood. President Buhari is reported to have embarked on at least 52 foreign trips since May 2015 when he was sworn-in for his first term as President till date, expending approximately N4 billion in the process. He is reported to have so far visited 30 countries cutting across four continents, including Africa. According to media reports, Buhari has so far visited 16 African countries, seven Asian countries, five European countries and one country in North America. Among the 30 countries visited by the President, further analysis shows that the United States of America and the United Kingdom topped the list with a record five visits each followed by France, Chad and Saudi Arabia with three visits each. Countries visited twice include Niger, China, Germany, South Africa, Benin, Ghana, United Arab Emirates, Kenya, Senegal and Gambia. The countries President Buhari visited once include Cameroon, India, Sudan, Iran, Malta, Ethiopia, Qatar, Equatorial Guinea, Morocco, Mali, Poland, Jordan, Liberia and Japan. While Buhari visited 30 countries in four years and three months, former President Goodluck Jonathan visited at least 30 countries between 2010 and 2015, while former President Olusegun Obasanjo had a record of 97 countries he visited from 1999 -2007. Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, defended the need for the trips by saying that “those trips by the President are not jamborees, but for the good of the country.” He added that the President embarked on the trips to negotiate with foreign countries on how to repatriate stolen funds stashed in foreign accounts abroad, to seek assistance from world leaders in his administration’s fight against corruption, promote trade and investment as well in the quest to revitalise the country’s dilapidated infrastructure in the areas of rail, power and roads and other critical sectors. Imprisoned by its own contradictions, the Buhari dispensation is also a prisoner of the larger social and political contradictions in Nigeria. The government temporises, hoping that the problems will disappear of their own accord, or that the balance of forces will alter in its favour. Without the bold political reforms necessary to transform the country into a genuine democracy and economic vision to bolster democratic order, Nigeria will remain a permanent transit camp between dictatorship and democracy, a state of transition without transformation.