Lagos – Sport in any sane clime is one of the major vehicles for not just socialisation or friendship but a big industry for shaping and reshaping the lifes and direction of the youth as well as curbing restiveness among them. Having this lofty idea and impression in mind, no doubt, was the reason the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) through the ministry of Youth and Sports came up the with idea of the “National Youth Games (NYG)” which today has come to stay as one of the major national sporting events in the country. Little wonder in the introductory “Background and Policy Context” of the establishment of youth games, the first paragraph states emphatically the stance and importance of youth to the nation and society. “Youth are one of the greatest assets that any nation can have. Not only are they legitimately regarded as the future leaders, they are potentially and actually the greatest investment for a country’s development. Young women and men are, in particular, recognized as a vital resource whose future prospects are inextricably tied to that of their country. “They are the valued possession of any nation or region. Without them there can be no future. They are the center of reconstruction and development. They serve as a good measure of the extent to which a country can reproduce as well as sustain itself. The extent of their vitality, responsible conduct, and roles in society is positively correlated with the development of their country. “For the first time in history, the number of people in the world aged 12 – 24 is the largest ever. According to the World Development Report 2007, there are 1.3 billion people in this age group. Close to 85 per‐cent of this over 1.3 billion young men and women live in developing countries; this figure is projected to increase to 89 per cent by 2025.” Against this backdrop, the ancient city of Ilorin the Kwara State capital has been agog in the past one week for obvious reason – 5th edition of the National Youth Games (NYG) just as about 6,000 athletes have been slugging it out in various sporting events. Emmanuel Okere, Secretary of the Main Organising Committee (MOC), build up to the kick off of the games said that this year’s edition will be different from the previous editions in many ways. “There is going to be a lot of difference from the previous editions. This time around, there will be entertainment at the opening ceremony.” This development he said is to justify the set target of the games: “The mission of the NYG is to combine education and culture with sports. We are inviting artistes that will entertain the athletes.” Another digression from the previous editions as stated by the Okere was that the age of athletes was moved from 15 to 17 in a bid to see higher level of competition where athletes will showcase their talents and skills in different fields. It is in this regard that the defending champions of the NYG, Team Delta and Team Lagos which arguably have the best sporting facilities and opportunities in the country lead other states in the number of athletes entered for this NYG – Delta 400 athletes, Lagos 248 athletes. “We have increased the number of sports from 25 to 34. So far we have over 6,000 athletes who have been registered for this NYG. As usual, Delta and Lagos top the states with the number of athletes,” said Okere. No doubt, age falsification which has been the bane of sports development was to be taken care of as Okere also affirmed, “ measures have been put in place to check age cheats by the states,” just as screening of athletes was done a day before the kick off. This was to avoid the scandal that marred the previous edition where some sates were disqualified on age falsification. However, having weighed and appreciated the importance of the NYG; the crux of the conversation now going forward is getting the foundation right – the preparations of the youths for its target goal and implementing it for the development of sport in the country. Interestingly, Okere made it clear that sport is at its best combining it with education and culture – socialisation vehicle – which can be best developed from the school age. Chief Adegboyega Onigbinde, a renowned sports technocrat and former Super Eagles coach on this ground has time without number emphasised that there must be conscious effort by the various tiers of government to establish a sustained schools’ sport to develop it meaningfully in the country. “Sports development is done in the school from the primary, secondary levels. That is the point at which the right age is discovered and nurtured; that is what must be done if truly we want sport to grow in Nigeria,” Onigbinde said. But the sad narrative is that schools’ sport in Nigeria in recent times has become a history – inter-house sport is barley held in schools presently; schools where it happens, it is like mere leisure – without purpose. In this regard however, Delta and Lagos out of the 36 states remained the only states doing something tangible to develop the youth for sports. Delta to be specific, has a yearly “sport festival” in recent times that brings together youth from schools; that is a major step forward for youth sports development and good number of athletes have been discovered from the process in the likes of Blessing Okagbare, Devine Oduduru among others who are now world contenders. Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, the Delta State Governor ahead of the ongoing NYG has thus, urged Team Delta to ensure they retain the trophy which they won last year which also held in Ilorin, Kwara. Okowa believes the team was well prepared and motivated enough to make the state proud again as the number one in sports in the country. “Since the completion of the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba, we have continued to take steps toward improving sports facilities and enhancing sports development in the state. “As part of our `Stronger Delta’ agenda, sports remain one of the cardinal objectives in our quest to make the state stronger in all spheres. “We have continued to dominate in every facet of sports in the country, because of our sustained investments in the industry and youth development. “We will not relent in harnessing the potentials of abundant talents in our dear state for the good of our nation,’’ He emphasised that Delta State will remain committed to the discovery of young talents in sports and developing them into world champions; Okowa reasoned that there were many underdeveloped talents in the country and therefore called on parents and guardians to help in discovering and developing their children’s talents for the good of the family and the state at large. He also affirmed that government would continue to organise athletics competitions for primary and secondary schools and extend the already existing secondary schools football competition to the primary schools with a view to harnessing talents at a much younger age. In Lagos State, it is axiomatic that sports development in terms of facilities is also at an envious level in the country – a lot sports that are still to be developed in other parts  of the country have their facilities established in Lagos – sports as rugby; beach soccer; canoeing among others. In the days of former Lagos State Governor, Babatunde Fashola, he started the school sport festival for the state called IBILE Games which started in 2015. Today, IBILE Games has continued to turn out good athletes for the state. It is no doubt a development that is helping the growth of sport immensely in the State. The Delta and Lagos States examples are some of the ways that NYG could be made more meaningful and realistic in sports development, if all states are made to key into it through an executive legislation. At the end of the day, the country could have a pool of talents who can become world champions. Otherwise, the NYG imperative as it is for sport development will be made difficult to realise its full potentials as most states are mere participants – their preparations often times are on fire brigade basis as they have no defined sports development programmes.