Benin – Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has expressed satisfaction with Genius Hub Global Initiative, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), for assisting the government in creating jobs for youths and multiplying wealth in the state. Obaseki made the commendation while declaring open a four week summer school programme cum launching of a platform to ease access to loans organised by the NGO to train the youths in skill acquisition. Obaseki, who spoke through Hon. Akhabue the state Commissioner for Wealth Creation, Co-Operative and Employment, whose address was read by Omonbude Oyedoh, Director of Employment in the Ministry, asserted that the launch of the platform was to ease access to loans by the NGO gainers and other business owners. He said: “Apart from lack of managerial skills, one other vital problem to growth and development of MSMEs is lack of capital. “The EDSG-BOI MSME fund consists of contribution of N250m by the State Government, which was marched by Bank of Industry. The State Government waived her proportion of the interest, which still runs for BOI at 5 per cent for term loans (machine), and 6.25 per cent for working capital. Loans that do not exceed N5m do not need presentation of collateral, but guarantors.” The governor also noted that no government or bank would continue to create funds for disbursement when the past fund lost to defaulters. Thanking the NGO for helping the State Government to build the youths skills and capacity, Onajite Ejekakor, the Area Manager ICF Benin Office, said their role was to partner with the NGO to empower the youths, by building their skills and intellects to enable them cater for themselves. He said the aim was to develop small scale industries in the state. Grace Osakwe, the Founder of Girls Power Initiative (GPI), said the essence of the event was to invest in girl child and youth to make faint for themselves. She said building the skills of a girl child would make them avoid travelling to abroad for slavery and sexual trade and thanked Genius hub initiative for training the youths on various skills on how they can make money for themselves. Isimeme Whyte, Founder of Genius Hub global initiative, said since January to September 2019, the NGO had trained 4,500 youths, in 31 communities with small loans interest in Edo state. She disclosed that their focus was to give modern training on skill in various range to equip the youths so that they took responsibility for their life in future. In her opening remarks, Obehi Okpiabhele, the Chief Executive of Genius Hub Global Initiative, said their role was to partner with Edo State Government and other private agencies to train youths on how to make shoe, hair, bag, fashion designed, tailoring, various types of creams and hair fresher to make them self- reliance in society.