ABUJA – Prof Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has urged action on the resuscitation of the long-abandoned United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)-funded Support For Democratic Empowerment ( SDE) phase 1, toward deepening democracy in the country. He made the call when he received the new Resident Representative of the UNDP in Nigeria. Prof Yakubu told his visitors that the programme was planned to commence in 2018- 2019 but regretted that owing to funding needs and pressures on the commission due to the 2019 elections the matter differed. “There is one pending issue that we need to do which is to resuscitate immediately the Support to Democratic Empowerment (SDE) phase 1. “Implementation should have commenced in May 2018 through to December 2019. The plan was not fully implemented for several reasons. Essentially due to pressure at that time because of the 2019 general election as well as the issue of funding. “I’m glad to note that the plan is being revised by our technical teams. We look forward to the work of the two teams and they will jointly implement the recommendations in the current electoral cycle and beyond,” he said as he reassured the UNDP of the full support of INEC. The United Nations and its agencies, especially the UNDP have over the years spearheaded elections and good governance in the country. INEC, Yakubu observed has worked with UNDP in many areas including technical and advisory support on voter registration (2011), formulation and validation of gender policy, the formulation, validation and re-evaluation of the commission’s Communication policy, voter education and publicity, Induction and Retraining of new Recs, printing of the two volumes of election planning in 2017 etc. Earlier, the UNDP Resident Representative had in his remarks said the courtesy visit was meant to announce his arrival in the country and to also reassure the commission of support of the UNDP. He expressed appreciation to the INEC chairman and his team for the work the commission did in modifying a largely peaceful general election in 2019.