AKURE – Major traditional markets including Erekesan Market in Akure, Ondo State capital, were shut on Saturday as the traditional ruler of the city, Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi, Odundun II, commenced on his annual traditional leave. Music and drumming were also suspended in some specific traditional areas in the city throughout the seven days the annual leave of the king would last. Adjoining markets in the city that were not affected experienced more patronage and traders were seen taking their wares home for sales on Friday night before the commencement of implementation of the traditional rules. The Chief Press Secretary to the monarch, Adeyeye Michael, in a statement notified natives and residents of the ancient city that “the annual leave, which is referred to as ‘Ulefunta’, will commence on Saturday 14th September, 2019 and end on Friday 20th September, 2019. “The public is hereby notified that there will be no beating of drum in Akure under any guise throughout the period of the leave. “Equally, in observance of the period, all shops, stalls and market around the Deji’s palace will be under lock and key for the period of the leave. This will not affect other markets, stalls and shops except those around the Deji’s Palace.” Meanwhile, Oba Aladetoyinbo had commenced the Ulefunta festival with a public lecture at Federal University of Technology, Akure, which was delivered by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Mohammad Sa’ad Abubakar. The Sultan, while delivering the lecture entitled: “Our Diversity, A Divine Gift and Blessing Untapped: Wrong Path Trodden and Way To Peace”, posited that the challenge of Nigeria was the inability to manage the diversity in the settings of the nation. Abubakar, who explained that the potentialities of the nationals are different and should be explored to the advantage of the general citizenry, advised that each region should maximise the production of whatever potentialities over which they have comparative advantage for the benefit of the nation in general.