The dust raised by the protest by some youths in Kaduna on June 23, 2019 asking President Muhammadu Buhari to sack his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, and remove his uncle, Mamman Daura, hasn’t settled yet. And it is not likely to settle soon. Kyari and Daura are determined to make political gains out of the protest. The youths had said they were protesting state of insecurity in northern Nigeria, blamed the president’s inability to adequately tackle the insecurity on Kyari and Daura whom they referred to as Presidency Cabal. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network They alleged that, the cabal was also responsible for what they described as low performance of President Muhammadu Buhari in his first four years in office. The youths displayed banners and placards with inscription such as; ‘we need security in Northern Nigeria’, ‘Abba Kyari must go’ and ‘Mamman Daura must go’, among others. They matched straight to the Kaduna residence of Daura, chanting and singing, ‘Abba Kyari must go’, ‘Mamman Daura must go’. The action of the youths remained very controversial in the Presidency. Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, was fingered as the figure behind the plot, and he may not enjoy the sympathy of those at the corridors of power, at least, for now. El-Rufai and the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, were to accompany President Buhari to attend the just-concluded Seventh Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD) in Yokohama, Japan. They were to accompany the President with Governors Babagana Zulum, AbdulRaham Abdulrazaq and Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Borno, Kwara and Lagos states respectively; ministers and other top government officials. Their names were dropped at the last minute, for obvious reasons. Amaechi’s sin was that he did not give Ahmad Lawan the initial support to become the 9th president of the Senate. Until pressure came on Amaechi from reasonable quarters in the All Progressives Congress (APC), his candidate was said to be Senator Ali Ndume. Now, the hawks in the presidency are fighting back, and El-Rufai and Amaechi may be made to pay for their political sins.