Pauline Kedem Tallen, is a frontline Nigerian politician from Plateau State. In 1999, she was appointed Minister of State for Science and Technology to the cabinet of former President Olusegun Obasanjo. In 2007, she became the Deputy Governor of Plateau State and the first woman to be a Deputy Governor in Northern Nigeria. She also contested to be governor of the state in 2011, but lost to Jonah Jang. She is presently the Minister of Women Affairs. In this interview with select journalists, including ONOJA AUDU, she spoke on various issues concerning her ministry, the plight of women and her ministerial appointment for the second time from Plateau State. Excerpts: What should Nigerians be expecting from your Ministry? The Ministry of Women Affairs does not exist or function in isolation. It works in synergy with other ministries as women are spread across board and constitute over 51 per cent of the total population. So, you will agree with me that it is the biggest ministry we have in the country, because it deals with women, and you know the role of women in nation building. The world over has turned to women and children. All of you can give testimonies of what your mothers did to bring you up. Your mothers secured you for nine months. So, the first security is securing the child for nine months before giving birth. After giving birth, she nurtures the child. She is the child’s first teacher. The first socialisation is from the home. For the government to deem it fit to create the Women Affairs Ministry, it shows how special women are. But, the women cannot work without the men. It will surprise you to know that the population of men is more than that of the women in the Women Affairs Ministry. How would you handle the pressure coming from women as the minister that anchors their affairs? Thank you very much. It is not today that I started handling women issues. I have been a lover of women since childhood. My state party chairman (Letep Dabang) was my school mate. You can ask him. I used to fight the boys in my class whenever they touched the girls. I fought the boys to protect the girls in my class. I love women and see them as essence of change; a tool that if encouraged, you’ll get results. The girl-child education is key to me. If you educate a woman, you have educated a nation, and if you give a girl-child good education, you are equipping her for life. You are equipping her to be a good mother; you are equipping her to be a good wife; you are equipping her to be a good citizen, because she’ll know her rights. She’ll know the difference between good and bad and she can protect herself. Violence against women mostly affects illiterate and vulnerable women, who don’t know their rights. But, if you educate the girl-child, she will know her rights. She can protect and defend herself anywhere. So, the girl-child education is key, because once you educate the girl-child, you are equipping her for life. You are equipping her to bring up good citizens, to bring up good sons that are the future leaders. All of you gathered here, if your mothers did not nurture you, protect you, send you to school and support you, you wouldn’t be what you are. The child’s upbringing lies on the mother; so, tell me how much did your fathers do to bring you up? I want Nigerian men to cast back their minds to the roles of mothers from conception: she protects and nurtures the child for nine months, and for two to three years she spends sleepless nights, feeding, backing and clothing the child and taking them to school. How many men do that? How many men breastfeed their children? How many men will know when the child is hungry? Sometimes, if a child is crying some men will say it’s a stubborn child, he wants to disturb me. If a child cries, there must be something disturbing him. It’s either he is hungry or sick. He cannot talk but cry. And the person that understands this language is the mother. So, it can take me the whole day to start listing the significant roles of mothers in nation building. If all of you will cast your minds to them, appreciate women, understand the important roles mothers play, you will all be there for them. You will even clamour for more positions for women because they will do better. They will protect the children. When I said children, I mean all of you. How would you encourage women to occupy more positions at the national and state levels across the country? One of our key functions is advocacy. We advocate for the rights of women, and take statistics and figures of where women are in Nigeria today, where we are going to and where we will be in four years. These are my programmes of action in the next four years. It is an issue that you should all understand and work with us. I am not just going to work with women alone. I intend to work more with men. I want to change the narrative. Women have only been talking to themselves. We have been talking, explaining, and clamoring for the roles of women and whatever. God has given us this special gift. What I see, unless you are a woman, you don’t see. The eyes of a woman are all round. We feel children if they are behind us. You don’t see it, but a woman feels it, and responds to the child, and these are the children that grow up to be adults like you. They grow up to be presidents, they grow up to be ministers and yet you don’t believe in supporting women. We are now going to do more advocacies in a subtle way. I am going to do more work with men to get them on our side in order to advocate and work for the women. We are going to start it early. You are talking about political participation, women’s participation; we are going to do more of mentoring. Another key function I am going to embark on seriously apart from the girl-child education is mentoring the girl-child. Mentoring is very important. We will mentor and prepare them for future offices. Like if a woman wants to contest an election, she has to start by identifying with her constituency. She must identify with their needs. She must share in their problems. She must know her constituency, and be able to find solutions to their problems before aspiring for an elective position. In your little way, what have you done to solve the problems in your community? If the farmers in your village are doing well in farming and having bountiful farm produce to take to the market in the town, you as an educated daughter of the soil, what have you done? Have you called on the administration? Have you called on the chairman of your local government and Councilors to do something about the road so that the farmers can convey their farm produce to the town smoothly?  If you do that, then you are kindling a hope in your people that if given the chance, you will do very well. It is not just waking up one day and going to buy a form and say you want to contest; you will be a stranger to them, but if you start now and identify with them, it’s going to be easy. This is the mentoring we are going to do, to make sure you are identifying with the grassroots.  Every politics is local, and the common man at the grassroots doesn’t expect much. All they want is trust. Be honest and sincere with them. If it comes with need, help find solution to their needs. If their hospitals have no drugs or the healthcare clinic within the community, have you called on the chairman of the local government, that drugs should be supplied or good doctors? Have you called on the traditional rulers, and asked for their problems – whether there are schools or not, or enrollment of pupils but there are no teachers or children sitting on the floor with no seats? Or there are no good blackboards for the teachers to write on, or the teachers sit on the windows? What have you done as a good citizen? Have you approached the community leader? Have you approached the authority? If you go as a patriotic daughter of the community and say Mr. Chairman, I am here to speak on behalf of my community. Please I visited school A, B, but there were no teachers, no learning materials and the pupils were roaming about. I went to clinic A, B, there were no nurses or doctors and no drugs in the clinics. These are things when you identify within your community and you speak out, the community will say this is a good leader, if we give her the opportunity, she will represent us well. The women that want to contest should not just come out at the last minute as strangers or they think they have money, even if you have money, money is good, but not everything. You must win the confidence of your people first. So, these are the enlightenment s we are going to prepare our young girls and women that are interested in politics to start early. What about the role money plays in the contemporary Nigerian politics? The next thing is money. You cannot do politics without money. Moving from point A to point B requires money. Mobilising people too requires money. You cannot mobilise people and don’t give them water to drink or meal to eat. We will cry out and move for income generating activities to equip the women and support them with credit facilities to prepare them for their businesses or whatever field they want to go into. You will agree with me that women use credit facilities better. You remember the loans we gave to women early this year, over 1,600 and the 200 that we trained in cosmetology and gave them items to start their business; they are doing well because women are meticulous. They use their money very well. Whatever a woman gains, it is her family that enjoys it. She buys food for her children; if her child is sent back home for school fees, she will go and pay. She does not leave her child hungry. Even a mad woman on the street, if she gets money, she buys food to come and feed the baby before she eats. But men, if loans are given to you, you know what you do with it. How are you going to tackle the issue of violence against women in Nigeria? I am going to tackle it very well. I will reach out to international communities and the United Nations. They are very interested in curbing violence against women. Violence against women is completely unacceptable. I condemn it in totality. With prayers, we will come out and speak out against it. Violence against women is violence against the society, because women are mothers. You are destroying the people that nurtured and brought you up. And that is crime in its entirety. How did you receive your appointment as a minister? Were you expecting it? I wasn’t expecting it. But, I was prepared to accept the will of God at anytime. I offer my life to the service of my country. I never lobbied for it. I believe and trust in God and any time I pray, I offer myself as His handmaid so that His will, will be done in my life. God knows me more than I know myself and He knows what I can do. And I believe my appointment as the Minister of Women Affairs is divine. And the same God that sent me to this Ministry will equip me with all that I need to make a difference. That is my confidence, that I am sure, because my faith is unshakeable. Ministers from Plateau State have always been at loggerheads with their governors in the past. How do you intend to correct this for the benefit of the state? By the almighty grace of God, ministers being at loggerheads with the governors would become stories of the past. It will never happen at my time by the grace of God. You know how I managed it well during my first term as a minister. You knew my stand and how I worked with the then governor. I never went out of my ways to fight former Governor Joshua Dariye, and I will never. The governor is in charge of Plateau State as the chief executive. His functions are clear. I am a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Mr. President appointed one minister from every state. Every state has a minister, and then there are additional ones for each zone. If you remember during my first ministerial appointment, I was representing North Central and Hon. Damishi Sango was representing Plateau. We were two. Now, Kwara has two; one representing the state and the other the zone. Every zone has one additional Minister. I am assuring you and by the grace of God my words will stand. It takes two to quarrel. I will never quarrel with my Governor, Simon Lalong. You saw the reception he gave to me on the day of the inauguration. You heard what I told you when the new Chief of Staff was here to see me. I appealed to all of you to give him the necessary support to succeed. I am still appealing to all the people of Plateau to give the necessary support to my governor. The progress of Plateau is paramount to all of us. Our functions do not clash in any way. I as minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I am number one ambassador of Plateau at the federal level. My work is like an ambassador. I am representing the state at the national level. I am a messenger that’s in-between. If I bring what I get at the federal to the state, the credit goes to the president and the governor, because it is the governor that is in charge of the state. So, the governor should pamper me as his messenger. The governor should embrace me, and I will embrace him as my governor. We will work together because there will only be progress if there is unity. If there is no unity, there will be no progress. There will be development in a place when there is peace, unity and understanding. I want to assure you, and for all of you that know me, I am not a tribalist. I have no business with crime. I have no business with religious bigotry. I have no business with ethnicity and I see all of you as brothers and sisters because we are all children of God, created in God’s image. So, none of you should say I did not come from here or there. Mr. President didn’t care about where I come from. He appointed me because he has confidence in me and wanted me to work with him. I must embrace all the sons and daughters of Plateau as may own. I have no reason or business to attach myself to a particular religion. In all the offices I held, all my staff were balanced. I pick those I trust, and those that can work with me. I don’t care where they come from. Federal appointment must have federal character. If I am representing Plateau, I can take anyone from anywhere. That is how to make this country united. That is how to encourage peace and peaceful coexistence. My assignment is to do what I can to all citizens of Plateau. I should not attach myself to any group. Fairness and justice are ingredients of peace. If you want peace, you must be fair and just and transparent. May God touch your hearts to be fair and just and to report correctly. What is your call to women in Nigeria? My call to Nigerian women is to pray for the good health of Mr. President. We must pray for the unity of Nigeria. We must pray for the uplifting of womanhood. If the woman is uplifted, the family will be uplifted and the country because the woman is the heart of the family. Women must be supported; women must be empowered to have their rightful place in the society, so that we can have even development, so that we can have power. Women are the greatest advocates of peace. If there is crisis and war, it is the women that suffer. Their husbands are killed; their children are killed. So, women are the vanguards of peace.