Chief Ndukwe Iko, a stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Abia State, in this interview with some journalists, spoke on the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari at the election tribunal, saying it was deserved. He also spoke on the xenophobic attack on foreigners in South Africa and other issues. CHIBUIKE CHUKWU brings the excerpts: How did you react to President Buhari’s victory at the presidential tribunal? The tribunal spoke what Nigerians said at the election. It was a deserved victory. Right from time, I knew Atiku was wasting his time and money because Nigerians freely elected the president. I will advise him to use the victory to unite Nigerians. He should use the victory to bring economic and social succour to Nigerians in order to justify the confidence of Nigerians. What do you think is fueling the sustained xenophobic attack in South Africa and do you think South African government is involved as has been alleged in some quarters? I won’t support the popular belief that Government of South Africa is supporting this dastardly act. But if they are involved, it is too bad and they are going against the struggle where many of them lost their lives. They are going against the struggle that made Nelson Mandela spent 27 years in prison and destroyed humanity. If you begin to kill your fellow human being because you lack economic opportunity, it is bad. Nigerians are haunted everywhere; it happens in Cameroon, Ghana, even in Cotonou. It is unfortunate because Nigeria played major role towards the end of apartheid, contributing almost 50 percent of resources needed to dislodge the whites and establish majority rule in that country. But do you think FG has shown demonstrable commitment to protecting Nigerians everywhere? I believe the government is doing better this time than the earlier xenophobic attacks on Nigerians. For almost 20 years Nigerians have been facing the xenophobic attack in South Africa but the difference now is that other nationals are also attacked. But I hope government should diplomatically do more to halt the problem. Nigeria should do more to have the right figures of Nigerians living outside this country. Then know what each and every one of them does. The election tribunal in Abia State recently nullified the election of Orji Uzor Kalu as the senator representing Abia North. How did you receive the news given that he is your friend and political mentor? It wasn’t strange news to me. I know that after the election that Senator Mao Ohuabunwa would go to court. I was in the collation room, I spoke with him and we greeted. I knew the feeling and the general response to the result from his camp tilted towards going to court. But we the APC in Abia North knew that we have legitimate victory that will stand the test of time. If we will have to go to a rerun after the Appeal Court ruling, I know Orji will thrash Ohuabunwa. What gives you such confidence? Abia North is made up of five LGAs namely Umunneochi, Isiukwuato, Bende, Ohafia and Arochukwu. Before now and each time there was an election, Orji would cruise to victory in Bende. He will struggle a little in Ohafia and Arochukwu. But Isiukwuato and Umunneochi will present a fierce battle between the leading parties. But this time was different. This is because in Isikwuato, we have the Honorable Minister of Mines and Steel in Dr. Samson Uchechukwu Ogah. It is his local government. He delivered that LGA for the party and for our candidates. Then to Umunneochi, we have a strong political figure in Nigeria today in Honourable Nkeiruka Onyejiocha. In Bende, Orji’s home LGA, he always wins there, and coming to Ohafia, he has people like us. We will always deliver Ohafia to APC. Coming to Arochukwu, Orji has never lost in that local government in a fair and free election. So we don’t have fears and that is the basis for my confidence. As an APC stalwart, what do you make of Buhari’s cabinet? I don’t expect much from the cabinet. When Sanwo-Olu brought out his commissioners’ list, I was so impressed because of the caliber of people I saw on that list. If you compare it with the federal ministers, you will see a very big gap. You have technocrats who can change things in Lagos in that cabinet but the president’s own was just like a compensatory arrangement for politicians. He did not pull out people that could change things in this country. It is the opinion of many that governance in your home state of Abia is very poor; what is your take on that? It is a pity that things are like they are in Abia at the moment. I have met governor Ikpeazu several times and in each of our meetings, I have always been very frank and open to him. I have always told him that being the governor is an opportunity for him to stamp his feet on the sands of time. I told him that the Ngwa clan had been clamouring to govern Abia State and that he had been the chosen one to occupy that position. I told him that if he allows eight years to go without any noticeable achievement, history would judge him very badly. Ikpeazu should put his acts together and deliver good governance in Abia State. Majority of Abians I interact with everyday are not happy with the state government’s performances in so many aspects. Perhaps the biggest sin of the governor, as some people have been saying, is non-payment of salaries… ..(Cuts in) Look I am an employer of labour and I know how painful it is if you don’t pay your workers. The biggest problem with the people in governance is mediocrity. It is a big evil for somebody to work for you for 30 days and you refuse to pay him. How do you expect him to feed his families or take care of his bills? I don’t see a governor that should sleep well not paying his workers’ salaries. It is evil. But do you think that this non-payment of salaries will galvanise support to the APC in the state in the next election? Yes, it can turn the table to APC but we are not saying that Ikpeazu should not pay salaries so that we will win the state. Let him do the right thing and we have so many problems in Abia State that one can campaign on and win governorship election in the state. It may be too early to talk about this but do you think Igbos are well organised to stake a claim for the presidency in 2023? 2023 is still a long way to go but I think the game has started after the last election. The east is not politically strong enough to aspire for presidency. As a politician, I can tell you that to aspire for presidency, you need a strong political structure; you need a national outreach and other factors like finance. You need a lot of handshake across regions. Yorubas are better positioned than the Igbos for the presidency going by the government of today. They are controlling more than 40 percent of governance where you have a vice president, speaker of the House from the southwest. Out of the four top offices, they have two. The highest position the southeast is enjoying in the National Assembly is the chief whip, which is even a party position, not even a national position. So it is very difficult for them in 2023.