Lagos – Players in the Nigerian aviation industry have identified political interference in the running of the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) as one of the major reasons its safety recommendations are not in the public domain. Participants at the Quarterly Business Breakfast Meeting (BBM) Quarter Three held by the Aviation Safety Round Table (ASRTI) in Lagos with the theme: ‘Advantages of Implementing AIB Recommendations,’ also said that it was pertinent for AIB and the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to work in synergy for the growth of the industry in Nigeria.
Dr. Sam Oduselu, the pioneer Commissioner of AIB, in his presentation said that said that the Ministry of Aviation in most cases refused to allow the safety recommendations of AIB to get to the public domain.
He explained that at times, such safety recommendations would be at the ministry for about three years without implementation, which made implementation of such recommendations almost impossible.
Oduselu, declared that as an autonomous agency, AIB should not be responsible to the ministry, but rather to the President and the National Assembly.
He also said that rather than work in isolation, AIB should collaborate with NCAA to bring out safety recommendations to the public, which he said would further boost implementation of safety recommendations.
He said: “The stereotype is that investigators are compromised, but I believe investigators can’t be compromised anymore in this country. If you give autonomy, the autonomy must be allowed to work. We usually sit down together with NCAA to have recommendations.
“The unfortunate thing is that reports are written, but they are never in the public domain. The safety recommendations of AIB were written and ended up in the ministry. That is why it is necessary for AIB as autonomous body to go beyond the ministry.”
Besides, Dr. Harold Demuren, a past Director-General, NCAA, observed that there was stiff competition between agencies in Nigeria, including AIB and NCAA.
He explained that the Annex 13 of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) only gave AIB the power to investigate the cause of an incident or accident, make recommendations, but not to force implementation.
Demuren emphasised that regulator must evaluate the safety recommendations of AIB, using the risk-base approach, which included cost and time of implementation.
“It is not about the amount of recommendations that matter, but the quality of such recommendations. When you make such recommendations, you should be able to look at the cost and risk of recommendations,” he said.
But, Engr. Akin Olateru, the Commissioner, AIB in his presentation however differed with some of the positions of the participants at the event.
Olateru, who was represented by Mr. Tunji Oketunbi the General Manager, Public Affairs, AIB insisted that both NCAA and AIB could not sit down together to come out with safety recommendations in case of an incident or accident.
Olateru declared that in case of an incident or accident everyone including NCAA was a suspect.
He, however, said that the relationship between NCAA and AIB was over 70 per cent robust, stressing that AIB could only send out safety recommendations to the industry, while the onus of implementation lied with NCAA.
According to him, some of the safety recommendations of AIB had helped to prevent accident in the globe, but wondered why some industry players in Nigeria were reluctant to implement its safety recommendations.
Engr. Nnamdi Udoh, the former Managing Director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) said that to implement the Annex 13 of ICAO, the leadership of AIB must be experienced, bold and purposeful.
He called for full implementation of Safety Management System (SMS) in the country’s aviation industry, warning that without this, the sector would not grow.
“Accident investigation is a learning process and not a destination. AIB must make recommendations that are implementable,” he said.