The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has concluded plans to host the 2019 edition of the Presidential Policy Dialogue today in Lagos.
As part of its public-sector engagement programmes, the Chamber initiated the “Presidential Policy Dialogue” to create a platform for the organised private sector and the Federal Government to deliberate on the state of the nation, public policy initiatives of government and their effects on the economy of the nation.
The dialogue, which is billed to hold at Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, is expected to bring together key government officials and major players in the organised private sector spanning across various sectors of the economy.
The dialogue session would also explore collaboration possibilities and possible synergy between the Private Sector and the government.
The Forum will bring together captains of Industry, leaders of the private sector, as well as members of the diplomatic corps to deliberate on issues bothering on the economy, as they relate to the mandate of the present administration to take it to the next level.
According to Muda Yusuf, Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) “This initiative from the Chamber is in furtherance of its public policy advocacy.
The Chamber believes that through engagements such as this, the government and the organised private sector can identify and address issues affecting the growth of our economy with a view to proffering long-lasting solutions to them.
He added that, the way out of the present economic and prevailing social crises for Nigeria is collaborative engagements such as this, because there can’t be real economic growth without the government working in tandem with the private sector.”
Yusuf also hinted that the event, which is a high-profile one, will feature His Excellency, the Vice President of Nigeria, Professor YemiOsinbajo, GCON as Keynote Speaker. While the President of the Chamber, Mr. Babatunde Ruwase will chair the event as Chief Host.