LAGOS – The Kwara State Government on Friday allayed the fears of residents of the state over the collapsed Geri Alimi underpass, assuring that contractor has been directed to effect necessary repairs.
This was contained in a statement by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Works and Transport, Dr. Yusuf Garba Manjo and made available to newsmen.
The state government explained that the crack of some slabs and some portion of the carriageway was due to some damage to the 800mm water pipe and the resultant water leakage around the multi-billion naira project.
The government also said it was not true that the development could lead to the collapse of the bridge, insisting it was a fault already being attended to.
The statement reads: “This is to inform the general public that the depression of transition slab and some portion of the carriageway along Olorunshogo axis at Geri Alimi Diamond Split Interchange and underpass was caused by the deflection of one of the joints of the 800mm rising main water pipe feeding western reservoir tank at Adewole.
“The deflection of the 800mm pipe resulted into leakages at the joint which leaked pressurised water to the Olorunshogo axis of the carriageway, inclusive of the underneath transition slab, resulting into the minor rotation of the transition slab to Bridge A (airport axis).
“Consequently, the contractor has been directed to effect necessary repair and the remedial work has commenced since Wednesday 25th September 2019.”
Meanwhile, the deputy governor of the state, Kayode Alabi, has expressed displeasure over the poor quality of job carried out at the underpass, which resulted in noticeable cracks on the infrastructure, which was inaugurated in May by the last administration.
Alabi, during an unscheduled visit to the underpass frowned at the alleged shoddy job done on the project, stating that the collapse of the water pipe, which resulted in deflection of water in the area, mirrored the poor quality of job on the bridge.
He warned that such act would not be condoned by the new administration in view of the huge sum of money spent on the construction of the bridge by the immediate past administration.