LAGOS – The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has budgeted N252.2m as research grant for higher institutions in the country. This was disclosed by Prof. Umar Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman of Commission yesterday in Abuja. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He said the research grant was available for members of the academia who were conducting research on issues that related to the development of the telecommunications industry. Danbatta , who was represented by Dr. Haru Alhassan , Director, New Media and Information Security, disclosed this at a stakeholders forum with the academia in Abuja, which was attended by Vice Chancellors of several public and private universities in the country. He noted that the number of grants awarded by the NCC depended on budgetary provision, saying “The commission has research portfolio size of N252.2m. “In year 2013, the commission only awarded one research grant, and there had been minimal annual increase in subsequent years. However, last year under my watch, the total number of Research Grants given increased to 11 from the previous year of 7 awards in year 2017.” The commission’s funding for research and development was in accordance with global standards, he added. The NCC has identified academia as “critical stakeholders,” in the telecoms sector, Danbatta observed. To further encourage research works that could impact positively on the development of the industry, the NCC is to offer Research Fellowship positions to deserving members of the academic community. “We intend to offer Research Fellowship positions for in- depth research and exploration of problems the industry is facing whilst improving the researchers’ experience of the industry,” the NCC EVC said. Already, a national steering committee made up of the National Universities Commission, the National Board for Technical Education , the academia, and industry operators had been set up to develop a roadmap that would ensure that academic researches addressed local industry needs and tertiary institutions produce “industry –ready” graduates.