Chief Segun Ajibulu is a United States-based pro-democracy activist. In this interview with YAQOUB POPOOLA in Ado-Ekiti, he spoke on a number of issues, including the xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa. He also condemned the alleged clandestine moves by some forces in Aso Rock to ostracise the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. Excerpts: As a Nigerian living in the diaspora , how did you receive the news of the unfortunate incident in South Africa? Well, it is a very sad commentary and I don’t expect any civilised nation or group of individuals to behave in such a bestial manner. Why are they acting as if they were still in the primitive age?. And for us as Nigerians ,it is multiple tragedies .Because when you look at what is happening in the country today in terms of insecurity .We have lost many people to Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen attacks and even kidnappings. So, to see our fellow countrymen still killed like goats in a country like South Africa is least expected . I don’t subscribe to the claim that Nigerians who lived there do engage in shady deals. Even at that, is the South African authorities saying there no law for such crimes, if any? .Why do they allow their citizens to resort to self-help? It is a condemnable act .It shall remain until the South Africa Government come out clearly to do the needful. Do Nigerians experience similar treatment in the hands of the white people in the US? At some point, you suffer racism and hate but it has not gotten to the primitive level like what is happening in South Africa .At times you will be walking on the streets and somebody will tell you ‘hey you Africans ‘ Go back to your country “. How are you coping with the incessant threats? First and foremost you need to give good account of yourself. There are many Nigerians out there doing great things and are contributing to economic of other countries. Nobody will harass or threaten them. Another thing is that one must to respect a d obey the laws .Once you fo these nobody will harass you unnecessarily. What advice do you normally give Nigerians willing to return home from.? Our message is simple, we always tell them when you get back home try to change them so that the system can work, like the one have here but the addition to the message is that ” If cannot change them then join them “ Are you satisfy with steps taking so far the Nigerian Government since the wake of this crisis? Let me start by commending spirited Nigerians who have risen in support of our countrymen in South Africa .I think efforts like these would strengthen the bond of unity in Nigeria. I could see the joy in the faces of these young Nigerians to return to their father land. Yes ,I must also appreciate the government ‘s intervention towards helping the returnees to settle down. But one thing must be said no amount of money given to these returnees would make impact in their if the government fails to fix the economy .Give then N2milion today in another few months the money is gone because the economy is not working yet. What is your take on the alleged plot by some forces in Aso Rock to gag the Vice President ? For me, I don’t see the issue from that perspective. Mr. President might want to assist Osinbajo so that he is not tied down unnecessarily in Aso Rock. It would be stupid for anyone to think that Osinbajo would not aspire to be the President. And if he wants to run, he needs more time to move around. Once they relieve him of some tasks, I think he would have the time to attend to his own matter. What about the formation of the Economic Advisory Committee? It is a welcome development. When you look at the calibre of the people in that committee I there are round pegs in round holes. But I hope Mr. President would listen them anyway .Because, some of their advice might be too bitter to swallow. Dont you think the Osinbajo’s rising political profile has become a threat to some interests in the villa? Well, one bitter truth about our Vice President, Professor Osinbajo is that this man enjoys wider acceptability among Nigerians .We all know that President Buhari is serving out his second term mandate by 2023. And the wish of every politician is to aspire to higher position of responsibility. So if Osinbajo is nursing that ambition to succeed Buhari, I don’t think it is a crime. You can see how he relates with his boss with utmost honesty and sincerity of purpose .And the volume of love and respect he enjoys from the various ethnic blocs in Nigeria is unparalleled. So, for me, I don’t think there are plots targeted at him for now. Could please let us into your activities in the diaspora before and during the trying times of the nation’s struggles for democratisation.? Well, I have been involved in Nigeria struggle for the enthronement of democracy since 1970s. And I soon as I got to Europe ,I was also interested in the politics at the home front in Nigeria, most especially in Ekiti State .So, in the 1990s during the Ibrahim Babangida era of political abracadabra ,I was the coordinator of Chief Olu Falae Campaign Group in the diaspora .Even before then ,I have formed many pressure groups in the Diaspora .For example ,I was a co-founder of the Nigerian Democratic Awareness Committee in the Washington DC .I was a member of Nigeria Patriotic Association . I was among the Nigerians in the Diaspora who led demonstration against the Buhari-Idiagbon ‘s administration when it was so brutal in Nigeria.