LAGOS – When the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) commenced operation on June 4, 1973, with the inauguration of the National Directorate Headquarters and six weeks later on July 2, 1973, the pioneer participants were called up to commence service, a mere 2,364 graduates from the then six existing Universities in the country started the programme. 46 years down the line though, NYSC has been meteoric in growth, size, and operation in pursuant to its mandate. From 2,364 at inception, the scheme now mobilizes over 300,000 participants yearly. As of 2018, four million seventy-one thousand five hundred and eighty-one Nigerian youths have participated in the Scheme. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The goal at inception was to involve Nigerian graduates in nation-building and the development of the country, and the morale of corps members and aspiring corps members was undoubtedly high. It was to be an avenue for the reconciliation, reconstruction, and rebuilding of the nation after the civil war. This ultimately means that the intent of NYSC was to foster national unity among the youths that would invariably become the leaders of tomorrow, among other things. Unfortunately, that vision by the initiators of the scheme has become overridden by the many problems that besiege the scheme. Unlike many other countries, there is no military conscription in Nigeria, so graduates of universities and later polytechnics have been required to take part in the National Youth Service Corps program for one year. By normal procedure, corps members are posted to states other than their state of origin where they are expected to mix with people from different ethnic groups, social and family backgrounds, and learn the culture of the indigenes in the location they are posted to. Asides the three week orientation period that is spent in a military-controlled camp, at the passing out ceremony, corps members are posted to their Place of Primary Assignment (PPA) in the different towns and villages in the state where they are expected to work as full-time staff at their PPA with the exception of one working day devoted to the execution of the Community Development Service (CDS). After 11 months at their PPA, corps members are allowed one month of vacation before their final passing out ceremony where they would be issued certificates of completion. Every graduate under the age of 30 is eligible to serve, while those above 30 at the time of graduation will be given a Certificate of Exemption, which is also equivalent to the NYSC Discharged Certificate. A graduate who leaves the school before 30 years but skipped the service year will still be eligible to serve even if he wants it at the age of 60, since his certificate of graduation was dated before he clocked 30 years of age. A graduate of the country or a citizen of Nigeria who attended a foreign institution can’t request for exemption by themselves, unless they are disabled, have served in the military or paramilitary for a period of more than one year or have exceeded the age of 30 years when they graduated. Part-time graduates are also given Exclusion Letter, since they’re not allowed to serve. In the decades that followed its creation, not only was it a dream come true for many graduates of higher institutions to serve, it was a source of pride to don the NYSC uniform and be called ‘Ajuwaya’ or ‘Corper’ while serving Nigeria. That morale has today, dwindled massively for diverse reasons. While on paper, the process may look smooth and simple; the system has become perverted, with the perversion running across board, from the officials to the corps members, present and past. Asides the fact that over the years many lives have been lost as a result of the scheme, many consider it a waste because of the level of corruption that has permeated the scheme’s system. The rising mortality rate of youth corps members across the federation has become a fixture in the news, as every other day, corps members are sent to an early grave in an unnatural manner. Every now and then, news of corps members dying or being killed makes headlines and become part of a growing statistic. While some die in the orientation camps due sometimes to negligence or the rigours of the tasks they are put through, others are killed at their places of primary assignment accidentally or deliberately. The corps members that were lost during the 2019 general elections remain fresh in people’s memory. The story of Precious Owolabi, who was caught in the crossfire when members of the Shiites, an Islamic group, protested in Abuja cannot be left out of this report. Consequently, for many, NYSC has become the nation’s curse with many calling for it to be put to an end. Parents and guardians, in order to beat the system, collectively spend millions of naira influencing NYSC posting, especially to prevent posting to troubled parts of the nation. Many corps members themselves have even perfected the art of being ‘ghost corpers’. To make things worse, rumours reaching Saturday INDEPENDENT allege that corps members now have to pay before collection of certificates. However, according to a Zainab Mohammed, who passed out of the scheme in July 2019, explained that “Corpers are compelled to pay for the yearly magazine gotten after the completion of service, not the certificate. I didn’t pay for my certificate; I only paid N1000 for the magazine. Some corpers including me paid for the yearly magazine and didn’t get while some didn’t actually pay and got a copy of the magazine. On the day of the passing out parade, they were simply sharing the magazine randomly. We paid the money at our local government offices before the passing out parade day, though we were not issued receipts. The money could have gone anywhere.” Mohammed also shared the new structure with which the scheme operates. “Corpers are posted in batches ranging from Batch A, B and C. For each batch there are two streams, Stream one and two. For Batch A, Stream one was mobilised in April while Stream two came in May. Batch B, Stream one was mobilised in July while Stream two was mobilised in August. For Batch C, the two streams were mobilised between October and December. This translates to the fact that six times a year, new corps members join the scheme and are processed out of the scheme. In reality, these are more than a 100,000 youths being churned out every year. Ayodeji Adepegba, a serving corps member, however, believes that the scheme is still as relevant as the day it was created. “It’s just because the nation is not paying attention to the scheme. It is the solution to Nigeria’s problems. I schooled all my life in the south and I have never been to other areas of the country. Without NYSC, I’d have never experienced other parts of the nation or their culture. If I become Nigeria’s president tomorrow, how do I make policies that would benefit the entire country when I don’t know other cultures or ways? NYSC is Nigeria’s solution for nationhood and unity.” Also weighing in on the matter is Esther Kanu, who served in Akamkpa in Cross River State. “NYSC cannot be scrapped. There are some people that will never let it be scrapped. Before posting came out, my parents did their best to ensure that I was posted to Lagos, Abuja or even Ogun State where I have family members, but I was still posted to Obubra Camp. I complained all the way when my parents said I had to go. It was until I got to my local government, PPA that I realised that some schools in the rural parts of Nigeria that many people don’t even know to exist won’t have teachers without NYSC. That one year that we used to impact the lives of our students can make or mar them, and the leaders know that. Though the pay is not commensurate, with out NYSC, a large number of children in these rural communities will never experience formal education or civilisation.” In a statement by the Head of Press and Publications, NYSC, Mrs. Adenike Adeyemi, “NYSC has recorded remarkable achievements in engendering national integration and unity. Over time, NYSC has become the pace-setter in expanding the horizon of Nigerian youths, providing the platform for them to interact with their contemporaries from different parts of the country. This has orchestrated long-lasting bonds of friendship and built bridges across cultural divides.” The statement also shares that “many Corps Members have settled in the States they were deployed to serve, having pulled down the barriers of ethnic suspicions and unfounded stereotypes resulting from first-hand experience of other cultures. In addition to driving national integration, NYSC members supplement manpower deficiency in our academic institutions, health facilities, MDAs and contribute to infrastructural growth in the country through construction and rehabilitation of roads, bridges, etc, both in the urban and rural areas, such that every Local Government Area in the country can boast of the presence of NYSC.” The statement also noted that the introduction of the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship programme into the service year remains of impact as an antidote to the widespread youth unemployment problem in the country. According to the statement, the NYSC skill acquisition programme is designed to give Corps members the opportunity to learn vocational skills of their choice right from the Orientation Camp and through the service year, to prepare them for self-employment at the end of their assignment. Presently, Corps members are exposed to vocational training at the Orientation Camp in agro-allied, automobile, construction, cosmetology, culture and tourism, education, environment, film, and photography, food processing/ preservation, horticulture, and landscaping, information and communication technology and power and energy. “Post Camp training is facilitated by skill-trainers collaborating with the Scheme at the places of primary assignment of corps members. In addition to this, through public-private partnership, NYSC has completed the building and equipping of a 1,000 capacity integrated skills acquisition training center in Gombe State and another in Ekiti State. The centers, are to be replicated in each of the six geopolitical zones to enhance the training. “The Scheme, through the same public-private-partnership strategy, secured interest free credit facilities for Corps members from financial institutions including Bank of Industry, Central Bank of Nigeria, Heritage Bank and Credit Direct to actualize their business plans. About 15,000 Corps entrepreneurs among the Corps members trained in the last three years under the SAED programme are known to have established and are sustaining different types of Small and Medium Enterprises. “Apart from the introduction of the SAED programme, the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) is among the new innovations of the Scheme to enhance healthcare delivery and its relevance in national development. The intervention programme was launched in 2014 and serves as a platform through which the Scheme contributes towards addressing the health challenges of rural dwellers who experience difficulty accessing health facilities across the country. Under the programme, the Scheme carries out an annual nationwide week-long medical outreach. From the inception of the programme to date, over 500,000 rural dwellers have been treated by the NYSC medical teams. Through this intervention, the Scheme, in conjunction with Grace Projects International, donated over 300 wheelchairs to the less privileged/ physically challenged members of the public across the country. Apart from the centrally coordinated outreaches conducted simultaneously nationwide, each NYSC State formation also mobilise the Corps Medical Teams to conduct periodic outreaches to various communities.” On agriculture, the statement outlines how the scheme, which ventured into farming in 1985, has started reinvigorating and upgrading its agricultural projects with the establishment of Integrated Farm Settlements in each of the six geopolitical zones of the country. “Four of them located in FCT, Bauchi, Kebbi and Oyo States are already operational, equipped with modern farm implements and Corps lodges. A number of Corps members who served in these farms have taken up farming as a profession due to the practical experience they gained and are now contributing to the government’s objective of actualising self-sufficiency in food production,” the statement says. Politically, the Scheme partners with INEC, the nation’s electoral umpire, in conducting elections in the country. The service corps has a subsisting MOU with the INEC for the participation of Corps Members as ad hoc staff of the electoral body in the conduct of elections. The MOU, which is reviewed from time to time gives prominence to the safety of Corps Members and outlines the conditions to be met by the government, INEC, security agencies and other stakeholders before Corps Members are drafted to participate in any election. “It is on record that the participation of Corps Members has improved the credibility of the electoral process.” The statement concludes with the fact that “NYSC in its 46 years of operation has not only made tremendous accomplishments in its core mandate of promoting national unity and integration, it has also shrewdly managed its challenges including but not limited to paucity of funds, overt and covert threats to her existence, some which have been turned into gains and remarkable achievements. “The coming on board recently of Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim as the new Director-General of the Scheme is no doubt a positive vista in the fortunes of the Service Corps. He is an accomplished scholar and consummate administrator. From the policy thrust of his administration, impressive profile, and past record of achievements, there is no denying the fact that the NYSC is indeed in for a tremendous transformation and greater achievements.” For and ex-corps member who wished to simply be identified as Chike, NYSC is a waste. In his words, “There is nothing national about NYSC, it is a waste. It is a waste of the lives of the young corps members, and it is a waste of our resources. Let’s stop lying to ourselves, the government takes fresh graduates and ships them off to remote places to slave in schools or be used as cheap labour during elections. How can we justify that? Do you know how much resources go into that?” In Chike’s opinion, the scheme should be scrapped. “Let them scrap it and graduates should stay in their states and find legitimate work instead of postponing the inevitable because of N19,800. Imagine them saying they cannot pay the N30,000 minimum wage to corps members yet because they haven’t gotten such directive from the federal government. Can N19,800 feed their children for a month?” With all that has been said and done, the NYSC discussion is far from over, and no doubt, there is the good and the bad. But what is yet to be determined is whether the bad outweighs the good.