LAGOS – The last may not have been heard about Wednesday’s judgment of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT), which dismissed the suit filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate in the 2019 presidential election, Atiku Abubakar. The five-man panel led by Justice Muhammed Garba, which took the grounds of the petition one after the other, dismissed the petition filed by the PDP and Atiku for failing to substantiate their petitions beyond reasonable doubt. Ruling on the petition filed to challenge the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Tribunal described the issues contained in the petitions as mere allegations and lacking in probative value. On the allegation that Buhari lied on oath when he filled in his Form C 001 that he possesses the West African School Certificate, Garba resolved the issue against the petitioners on the ground that a school certificate is not a requirement for contesting the position of president. The tribunal further stated that Buhari’s failure to tender his certificates while submitting compulsory documents to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) did not translate to not possessing the certificate or not being educated up to secondary school level. “There is no doubt that the second respondent is not only qualified to contest the election, he is eminently qualified to contest,” said Garba. He held that even the exhibits tendered by Atiku and the PDP proved further Buhari’s qualification. The tribunal also struck out the petition that the February 23 presidential election results were electronically transmitted. The panel held that evidence put forward by the petitioners were unreliable and inadmissible because such were hearsay. It stated that the petitioners’ position that the results announced by the INEC differed from the original results was based on information from a third party, therefore lacking in probate value. “The method of collation and transmission of results according to the Electoral Act is manual at every level. There is no provision in the exhibit that results were transmitted electronically in the 2019 election. “The petitioners have failed to establish the claim of electronic transmission of results at all levels of the election. Hence, the petitioners failed to prove this aspect of this case.” Rejecting the judgment and vowing to seek redress at the Supreme Court, the PDP described the judgment as “provocative, barefaced subversion of justice, and a direct assault on the integrity of our nation’s justice system.” The party, however, encouraged Nigerians to remain calm and not lose hope or surrender to despondency or self-help “as our lawyers are upbeat in obtaining justice at the Supreme Court.” The party, in a statement by Kola Ologbondiyan, its national publicity secretary, said it was particularly “shocked that the tribunal failed to point to justice despite the flawless evidence laid before it, showing that President Buhari was not only unqualified to contest the election but also did not score the majority of valid votes at the polls.” “It was bewildering that a court of law could validate a clear case of perjury and declaration of false information in a sworn affidavit, as firmly established against President Muhammadu Buhari, even in the face of incontrovertible evidence.” Also, speaking shortly after the judgment, a member of Atiku’s legal team, Chief Mike Ozekhome vowed that his clients would appeal the judgment. He said: “That we are appealing to the Supreme Court is as sure and certain as death. The only most certain thing in our lives is death, and our appealing this decision is as certain as death. “We shall challenge many things in the judgment. We will challenge the misapplication of the Electoral Act. We will look at misevaluation and even non-evaluation of critical evidence, which would have swung the case in favour of the petitioners. So, it is not yet Ohuru for the respondents. We would rather say that this is the beginning of the struggle to liberate Nigerians.” However, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) hailed the judgment, saying it validates the decision of most Nigerians to do away with the past as expressed in their overwhelming votes in the 2019 elections. In a statement by its national publicity secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party said: “From the outset, our party was not perturbed over the PDP and Atiku’s petition, which will go down in Nigeria’s history as the most frivolous in the history of election petition. In fact, our position has now been justified that the PDP and Atiku’s petition was a complete waste of time. In their puerile efforts, they insisted on taking the country on a circus and wild goose chase.” It said further: “Going forward, APC’s victory at the presidential polls and the election tribunal represents our collective desire as a people to remain focused on the progressive growth and development of our country’s economy, fight against corruption, and provision of security. “Consequently, we have taken a bold step by rescuing our nation from the satanic era of the PDP, when our collective interests were being corruptly traded among a few pillagers.” While Atiku is yet to make any official statement on the judgment, President Buhari Buhari on his part, described the ruling as victory for Nigerians who trooped out to overwhelmingly elect him for a second term in office. In a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, shortly after the ruling, the President said “Good conscience fears no evil report. I was unperturbed all along, because I knew Nigerians freely gave us the mandate. We are now vindicatedBuhari dedicated the victory to God and to Nigerians and commended the judiciary for “dispensing justice without fear or favour.” He also extended a hand of fellowship to those whom he said were aggrieved at the outcome of the election and had gone to court in accordance with their democratic rights. He noted further that with the pronouncement of the judiciary, “it is time for the country to move forward as one cohesive body, putting behind us all bickering and potential distractions over an election in which Nigerians spoke clearly and resoundingly.” The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) said it received with angst the judgment of the Presidential Election Tribunal which upheld President Buhari’s election. In a statement signed by its spokesman, Ikenga Ugochinyere, the CUPP said: “From the totality of the judgment, the Court of Appeal Presidential Election Petition Tribunal has lost the rare opportunity presented to it by the petition of the consensus opposition candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to put an end to electoral fraud, leadership incompetence and the imposition of an unfit leader on the people. “By their judgment today, majority of Nigerians who had believed, though erroneously, that the judiciary was indeed independent, have been brazenly awakened to the fact and correct belief that the presidency has successfully hijacked the judiciary and Nigerians can only expect judgments and not justice” the coalition said.