Akure – No fewer than 36 cows that strayed onto a sacred hill, Oke Owa, in Ijare, Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State, were struck dead by lightning strike Saturday night. The herders were said to have built tents on the sacred hill at the outskirts of the town with their cows grazing in the area. Sources revealed that the sacred hill is only visited by the traditional ruler of the town once a year to perform rituals during the yam festival celebration. One of the natives said he heard thunder strikes repeatedly when it was raining Saturday night. He explained that the loud sound of the thunder was deafening, saying it signified bad omen. According to the native, it was a hunter who announced that he saw dead cows on the hill when he was on an overnight hunting expedition. Following the hunter’s revelation, the monarch, the Olujare of Ijare, Oba Adegbamigbe Oluwagbenigun, sent a delegation of traditional chiefs to report the incident at the police station. He also instructed them to go to the hill, which had suddenly become a tourist’s attraction, to see what actually happened. On the hill, no fewer than 36 cows were lying dead on the ground and there were no cuts on their bodies. There were some yam tubers and pepper on the ground, obviously left behind by the herders. Speaking through the Sapetu of Ijare, Chief Wemimo Olaniran, who is the second in command, the Olujare of Ijare, told newsmen that the incident was an act of God. Although he said the herdsmen had been destroying their crops for a very long time, which had led to confrontation on many occasions, the natives and traditional chiefs were surprised to learn about five days ago that some Fulani herdsmen had gone to settle on the sacred hill. According to Chief Sapetu, “We were there this morning and we saw about 36 cows dead, apart from the one inside the bush. It has happened and there is nothing we can do. We regard it as the act of God which nobody can query. “There have been occasions like that but not as massive as we are having it now. Some individuals who desecrated the land in the past did witness thunderbolt attack. “The place where cows died is called ‘Owa’, normally visited once a year by the Olujare, where he will stay for a day. He will be there for seclusion to perform some traditional rites and no individual is allowed to go to that place. “No implication. It is a sign that the gods that are there don’t want whosoever to move to that place and settle down there. “It is not meant for any ordinary person. Even Kabiyesi himself goes there once a year and there is a way he will comport himself when he is there. “So, we don’t encourage people to mount that hill and nobody can touch the dead cows. Even the Fulani people that we met there said it was thunderbolt attack. “They even told us that if we saw anybody who had interest, he should go there and take away the cows and we said no, that it’s a taboo for anybody to torch anything there. “The dead cows will be there forever; it is part of the history in our land for people to see as testimony in future that such things happened. “No casualty. When it happened, I and some chiefs went to the police station to make official report. The police are aware of it, even the DPO came to the palace and we explained to him and he confirmed that it was thunderbolt attack, that it wasn’t human being handiwork.” Spokesman for the state Police Command, Femi Joseph, a Superintendent of Police, confirmed the incident when contacted. He said the incident had been reported at Ijare Police Station, describing it as a natural disaster that no one could prevent.