As contained in a joint press statement issued by the coalition, the effort “is part of our determination and plans to bring to book all companies in Nigeria, which are currently receiving phosphate stolen by the kingdom of Morocco from Western Sahara to produce fertilizer. “The legal move we are taking is just one of the steps to ensure that our proud country does not continue to be a receiver of stolen goods and profit from such unholy theft”. They further disclosed in the statement that the movement supports the development of Nigeria, but not with stolen resources, insisting that though they need fertilizer, but not that produced with the blood of their brothers and sisters in Western Sahara. They asserted that the principle was hinged on the Nigerian culture of non-exploitation of other people and defender of colonised people as they did in the struggle for the liberation of countries like Guinea Bissau, Mozambique, Angola, Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa. The coalition explained that “Nigerians are freedom-loving people, not accomplices  of leaders of a country like Morocco who against all known tenets of African brotherhood, religious obligations and social justice, would invade and occupy a member country of the African Union, dehumanise its people and plunder its resources which it sells to European Union (EU) countries and companies in Nigeria. Ostensibly reflecting the collective mindset of Nigerians, they reiterated in the statement that the history of Nigerians as a people coupled with their sense of morality and fairness, does not permit them to be silent in the face of tyranny, subjugation and exploitation of a people.  They buttressed the fact that “Our three main religions; the African Traditional Religion, Islam and Christianity do not permit that the head of the weak be crushed, or, stealing be accepted under any guise. So, we put all those dealing in stolen Western Sahara natural resources including their fishes on notice that they cannot continue to do business as usual. They assured that “After giving this notice to the Nigerian companies dealing in stolen Western Sahara resources, we will picket them across the country and bring them before our courts. This also includes super markets selling sardines and fishes from Morocco because 92 percent of these fishes are stolen from the Western Sahara coast. To this end, they explained that “It is in furtherance of this, we have invited these lawyers to meet exchanges ideas and plot our legal strategies and commence legal actions. The insisted that  the  Moroccan monarchy and leadership be called to order and brought to book for gross human rights violations in Western Sahara. Against the foregoing background, they demanded that the consent and permission of the Saharawi people through the SADR government be secured before the natural resources of the country is utilized or traded in any form, and urged The AU to give Morocco a timeline to vacate Western Sahara and if it fails, to expel and impose stiff sanctions, action would be taken against it as it was done during the days of Apartheid in South Africa. Also in its demand, the coalition said the UN should expand the mandate of MINURSO to include human rights violations so that its Mission can protect the Saharawi people, and that Morocco should vacate the parts of Western Sahara it is occupying and allows the Saharawi, like other Africans and people of the world to freely govern themselves and develop their country without any interference. In the same vein, they demanded all should be done to ensure that the Moroccan-Saharawi armed conflict is not re-ignited as renewed war can lead to an avoidable international conflagration.