LAGOS – Senator Banji Akintoye, a newly elected Yoruba leader, has said Yoruba nation must unite and collectively stand together in order to show would-be invaders of their land that “the threats to come and kill, maim and banish us from our land do not frighten us.” The don said if the invaders did not keep off the Yoruba homeland, they would definitively and decisively be crushed just as it happened in 1840. Professor Akinloye made this disclosure in a meeting with journalists on Tuesday in Ibadan, where he was announced the new Yoruba leader. He said: “As the newly elected leader, my responses are altogether a message of unity, strength and hope for our Yoruba nation. “I deeply appreciate the persons, the organizations and the leaders who met in Ibadan on August 22 and took the step of electing me. “I am convinced that all of them, individually and collectively, were motivated in this action by the desire to see the interests of our Yoruba nation further advanced, especially in the circumstances in which we Yoruba people find ourselves today in the context of Nigeria. “The dangers facing our nation are staggering. We are faced by nothing less than an invasion of our ancestral homeland, and by unrelenting harassments and killings of our people on our farms, villages and highways. “In the atmosphere of the ethnic cleansing that is going on in Nigeria, many of our people can no longer be sure of basic safety in their daily lives.” Akinloye added that all Yorubas working as a determined team through the instrumentality of a worldwide Yoruba organisation would give encouragement and assistance to tens of organisations that were standing up for the defence of Yoruba nation. “We shall commit ourselves to all efforts to move our Yoruba people forward and upwards again in the direction that would revive their vitality, their enterprising character, their creative energy, their love of elegance, and their love of sensitive, dutiful and decent leadership and governance. “We shall commit to fostering and promoting ideas and agendas that will open wide doors of opportunities to our youths and our women. We shall commit ourselves to serious efforts to forge the quality of Yoruba unity and morality that will impart serious strength, confidence, sense of national oneness, and sense of duty, to our people.”