Kaduna – The former Minister of Culture and Tourism Sen Bello Gada has lamented the lack of infrastructural development in Sokoto state. Gada who also contested the gubernatorial election alongside Waziri Aminu Tambuwal said the incumbent governor had not performed. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, “Tambuwal has not performed, Go to Sokoto and ask anybody of Aminu Waziri in terms of infrastructure, other social requirements and what have you”. “There is nothing to show. If he has done something, the people will tell you. I had wanted to contest for the governorship but, when I came out, I showed people the shortcomings of the government and that that was the reason I wanted to come out, showing them the things I would do to move the state forward”. The former minister who said this during an exclusive interview with Independent said; “We were complaining that the former Governor, Aliyu Magawata, had left a lot of debt and many more. Now, they are not together anymore. They have virtually not done anything now. I know, as an insider and as a former Minister, that there is the problem of money and it is a general problem. But still, from the little you are getting, you should be able to do something. Speaking on alleged plans by APC stakeholders and supporters to defect to PDP en masse due to the dissatisfaction with their party and government at the National level, Sen Gada debunked it, saying it is untrue. According to him, “That is not true. I do not think that is true. As far as I know, our people are solidly behind Mr. President. I also do not think anybody from Sokoto is ready to decamp from the APC. So, that report is not true”. On the general belief that APC in the state helped in actualizing the emergence of the incumbent governor to power, being a former APC member, he said, “Yes, he was then in APC, but It is simple! The governor has not performed. “He should be able to do something and the people will see that, yes, you are doing something. Look for urgent issues that deserve attention but virtually, he is not doing anything”, Sen Gada lamented.