President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, peeved by the negative perception of Africa by the outside world, yesterday donated $20m to ‘The Africa Centre’ in New York, United States of America towards reversing the trend. Africa Centre is a leading non-profit institution focused on challenging historical stereotype around the African continent and a hub for creating an intersection of African policy, business, and culture and recreating narratives about the continent’s economic and cultural significance today and into the future. Sharing in Dangote’s vision, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation also announced a new $5m grant at the Future Africa Forum. The Gates Foundation grant is directed to the centre’s capital campaign and for the development of its policy initiatives. Other foundations, corporations, and individuals that provided leadership support for the capital campaign, including the Mo Ibrahim Family, and the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, were also recognised at the event, which marked the conclusion of the second phase of construction. In recognition of his love and unusual passion for the continent, Dangote was honoured as the main hall of The Africa Centre, was named after him. Named ‘The Africa Centre at Aliko Dangote Hall,’ speakers at the event, which was part of The Future Africa Forum, lauded the efforts of Dangote, describing it as significant. The forum was this year’s signature policy and business dialogue event of The Africa Centre in partnership with the Aliko Dangote Foundation. Dangote, Africa’s leading entrepreneur had announced that the donation was towards the completion of the second phase of The Africa Centre’s physical space, which he described as transformative, thereby enabling the centre to accelerate its capital campaign, to further activate its public spaces and programming, and support ongoing operations. On why he made the landmark donation, Dangote said the donation through the Aliko Dangote Foundation was focused on supporting The Africa Centre’s work in transforming global understanding of the continent and promoting partnership and collaboration between Africa and the rest of the world. He said: “The Africa Centre is showcasing Africa in a contemporary, multifaceted manner as a center of innovation, growth, and limitless potential, which makes this project extremely important and worthy of support through my foundation.”