Following the demise of Mrs Mulikat Abeje Ademoye, 96, the grandmother of the First Lady of Ogun State, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, a delegation of political appointees and permanent secretaries in the State Thursday paid a condolence visit to the Ikoyi residence on the wife of the Governor.
Though bereaved, Mrs. Abiodun could not hold back his joy at the sight of the 15-member delegation led jointly by the Head of Service, Engr Olanrewaju Bisiriyi and Chief of Staff to the Governor, Alhaji Salisu Shuaib.
In an emotion-laden voice, she poured encomium on the team for their love for the State and loyalty to her spouse. She thanked the people for the support and cooperation given to her husband since the inception of the present administration in the State, saying the achievements recorded in less than four months of the administration would not have been possible without the support of the people, especially, public officers and civil servants.
“I want to appreciate you for the support and cooperation given to my husband. I know that one cannot go far alone without dependable people like you. Please keep on supporting him so that together, we can take Ogun State to the next level,” she said.
The first lady described her late Grandmother, Alhaja Mulikat Ademoye as a remarkable woman whose love and care would be greatly missed by his loved ones. Mrs. Abiodun said her grandmother was humility personified and a woman of prayer who worked hard to give her children and others around her the best in life.
She said though she was saddened that her maternal grandmother was no more, she was glad that Mama lived a good life that impacted positively on many and has gone home to rest with her Creator.
In a condolence message, the leader of the delegation, the Head of Service, Engr. Lanre Bisiriyu, said Mama was a humble, disciplined and hardworking woman who brought up her children and grandchildren in the way of Allah.
He noted that though many were not opportuned to meet Mama while alive, her humility could be seen in the live of her first grandchild, the first lady.
In his remark, the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Alhaji Afolabi Salisu, who commiserated with the first lady, said grandchildren, knowledge and establishing something that benefit others is the only way one could be remembered after death, adding that the deceased had planted through the first lady.
Prayers were said by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Mrs.Solimot Otun for the repose of the soul of the death.
Mrs. Abiodun is the first grandchild of late Alhaja Mulikat Abeje Ademoye, who died on Monday September 23, 2019. She has since been buried according to Muslim rites.