At 59, an individual should have overcome infantile teething problems, teen deliquencies and adolescent challenges normally associated with growth hormones; by two score and half, his life should be about counting accomplishments. By the same analogy, the life of a nation isn’t any different. As the country marks its 59th anniversary this week, taking stock of the lot of the average man on street has been a story of anguish, pain and with the lot of them bearing it all with stoic patience, writes NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE. Nothing better captures the disconnect between government and the average man on the street than last week’s excitement by Boss Mustapha, Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF) at the forth coming 59th independence anniversary of the country. Speaking through Gabriel Aduda, Permanent Secretary, Economy and Political Affairs Office, SGF Office, Mustapha said the presidency is looking forward to the country’s 59th Independence Anniversary and making plans towards it. According to him, the founding fathers of the country have made sacrifices not only to give the country its independence from the British Colonial masters in 1960, but also ensured the continued unity of the country. “For that, the country deserves an elaborate celebration come Tuesday, next week,” the SGF said. The government official made the pronouncements at the presidential villa. But not very far away from the presidential seat of power where the statement was made by Mustapha is Kuchingoro, a suburb which once played host to a leper community. Though the highly infectious patients have since been relocated from the place, a new crop of distressed citizens have taken up residence in the area. These are internally displaced persons (IDPs), who have made the area one of their many camps spread across the country, making Nigeria the third country in the world with highest number of IDPs. Instructively, Afghanistan and Syria, first and second country with the unenviable ranking achieved their status on account of war. So despite not being at war as a nation, the country harbours more citizen refugees within its borders more than other countries at war. This irony is not lost on Beatrice Williams, 16, Adama Ibaro, 18, both cousins, and Leah Thomas, 20, all girls, who have now taken permanent residence in the Kuchingoro, Abuja, IDP camp. According to them, the Nigerian nation, as far as they can remember, has always levied war on its citizens either through economic asphyxiation or its notorious inability to provide protection for its own citizens either from rampaging marauders and bandits or even officially sanctioned agencies who make eking out livelihood in Abuja a nightmare. The teenage girls, before coming to Abuja, were victims of herdsmen militia raids in Nasarawa and Benue States, respectively, but migrated to the nation’s capital in search of means of sustenance after being separated from their families. Until March 8, the girls had been making brisk business selling fairly used ladies underwears at the foot of a pedestrian bridge in Gwarimpa. Their collective take homes came to N4, 000 per day on the average from a stock of wares put at N25, 000. All that ended after a nocturnal raid by a task force team attached to the Abuja Environmental Protection Agency (AEPB) on March 8 and 9. For them, life as hawkers in fairly used clothes at the foot of the pedestrian bridge at the Gwarimpa Bus Stop, Abuja became unbearable. Their merchandizes were confiscated by the operatives. The raid was conducted in two different locations. The first was at a private property, along Dawaki Extension, way off the highway that the task force was meant to police. The second raid on 9 of the same month was also conducted nocturnally. This time, it was at the other side of the highway. The girls had their merchandize warehoused in two separate locations to avoid all of them being seized in one fell swoop like it eventually happened on the two-day raids. “We were chased from our villages and separated from our families. But what we face here in Abuja is not that different from what the Fulani herdsmen are doing to us back at home,” explained Williams, who appeared to have a better grasp of English than the other two and elected to speak for the girls. For them, there is no reason to look to the Independence Anniversary celebration with bright hope. Williams, Ibaro and Thomas are just three out of an estimated 2, 500 high risk hawkers routinely hounded by the Monitoring and Enforcement Department (MED) of the AEPB along the Gwarimpa-Kubwa axis. While such raids are not new and ostensibly backed by law to maintain the environmental status befitting of a nation’s capital, Sunday INDEPENDENT’s investigations uncovered disturbing patterns bordering on sheer intimidation, mindless extortion, braziness, routing right abuses of a vulnerable population segments. Normally, when such operations happen, the hawkers\traders’ only reprieve is to appear at the Area 3 operations office of AEPB where they are made to cough out N6, 000 each to bail out their merchandize. This is quite hefty considering the number of bundles of merchandizes that were carted away by MED operatives  for those two days. For those caught while on their routine raids on the highways but can’t afford the money, they are quickly dispatched to either Kuje or Suleja prisons, the newspaper learnt. “From the Gwarimpa axis alone, I can tell you that there are between 15 and 25 people in prisons whose only crimes is that they sold their wares in this prohibited areas,” explained Ikechukwu, who appears to be a union leader of a sort for the traders. Though this figures couldn’t be verified from the prisons as the Nigerian Prison Service at the time of compiling this report, our informant further explained that women, especially those in their teens and boys are the easiest victims of these routine raids. “Most of them also come from Kaduna, Nasarawa, Benue, and other places in the Middle Belt where there has been fighting,” Ikechukwu further explained. Last week Monday, Leilani Farha, UN Special Rapporteur, on adequate housing as a component of the right to an adequate standard of living, and on the right to non-discrimination, gave official stamp to the grave level of social and economic dislocation and inequality in the country. A Special Rapporteur is an individual working on behalf of various regional and international organizations who bear specific mandates to investigate, monitor and recommend solutions to specific human rights problems. Her verdict on Nigeria was quite damning. After a 10-day survey in Nigeria, specifically in Abuja, Lagos and Port Harcourt, Farha concluded that the level of suffering in Nigeria confirms varied statistics on its human development indexes. “I was shocked to see such inhumane and insufferable housing conditions in the 21st century, particularly in an oil producing country, showing relatively strong economic growth,” the social rapporteur noted in a summary of her findings. The UN investigator maintains that economic inequality has reached extreme levels in the country. Her claims are quite valid. In July 2019, Oxfam, a human development tracking international agency, reported that close to 70 percent of the country’s population lives below the poverty line. The Brookings Institute followed with estimates that 87 million people (43 percent of the population) are living in extreme poverty (1.25 USD/day or less) in Nigeria, with this figure growing by six people every minute. In 2014, WHO and UNICEF estimated that 69 percent of the urban population of Nigeria is living in ‘slums. Many of them lack even the most basic of services such as potable water, sanitation services, electricity, garbage collection, and paved roads. According to the 2013 Nigerian Demographic and Health Survey, 57 million Nigerians lack access to safe water, and over 130 million are without access to adequate sanitation. These however contrasts with the economic prosperity of the country where Nigeria is the 29th largest economy in the world, just behind Norway and well ahead of countries like Singapore and Malaysia. “It is considered one of the fastest growing economies in the world, albeit, reliant on the precarious oil market. Between 2004 and 2010 the number of millionaires in the country increased by 44%. It is anticipated that this number will continue to increase,” explained Farha. These contrasting figures are often bandied by government officials like Mustapha, the SGF, during national celebrations like Independence Day as achievement of nationhood. But explaining the inequality, the UN official said it is attributive to several factors, including corruption and mismanagement of public funds, and a failure to implement just tax policies, whereby low-income earners pay disproportionately more taxes than do high earning corporations. For instance, less than six percent of registered corporate taxpayers are active, and only between 15 and 40% of the Value Added Tax is collected. Anecdotal evidence suggests much money is being hidden in residential real estate that is left idle. In response to recommendations by the IMF to address gross inequality in the country, the government has launched the Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative and is reportedly engaged in a national social protection programme. “Under international human rights law, States are obliged to spend the maximum of available resources toward the progressive realization of economic, social and cultural rights including the right to housing. This includes, collecting and imposing taxes, and developing mechanisms to prevent corrupt money from landing in residential real estate or other assets domestically or internationally. It appears that Nigeria is not meeting this standard,” Farha said.