LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari has been advised to prevail on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) against devaluing the nation’s currency, the naira, to avoid complicating the current economic challenges facing Nigeria. The advice is coming on the heels of plans by the CBN to devalue the nation’s currency by the first quarter of 2020. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The apex bank has begun sensitisation of stakeholders, including members of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) ahead of the exercise. Renowned journalist and author, Michael Owhoko who gave this advice in an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari said devaluation will not boost export, reduce trade imbalance and possibly scale down the country’s debts as those pushing for devaluation will want the country to believe. He said the country’s imports are far more in excess of export, and so, Nigeria has no enough exports that can effectively compete in the global market, thus devaluation will lead to pains and misery for Nigerians. “Devaluation will surely cause the misery index to rise. Figures from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) do not inspire hope, as unemployment and inflation have continued to rise. “Unfortunately, unemployment and inflation are two toxic factors that are responsible for anger in the land, and in some cases, uncontrolled anger among citizens of the country have led to suicide, relocation to foreign lands (even to take up menial jobs), banditry, prostitution, and other social vices that have contributed to general insecurity”, he said. Owhoko added, “not many companies and organisations in Nigeria today are able to fulfill their wages and salaries obligations to their employees as at and when due. This is the trend in almost all the sectors of the economy, and it is a reflection of the state of the economy. Why making the problem complex through devaluation? “ He, however, advised the President to promote policies that will boost exports in the economy and strive to ensure his administration provides the greatest happiness of the greatness number of citizens, rather than hopelessness and frustration.