ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Tuesday, in Abuja, held a crucial close door session with heads of Federal Government’s Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) ahead of the 2020 budget, even as it gave President Muhammad Buhari a clear condition to have the budget passed by December 31. At the meeting tagged national budget reform roundtable, which was well attended by MDAs with the Senate in participation, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamilla, unequivocally disclosed that the 2020 budget would be possible by December 31, only if the appropriation bill is presented on or before September 30. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Represented by his Deputy, Ahmed Idris Wase, the Speaker said the National Assembly had over the years been working very hard to get the budget processes right, but the processes had continued to experience difficulties. He disclosed that in this first session of the 9th Assembly, the House had decided to ensure that the processes work for the good of the economy. The Speaker stressed that the executive must show strong commitment to having a good and workable budget, disclosing that the National Assembly over the years had expressed dissatisfaction with the outcome of the budget. “We are ready to receive your budget before 30th of September and conclude work before 31st of December,” the Speaker said. Gbajabiamilla disclosed that the 9th House of Representatives assumed office with a commitment to conduct holistic reforms of key sectors to better ensure that government lives up to its responsibilities to the Nigerian people. “We promised, and we will deliver on our commitments to remove regulatory and policy bottlenecks so that businesses can thrive, and our economy can attract new investment from within and outside our shores. “We are determined to address the problems of our significant infrastructure deficits by funding critical infrastructure projects across the country and by working with the private sector to devise and implement effective strategies to encourage private sector investment in public works projects.” He said that the National Assembly Reform Roundtable (NARRT) now exists amongst other reasons to serve as a vehicle for consensus building; driving engagement and collaboration so that the reforms proposed in the House of Representatives can achieve the support of the stakeholders without whom all efforts at passage into law, and subsequent implementation will fail, thus bringing their efforts to nought.