Mallam Garba Attahiru Madami is the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Kwara State. Madami, arguably one of the best Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) state overseers in the 2019 general elections, in this interview with NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, bares his mind on many challenges of election management in the state and why the country may need to wait longer for e-voting. It has been some months after the general elections held in Kwara State. If you were to do a postmortem of the event, what would you say are the pluses and minuses of the polls? Let me first say that Kwara State was unique and we thank God that we were able to organise a free, fair and credible elections which was accepted by the masses of Kwara. Not only was it peaceful, it was also credible. All the forecast for Kwara was that there was going to be crisis, violence or there was going to be war. I am happy as the election umpire that we gave a level playing field to all the political parties involved in the election. You can ask them, they will confirm this to you. At the end of the election, no political party went to the tribunal to contest the process of our election, or the result. What we have in court in Kwara is the case of the certificate of the governor, which has nothing to do with the election proper. This means that the election was accepted by the political parties and by most people. Another thing that gladdens me more was that I saw a lot of people in Kwara dancing and everybody coming to congratulate me that I had done what others could not do. I just felt that I was just doing my job; I am just being patriotic. Secondly, I made sure that I never compromised my integrity. Once you don’t compromise your integrity, your followers would do what you want. So, all I did was to show direction as leader in INEC Kwara. We thank God that at the end of the day, majority of the stakeholders in Kwara were satisfied with the conduct of the election. Another thing that gladdens me was that the following day, after the election, I went to the mosque and I was recognised by the people. They even decided to pray for me. That, I will never forget. The Imam took 10 minutes and asked the congregation to pray for me, saying that I have being a man of my words. They never thought that in Kwara, there could be an election without manipulations. For me, that was my number one plus and reward. This I will never forget. I would say that election in Kwara was one of the best in the country. I am happy that I made my family, myself and INEC at the headquarters proud of me. Do you see this feat being replicated at the local government election in days ahead? Unfortunately, local government elections are organised by state’s electoral agency. The state agency is not under the control of the Independent National Election Commission (INEC). The state governor appoints members of the SIEC. But, shouldn’t there be a role by the national body, even in advisory capacity? No, we don’t have any role whatsoever. How they do their thing is left for them. However, I learnt that plans are in the pipeline that state electoral agencies will be scrapped and their duties given to national INEC. If they do that, I can then say that we can have a role. But for now, we can only observe. I want to even tell you that in some states, politicians are made head of the SIEC. How do you expect free elections to be held under that kind of an arrangement? So, moving forward, what would you say are some vital lessons to take away from the election? Let me start with the lessons learnt.  First, the men at the helm of affairs in INEC, be it at the national or state, must be neutral and be seen to be so. The moment there is a perception by any of the political parties that you are biased, you are finished. Two, the person at the helm must provide leadership with integrity. This is because integrity is what makes the job easy. Thirdly, the issue of logistics was one of our major challenges. It was like we underestimated the volumes of materials to be distributed. Again, look at the Nigerian environment; the roads, the airlines and so on. I am happy that at the end of it all, we were able to overcome the challenges. This was what led to the first postponement of the election. Again, this is because, in my opinion, we have too many political parties. 91 political parties are too many and unwieldy to arrange their logistics. This is because what you do for one party, you must do for all others. I think that the first thing we should do is that by law, we should have just have five political parties so that elections can be better conducted. The arguments against such proposal are that it restricts choices. Democracy is all about choices. If a group of people feel that their political choice can only be articulated under a specific umbrella, they should have a right to have it registered and allowed to contest for power. Don’t you think these perhaps reinforce the argument for electronic voting? That electronic voting process is not a one day matter. It requires proper planning. It requires working with the communications companies. It requires so many other issues. But, I know that we will get there. The key issue, to me, is the issue of political parties. I believe that if we have five political parties in this country, it will accommodate all choices and all shades of interests. Even most of the political parties are not active. Only just a few are. Still on the electronic voting, it has to be gradual. There are a lot of risks to it like hacking and so on and so forth. It had to be studied very well. I was told that communication networks are not all over the country. So, how do you conduct voting in the remote places? Don’t also forget that literacy is still very low. All these things need to be put together. I believe that we should start thinking along that line, even allowing Diaspora Nigerians to vote. But first, let us streamline the number of political parties. Most importantly, too, most political parties do not have good primary elections. It is a big challenge for us at INEC. If you look at the number of cases in court on just the primary elections, it is just too many. Over 700 cases, all pre-election proper, all because of poorly conducted election primaries. Did you have that problem in Kwara? No. The only problem we had was the issue of factions in APC, which was also resolved before the elections. There was one faction of the APC recognised by Oshiomhole (Adams) and the other one. I resolved that even before the elections started. The constitution is clear on that matter. We only recognise the chairman and the secretary of the political party. We told the other faction to go and resolve their matter. They went to court. There was a judgment on the matter by the trial court, which was later appealed and the party won. So, by and large, we never had problems in Kwara. The only trouble we had was during campaigns; fighting between the political parties, shootings and so on. So, I had to call the parties and issued a stern warning that if any life was lost, I would hold them responsible. I told them that I was ready to give them all a level playing field, assuring them too that no amount of money can buy my integrity. Were there attempts to induce you? Of course, there were several attempts. I gave interviews where I stated that I was tempted several times. I can never put down my integrity for money. Today, I work anywhere on the streets of Kwara and people hail me. Is that not enough? If I go anywhere in the country now, people look at me twice as soon as I am introduced as the REC, Kwara. There used to be this practice during elections in Kwara State where a dominant political block would post huge numbers of votes from remote areas in the state. How come that did not occur during the last elections? That was easy. In the past, there was no card reader. So, they could manipulate figures. The card reader checked all those malpractices. If you are going to vote, the card reader will identify you and show that the card is your own. That is why we have been able to check over voting. If the registered number of voters is 60 and you now come up with 70 after voting, then you know something is missing. It is because the politicians know that they cannot manipulate the card reader, that is why they are now going into vote buying. They know they cannot manipulate the INEC system any longer. That is another menace we have been trying to check too. It is one of the reasons we have this policy on voters taking phones to voting centres. What we do is tell them to drop their phones as soon as they get into polling booths and pick it up after voting. This is because if we allow them take it in, they snap the ballot paper with their thumb print and take it out to collect money. There is this belief that INEC, especially at the state level, go to sleep after elections. They don’t do post election analysis and chart new course of action for the next election… (Cuts in…) That is not true. I just came back from Lagos last week where we did a post election analysis. I mean all the REC. Everybody did their presentations on challenges and how they conducted the election, whether rightly or wrongly. There was also a post election analysis for our EOs, all of them from all over the country. For Kwara, I have fixed November this year and we will use the biggest hall in the state capital to do a post election analysis. We will do presentations and put them all in package. Even if I am not going to conduct the next election in the state, the person who takes over from me will have something to work on. I cannot say we are perfect. But, we will take to the corrections and move forward.