Abuja – The Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday approved the 2020 budget of N10.07 trillion and the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP). Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents, where she disclosed that the Federal Government will begin consultations on the Value Added Tax (VAT) with a view to increasing it from the current 5% to 7.2%. The government, she said, has started working on the amendment of the VAT Act to enable the new VAT take effect from the year 2020, while consultations will commence as soon as possible. “We reported to council and it has agreed that we start the process towards the increase of the VAT rate. We are proposing and council has agreed to increase the VAT rate from 5 percent to 7.2 percent. “This is important because the Federal Government only retains 15 percent of the VAT, 85 percent is actually for the states and local governments and the states need additional revenue to be able to meet the obligations of the minimum wage. “This process involves extensive consultations that needs to be made across the country at various levels and also it will involve the review of the VAT Act. So, it is not going to be implemented immediately until the Act is reviewed.” She explained, “So accordingly, following these assumptions the total revenue estimate in the sum of N7.5 trillion for the year 2020 and N2.09 trillion that will be accruing to the federation account and the VAT, respectively. “There will of course be the distribution to the three tiers of government based on the statutorily revenue sharing formula as defined in the constitution and to this effect, it means the Federal Government will be receiving proposed aggregate of N4.26 trillion from the federation account and the VAT pool, while the states and the local governments are expected to receive N3.04 trillion and N2.27 trillion, respectively. “The expenditure for the year 2020 is in the total sum of N10.07 trillion. This is three percent less than the approved expenditure in the 2019 budget that has been passed into law. The total expenditure includes statutory transfers, non-debt recurrent expenditure such as salaries and pensions and also the social intervention programme. “The 2020 budget has a debt service estimated at N2.45 trillion and a sinking fund to retire maturing obligations issued to local contractors and other creditors in the sum of N296 billion. So there is a total sum of N3.43 trillion that is provided for personnel and pension cost inclusive of N218 billion for the top 19 government owned enterprises in the country. This represents an increase of N453 billion over the 2019 approved budgetary expenditure. This also implies a 40 percent of this recurrent expenditure to the projected revenue.” According to the Finance, Budget and National Planning Minister, the budget deficit is projected at N2.15 trillion in the year 2020 and it is lower than what was approved in the 2019 budget which was N2.47 trillion. “Let me state that these projections include draw downs on project tied loans and this represent 1.51 percent of estimated gross domestic product (GDP). This is well below what is allowed by the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2007 which is still put at three percent. “I want to add that council approved our presentation and so the next phase for us is to consult with the National Assembly and then the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to the National Assembly for their own view and subsequent approval,” she stated. Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who gave an overview of his presentation at FEC, said the council approved the revised estimated total cost for the rehabilitation of Itakpe/Ajaokuta rail line. Amaechi explained that the contract was awarded at $122 million but his ministry requested for a total of $56 million additional works which were broken down into $38.8 million additional works and 17.2 million variation cost, bringing the contract of Itakpe to Warri to a total of $178.7 million.