ABUJA – The crisis rocking the conduct of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship election in Kogi State on Friday took another dimension, as one of the aggrieved aspirants, Senator Dino Melaye, who was announced on Thursday as the party Director-General of the state governorship Campaign Council, rejected the position. This is coming barely two months and few days to the Kogi State governorship election scheduled for November 16. Melaye, in a tweet on his Twitter page, @dino_ melaye said: “Let me state categorically that I have turned down the position of Director-General of the PDP Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council. I wish PDP all the best. When truth is a casualty there is chaos. Senator Dino Melaye.” It was, however, learnt that Melaye, who had traveled out of the country on Thursday, was not only uncomfortable with the manner the primary election was conducted, but it was also gathered that he was not consulted. Meanwhile, 10 of the Kogi State governorship aspirants have declared support for the governorship candidate, Musa Wada. The aspirants, led by the former Kogi State governor, Captain Idris Wada, declared their support after a meeting held at the PDP national secretariat, Abuja. Recall that Wada was declared winner of the PDP primary, contested by 13 aspirants and supervised by Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu Fintiri. The 10 aspirants, have, however, said that they resolved to work with Wada to ensure the party’s victory at the governorship election scheduled to hold in November 16, 2019. The aspirants, at a joint press conference presided over by Mohammed Adah Shaibu Tettes at the party national secretariat, Abuja, said that there was urgent need for intra-party cohesion and unity of purpose at this critical moment. The aspirants, at the conference, which had the presence of the party’s national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said, “the urgent need for intra-party cohesion and unity of purpose at this critical moment is recognized. It is for this reason that the candidacy of Musa Wada, is considered worthy of undivided support as the task to rebuild Kogi starts in earnest.” The aspirants, who were at the conference are: Capt. ldris Wada, Emmanuel Omebije, Air Vice Marshal Salifu Atawodi (rtd), Princess Grace Iyeh Adejoh, Dr. Joseph Ameh Erico and Alhaji Kabiru Haruna. Others are: Adebayo Adobayin Averehi, Aminu Abubakar Sulaiman, Victor Alewo Adoji and Mohammed Adah Shaibu Tettes. However, Atawodi and Adoji who were not physically present at the press conference were said to have given their consent