Seriake Dickson, Bayelsa State governor, has congratulated Senator Douye Diri, the newly elected gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Senator Diri defeated 20 gubernatorial aspirants of the PDP to become the flag bearer of the party in the November 26, 2019 gubernatorial election in a keenly contested election in Yenagoa on Tuesday. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Governor Dickson said in a statement by His Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, that Diri demonstrated character, capability, courage and indeed the thirst for public service over the years. He said that Diri worked closely with him as his Principal Executive Secretary for years before leaving for the National Assembly. He said that his closeness to Diri afforded him the opportunity to assess and discover him as a man of proven character, high intelligence and competence deserving of the high Office of the Governor òf Bayelsa State. Dickson said that Diri, who later became a member of the House of Representatives and the Senate, demonstrated over the years that he was a genuine believer of the ideals of restoration and the common good. He commended the other aspirants for their show of sportsmanship and exemplary display of maturity in the electoral process that produced Diri as the flag bearer of the PDP. The governor urged them to work for the sustenance of the Peoples Democratic Party’s dominance of the politics of Bayelsa by working with Diri to ensure his victory in the November 16, 2019 gubernatorial election. He commended the delegates for keeping faith with Restoration Vision, which he said showed clearly that Bayelsa would always be a PDP-controlled state. Dickson who called on the good people of Bayelsa to be resolute in their support for the PDP thanked the security agencies for their display of professionalism and ensuring that the election was not disrupted by hired thugs as planned. He lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission for ensuring the conduct of a credible, free and fair election in accordance with the electoral laws of the land. He also thanked the electoral committee led by the Governor of Taraba State, Arc. Darius Ishaku, for making the PDP proud again by conducting a flawless gubernatorial primary for the Bayelsa chapter. Governor Dickson lauded the Prince Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee and the indeed the leadership of the party for providing good leadership and upholding the democratic ideals of the party.