LAGOS – The Federal Government has taken delivery of a Beechcraft Super King Air 350 (twin-turboprop B350) valued at $8.5m. The government said that the acquired aircraft would be used for calibration of navigational aids. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The government also said that the equipment would be commercialised and would provide more revenue for the industry and the country at large. Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, received the equipment over the weekend at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. Before the acquisition of the equipment, Nigerian personnel were trained in South Africa, Ethiopia and other countries around the world, but with the acquisition, such training would now be domesticated, while capital flight is reduced. As announced via his twitter handle @hadisirika, Sirika wrote: “Just received new calibration aircraft for the country. Make is King Air 350i. Cost $8.5m. The agony of contracting it to South Africa or Niger at about $500,000 every six months is over. Our airspace is safer.” Sirika expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari on the success of the procurement, stressing that the project commenced and ended during the regime of the president. The minister, while speaking to journalists after the delivery, said Nigeria would be saving a lot from the procurement the aircraft. He explained that the government used to pay as much as $500,000 every time calibration was being done on the country’s navigational aids. Expressing the commercial viability of the aircraft, a source, who is aware of the calibration activities of the country supervised by the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), said the market was huge in Africa. “More so, that this is the first calibration aircraft owned by government of a West African country. “There are other countries to calibrate for in Africa, with the marketing done properly. The aircraft cannot be lying fallow because of the commercial viability in the continent. This is the first calibration aircraft owned by a West African country. The market extends to the rest of Africa because of the need. The rest of Africa is a good market for the aircraft.” Instrument Landing System (ILS) is calibrated every six months because of the level of accuracy required, while the Very High Frequency (VHF) Omni-Directional Range (VOR) is calibrated once in a year and the radar system is once every three years.