ADO-EKITI – The election petition tribunal sitting in Ado Ekiti, the kiti State capital has nullified the election of Senator Dayo Adeyeye and declared Abiodun Olujimi the true winner of the February 23, 2018 Ekiti South senatorial election. While Adeyeye contested under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Olujimi was the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Delivering the judgment, the three -man tribunal, in a unanimous judgement read by Justice Danladi Adeck, nullified elections in some polling units and declare Olujimi the authentic winner of the polls. Eventually, Olujimi polled a total of 54,894 to emerge victorious over the Senate Committee Chairman on Media and Publicity, who polled 52,243. Justice Adeck added that apart from the nullification in some units, the outcome of the tribunal’s verdict was predicated on the recount of the ballots by the contending forces as granted by the court. Justice Adeck said for the petitioner to be so declared, she must prove those cases of criminal allegations of noncompliance with the provisions of the Electoral Acts and other corrupt practices raised in her petition beyond reasonable doubt, which he said she did. The tribunal said in Ikere, Gbonyin and Emure local government areas, the petitioner was able to prove cases of over voting and votes in those units were expunged from the ballots. On the voting patterns, the tribunal said: “it is not tenable to say that marked ballots were not properly deposited in the boxes because when this did not happen, then it will lead to over voting and will affect counting at every level of collation. “To avoid this pitfall, those elections must be expunged in order not to vitiate the electoral process. Therefore, after those votes were deducted, PDP was left with 54, 894 while the respondent polled 52, 243. “The petitioner having polled the highest number of lawful votes should be declared the winner of the election. “We hereby declare the petitioner the winner and he is hereby returned elected. “We hereby direct the INEC to withdraw the certificate of return from the respondent and issue same to the petitioner,” he said.