Chief Olusola Ebiseni, a lawyer and politician was a delegate to the 2014 national conference. In this interview, the three-time Commissioner in Ondo state and former governorship aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) speaks on the ongoing xenophobic attacks in South Africa and what the Federal Government must do to send a signal to other countries. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: attacks has become a yearly ritual in South Africa but it assumes a frightening dimension this year with Nigerians who are outraged by the situation carrying out retaliatory attacks here . What is your reaction to this incident? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The xenophobic attack has reached a crisis dimension and it is unfortunate that the South African government in my own view has not done anything to call the youths of South Africa to order. It is not just an issue of international relations, between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and South Africa . In the critical days of South African liberation, Nigeria stood up for them. Some of us then were in the university. I remembered that when we were in the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) , I was the president of All Nigerian Youth Solidarity For South Africa (ANUNSA). Maitama Sule then was the representative of Nigeria at the United Nations. Everybody stood in solidarity with South Africa. Our musicians such as the late Sunny Okosuns also sang that they want to know who own the lands. It was as if Nigerians were more concerned about the liberation of South Africa than South Africans itself. In the heydays of apartheid of Southern Africa, Nigeria was one of the frontline states when Zimbabwe was to come from Rhodesia, Namibia, South Africa and all of them It is unfortunate that this is how South Africans will be paying us back with despite the huge investment both in human and material investments we made during the apartheid era. Are you impressed with the response of the Federal Government so far? I think it has gotten to a stage where the South African government has to be called to order. This senseless attack is not good for our relationship as Africans. It is a shame that the rest of the world will be looking at us with surprise that this is happening just few years when the blacks in South Africa is liberated. I believe that the Nigerian government should take the strictest measures on this issue. What is at stake is no longer the question of diplomacy; it is the issue of the lives of Nigerians. The Nigerian government must show to the South African government and the rest of the world that the life of a single Nigerian means so much to us. In any case, our foreign relations, in most cases is a reflection of our internal politics. The way we handle Nigerians internally is the way foreigners will treat us. If thousands of Nigerians can be killed by Boko Haram, herdsmen and the response of the federal government leaves much to be desired, I think that is what is giving audacity to the rest of the world, especially some countries such as South Africa to be treating Nigerians with so much disdain and contempt. There was a time when Nigeria was said to be the giant of Africa. There was a time when Nigeria will constitute ECOMOG to liberate Sierra Leone and Liberia . Then, all these countries see Nigeria as a big brother and look up to it for direction. However, Nigeria of today is a country where anything goes and the lives of the citizens don’t matter to the Nigerian government. There was a time in 1976 when the late Murtala Mohammed will lead Africa to tell America and Europe that Africa has come of age and that we have the capacity to rule ourselves and determine our destiny. That was a period when Nigeria was respected all over the world. But today, the reverse is the case. The way the federal government, especially this Buhari administration handles the affairs of Nigerians internally is nothing to write home about. What lessons do you think the Federal Government can learn from this unfortunate incident ? First, the federal government should treat Nigerians better and with dignity. The way the government is treating us shabbily is what gives smaller countries around us the audacity to mess with our people anyhow as is being done in South Africa now. There was a time Nigerian military was the most sought after in many intervention programmes and peace-keeping missions of the United Nations all over the world but today we rely on Chad, Mali and other smaller African countries. I think it was President Idriss Deby of Chad that recently said Nigeria seriously needed him to help curtail insurgency. These are the same Nigerian soldiers that when Shehu Shagari was President, this same Buhari as the GOC of Third Division Command of the Nigerian Army moved during the Maitatsine riot and almost went into Chadian territory before he was called back. The same Nigeria today is now a country where we are now relying on Cameroun, Niger, and Chad to help defend our territorial sovereignty. This is the time for Buhari’s government to say to the South African government that ‘enough is enough!’. That is how a responsible government who values the lives of its citizens behaves. Take for example, what happened recently between the United States and Nigeria. When Nigeria increased the cost of visa for American citizens, look at the swift, retaliatory, concomitant response from the American government few days after and Nigeria has no choice than to reduce the fees. That is a big lesson for us on how to handle the affairs of our citizens. No country in the world can take the life of one American issue and it will not become a serious issue between the US government and the country involved. Nigeria should rise up as the giant of Africa on this issue of xenophobic attack . We can no longer fold our hands and allow the lives of Nigerians to be toyed with.