In the bid to stem the tide of illicit financial flows and tackle the problem of net resource transfers from players in private sector in Nigeria, the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) in partnership with OXFAM, had in a one-day policy dialogue Workshop charted the way forward for players in the private sector.
The workshop which was held in Lagos recently, posited that “For states to sustainably develop at the expected pace, they must begin to look internally to derive their revenue, especially from natural resources, tax and be able to put in place systems and mechanisms to curb illicit financial flows and illicit tax collectors with special focus on big companies.
Mr. Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, CISLAC’s Executive Director, in his opening speech said: “The objective of this dialogue is to support and influence the government to improve regulations in the private sector towards improving service delivery by government.”
The CISLAC’s boss noted that, “While Taxation is increasingly recognised in the global discourse on development financing as the most reliable and sustainable source to finance economic development and help poor countries overcome the poverty trap, the centrality of taxation to development is further underlined by the relationship between the feasibility of government policies on taxation and private sector governance”.
Meanwhile, the “Camouflaged Cash”, made available to participants at the Workshop, Security votes are impervious corruption-prone security funding mechanisms widely used by Nigerian officials, adding that popular and official narratives about security vote diverge sharply. Buttressing its observation on the somewhat heightening sleaze CISLAC in at the Workshop stated that Transparency International (TI) estimates that these secretive, unaccounted-for, cash expenditures add up to over $670 million (N241.2 billion) annually.
In the same vein, participants at the workshop in a communiqué resolved that the sum total of Nigeria’s various security votes dwarfs the international security assistance it receives, and is comparable to budgeted spending on national defence and security institutions. The stakeholders argued that rather than phasing out the use of corruption-prone security votes, the current administration, under the watchful eyes of President Muhammadu Buhari, has expanded their use in both scale and use.
As to the way forward, the stakholders recommended that legislation outlawing security votes at the federal, state and local levels should be passed, and that security spending should be confidentially monitored.
They also recommendation that government officials, security leaders and the general public should be educated and enlightened on the risks and drawbacks of using security votes.
The participants also urged the Federal Government and its international partners to work with state governments to establish Security Trust Funds (STFs) as a constructive first step toward phasing out security votes as well as serving as a transitional measure.
They, however, noted that if Nigeria embraces international best practices by banning the use of security votes, federal, state and local governments will need to offset their disappearance by improving communication and cooperation on security issues.