LAGOS – Timi Frank, political activist and former deputy national publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has said since Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has sued him, it was time for him to prove several allegations he made against former President Goodluck Jonathan and former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, among others. In a statement made available to journalists on Thursday, Frank told the vice president that he won’t be intimidated by going to court, saying the VP had record of intimidating the media, civil societies and social crusaders. Frank considered the declaration by Osinbajo that he would waive his immunity to pursue a libel case against him, asking, “Why didn’t he (Osinbajo) do the same when the issue of alleged misappropriation of N5.8 billion contract at NEMA came up? “Why didn’t he sue the wife of the president when she alleged that the Social Investment Programme (SIP) of this administration has failed? As one who oversees that, I would have expected him to sue the wife of the president or waive his immunity for the relevant graft agencies to investigate him. “More recently, it was alleged by the spokesperson of the foremost anti-corruption agency in Nigeria that the same N-SIP is riddled with corruption. I wonder why he’s not suing EFCC or the spokesperson.” While recalling some of the allegations Osinbajo made against some other public officials before, Frank said: “Osinbajo should be informed that his statements against the likes of former President Goodluck Jonathan and Senator Bukola Saraki will also be used as evidence against him once he enters the dock. “It is worthy to note that it is in the character of Professor Yemi Osinbajo to intimidate Nigerians, media houses and civil societies by court processes. “He rushed to court and filled a motion ex-parte in 2015 against AIT and NTA not to air a documentary of him. Another case in hand was when Professor Osinbajo, through his solicitors, asked Google to remove/ suspend a video published by Roots TV from YouTube as it was termed ‘defamatory publication’. Why does he not want Nigerians to scrutinize his person? Is he hiding anything? Has he forgotten he is holding a public office?”