LAGOS – Perhaps known or unknown to the League Management Company (LMC), the organisers of the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL), the recent promotion of Akwa Starlets and Warri Wolves, as well as the long-term campaign of Abia Warriors and Enyimba Football Club in the Nigerian top flight might have breached certain fundamental laws governing the game. Abia Warriors have been campaigning in the NPFL for a long time alongside Enyimba, unarguably the most successful football club in the land. It remained the second time a state government will own two clubs in the league in recent time after the Rivers State Government ran both defunct Dolphins FC and Sharks. While Enyimba and Abia Warriors have been campaigning in the same NPFL, the promotion of Akwa Starlets to the topflight also meant the Akwa Ibom State Government will be having two clubs in the topflight. Akwa Starlets will have to battle for attention from the state government with Akwa United. Similarly, after the merger and acquisition that brought about Delta Force last season, Warri Wolves booked their place in the Nigerian topflight in the just concluded Nigerian National League (NNL), meaning that moving forward into the 2019/2020 NPFL, Delta State Government will also have to contend with two clubs. Such issues as multiple clubs of the same ownership competing in the same competition, including the league had raised issues in the past. For instance, in the 2004 UEFA Champions League (UCL) and after Chelsea were drawn in the same group with CSKA Moscow, UEFA threatened to throw one of them out after it was revealed that Sibneft, an oil company which Roman Abramovich, the Chelsea owner, has majority share had a three-year sponsorship deal with CSKA Moscow. UEFA constituted a committee to establish whether the Chelsea owner had deeper-than-the-surface link with the club or not. If the billionaire businessman had any stronger tie with the club, allowing both clubs to compete, talk-less of being in the same group would have ran afoul of UEFA’s integrity test on its competitions. The issue of having two clubs of same ownership competing in the same competition is contained in Article 5 of UEFA Integrity of Competition of the Champions League and the UEFA Europa League (UEL) Regulations. It says: “To ensure the integrity of the UEFA club competitions, the following criteria apply: no club participating in a UEFA club competition may, either directly or indirectly hold or deal in the securities or shares of any other club participating in a UEFA club competition; be a member of any other club participating in a UEFA club competition; be involved in any capacity whatsoever in the management, administration and/ or sporting performance of any other club participating in a UEFA club competition, or have any power whatsoever in the management, administration and/or sporting performance of any other club participating in a UEFA club competition.” The English Premier League (EPL) takes special interest in having two or more clubs of the same ownership featuring in the league. This position is predicated on the fact that there could be rooms for compromise when and if necessary because such clubs are taking sponsorship from the same source. That is why the EPL came up with what it called ‘Fit and Proper Test’. Under the fit and proper test rule, an owner of a football club or a director of a football club must adhere to the ‘fit and proper test’ and must sign a declaration that they comply with this test. The fit and proper test applies to all directors and individuals holding more than a 30% shareholding. Anyone who owns more than this shareholding in a FA Premier League football club would fall outside the remit of the fit and proper test and such club will certainly not be allowed to run in the same league as the former club he has majority interest and share. The essence of all these is to avoid, among others, match fixing that could possibly occur in the event that the two clubs hold deciding game in a round-robbing affair. Besides, the UEFA and EPL view this situation as capable of robbing clubs of total ownership and causing near or total collapse of rights and ownership, thus leading to lip services to one club at the expense of the other. Now, three states in Nigeria have had the onerous task of managing two clubs each in a highly starved domestic league like the NPFL. A player of one of the leading clubs in the South/South revealed to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT that it would be difficult, if not impossible, for these states to manage two clubs in the NPFL even when they have not been able to adequately cater for one. The midfielder, not even looking at breaching integrity rule, hinging his position on welfare, said: “It is not bad to run two clubs but what is going to be the fate of these clubs at the long run because even the ones they have, they have not been able to manage them. But are you going to deny these clubs their deserved promotions,” he asked rather rhetorically. This is understandable given that league players are poorly remunerated and they beg for attentions. It has been a recurring development in the country that players and officials of clubs in the league are left reeling in the gutters of wants and deprivation, leading to low morale in what ordinarily should serve as means of sustenance to players and officials. But others have feared that in the event that there would be deciding games, the state governments would influence the outcomes, especially if the decisive ties involve their two clubs. This is where the integrity, as heavily canvassed by various governing bodies, comes into play. However, some have posited that it has been anything-goes in the management of club football in the country is because of non-existent club licensing in the country as heavily canvassed by the world football governing body. Club licensing would have regulated so many anomalies in the domestic league. It is proven fact that virtually all the clubs in the league are not licensed in obedience to FIFA’s regulations For the records, through the Club Licensing Programme, led by the Professional Football Department, FIFA supports confederations and member associations to implement and enhance club licensing practices at regional and national level with the objective of professionalising club football around the world and, ultimately, growing the game. The Global Club Football 2018 Report provides an update on the implementation of club licensing systems at confederation and national level across the six confederations. Overall, 145 (78%) out of the 187 FIFA member-associations included in this specific analysis reported the existence of a national club licensing system in their country, even though the level of implementation may significantly vary from country to country. This is particularly true with regard to aspects such as the number of domestic competitions that are subject to club licensing regulations, and the categories of clubs that are under the supervision of the licensor. In FIFA table highlighting club licensing for CAF, Nigeria remained the only country without any history of club licensing with countries like Somalia, Sudan, Swazilan, Tanzania, Uganda, Niger, Rwanda, Libya, as well as other far lesser Federations with high percentage of member-Association per confederation that have implemented a national club licensing system of the world football governing body. In a far less football developed country like Djibouti, the country have about 25 percent implementation for women football while Nigeria are still being found wanting in the men football club licensing, a sad development that has accounted to the reason why all manners of activities could be going on, according to some commentators. But according to FIFA’s revelation, about 26 percent of federations in Africa have rules for multiple ownership of clubs, though with huge emphasis on limiting stakes to a giving extent. But even at that, Nigeria, in the table obtained by SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, was not captured supposedly because of the very little or non-existent club licensing policy. So the absence of club licensing could mean failing the integrity test because and unless reported, match fixing involving the clubs of the same ownership could go unnoticed and cause disaffection among the clubs, which is why Federation like FA and UEFA are very serious about it. The Nigerian political space is bedeviled with huge debt profile by various state governments with unpaid salaries of workers running into hundreds of millions of naira and spanning more than one year, thus the least on the minds of state governments will be adequate remuneration for players and officials. In Abia State with Enyimba and Abia Warriors, for example, SATURDAY INDEPENDENT gathered that the state government was yet to pay state workers their salaries going more than one year. This comes with it still managing football clubs that comes with huge capital demands and sustained funding, which have been lacking in these states. Going forward, it is imperative that the LMC mandate clubs to make the remuneration of players and officials priority. Also, adequate mechanism should be put in place to check suspected irregularities that could occur from these multiple ownerships of clubs.