ABUJA – National Agricultural Seeds Council (NASC), yesterday declared that the Nigerian farmers have remained among the poorest in the world due to their use of fake and adulterated seeds which produce low yields. Mr. Charles Onwuka, a senior staff of NASC, while making a presentation entitled “Understanding the National Agricultural Seeds Council (NASC),”at the review and validation meeting of the NASC Strategic and Operational Plan for the Nigerian Seed Industry in Abuja, pointed out that while farmers in other climes use quality seeds that yield about 11 metric tonnes per hectare, their Nigerian counter-parts get about three metric tonnes per hectare due to the use of fake and adulterated seeds”. He warned seed companies and individuals who produce seeds for sale in the country without an approval and certification from the NASC, to desist from such illegal act forthwith or face the wrath of the law. He pointed out that following the recent signing into law of the NASC Act 2019, by President Muhammadu Buhari, stringent punitive measures have been put in place against fake seed merchants and unscrupulous elements engaged in selling adulterated seeds to Nigerian farmers. Dr. Philip Ojo, in his address, said the Council had set up Seed Inspectorate Department, saddled with the responsibility of clamping down on all fake seed producers, merchants and vendors across the country. Ojo assured that the Council would leverage on technology to take seed certification to the next level, adding that the Council had already established molecular seed testing laboratory. Commenting on the five year strategic plan being reviewed by stakeholders, Ojo said it was designed to provide strategic direction for NASC as well as strengthen the capacity of NASC to discharge its responsibilities in coordinating and regulating the Nigerian Seed industry. While underscoring the importance of the five year strategic plan, he said: “without a comprehensive policy direction, the Seed Council, as the apex regulatory body at the centre of Nigeria’s seed sector as the principal institution for the implementation of the National Seed Policy in Nigeria is poised to face serious challenges in achieving its mandate.”