Simon Lalong, Plateau State governor, is the current Northern Governors’ Forum Chairman. Lalong, now in his second term, in an interaction with newsmen to mark his 100 days in office, spoke on the delay in naming his new cabinet, his empowerment plans for the people and the security of the state, among other issues. ONOJA AUDU brings an excerpt: How have you been running the government without a cabinet within the 100 days in office? We are about concluding arrangement for the constitution of the cabinet. But people say there is a lot of delay. We had an arrangement which is the preparation for the next four years and in preparing for the next four years. We have to come up with a development plan. So, when people are asking why I’m delaying my second term cabinet, I tell them, it is not all about constituting a cabinet, but about focusing on what we intend to do in the next four years. When I came on board this time around for my second term in office, I have to engage BCG firm to develop a development plan for the people of Plateau State and they have just done that. They concluded that assignment about two weeks ago and I was waiting for them to tell me what will be the focus and direction of government this time around in terms of economic empowerment. So, when they concluded, they gave a direction and it is on the basis of this direction that I’m going to do my selection of commissioners and I will now decide what kind of ministry ,what kind of arrangement and combination and I have already started. I got the preliminary report of the consultant before I travel out of the country to Japan, and I’m waiting for the final report from them. But, having seen part of the report, I set the ball rolling by quickly appointing the Secretary to the Government, Prof. Danladi Atu and the Chief of staff, Noel Donjur, in fact, they are the engine room of government. I said few days ago that I have already finished my cabinet. I’m only waiting for the state Speaker of House of Assembly who travelled out of the country to return from his foreign trip so that that I submit my list of my commissioners to him. You know House of Assembly is a powerful place, you don’t submit to anybody. You submit to Mr Speaker and I tell you very soon, you will hear the announcement and the screening of the commissioner-nominees by the state House of Assembly. Once they are confirmed, we set the ball rolling on the economic plan of the state, so this is what delayed the appointment of new commissioners into my cabinet. You know as politician, some would like say they are supposed to be there or these ones are supposed to make the list of new commissioners. But I tell them, it is not all about these ones are supposed to be there or not, but the issue of what can we do for the people of Plateau state in the next four years that we are moving into the last four years of my administration on the Plateau. Do we expect round pegs in round holes when the list of your would-be commissioners is finally submitted to the House of Assembly? Yes, but, the law does not say I should submit portfolios to the names of the new commissioners that I’m about submitting to the Speaker of the state House of Assembly . Remember, I was a speaker before now in the same House of Assembly. Sometimes we look at it on the performance .When I was a speaker, I knew some instances where we screened commissioners and the governor only was at liberty to know where to fix them, But, during the screening, the governor could change his mind based on the direction with the members of the state House of Assembly. I was a life witness during my time as speaker. The governor came and said based on the performance and answers to questions asked the commissioner-nominees during screening, he felt some of the commissioners should man certain ministries. I know that some ministries like Ministry of Justice and Health, which demand professionals to head them, one cannot post any other professionals to man them. I prefer a situation where every commissioner-nominee appears before the House of Assembly before I give my assessment. I will watch the screening and determine where to fix each of the commissioners. Your administration policy pillar during the first term was five and now it has been reduced to three in your second term. What is the reason for the reduction? Initially, my administration was part of taking over from another administration and we created five pillar policies. Part of it was to look at what we inherited in 2015 and to look at some of the challenges that were there. So, the five pillar policy was to take a holistic approach on what we promised to do for the people of the state. By the time we got into the office, we saw a different thing entirely. After staying in office for four years before we were given another opportunity to return for the second term, we realised that for some of the challenges, we had taken care of them. We need to remain focused for the remaining of the second tenure . We may not to do everything, but should be able to do what we intend to do above 60-70% which will be either grade B or A. I don’t want to always say that I’m perfect, but I will strive to score B or A. Now, we have reduced the five pillar policy to three pillar policy. How do you intend to carry out your administration’s economic blueprint to change the narrative from being the civil service state to economic giant in the real sense of the word? We intend to organise economic summit after the development plan which is going to be the first of its kind in Plateau State. In terms of revenue, I have engaged as a consultant the woman who did a magic under former President Obasanjo administration. She was the head of the Federal Inland Revenue Service. We are trying to put facilities on ground in the state to improve our revenue base in the next four years. I am determined to take away Plateau State from civil service state to economic viable state and that is why we are saying once we must create enabling environment to enable the private sector people to invest in the economy of the state. There is no gainsaying that we continue to stay in one place and be saying we are from a civil service state and refuse to do anything to complement the civil service jobs we are doing in the state. I hate a situation You wait in the office after eating lunch till 4pm and close shop for the day doing nothing to earn extra income to supplement your monthly salary. We are thinking also out of the box and that is why we are emphasising on skill acquisition and lots of other empowerments. Our PLASMEDA is doing a lot of empowerments, engaging people telling them that there is still something you could do to earn additional income to take care of your family needs in these challenging times. I would not want to spend eight years in office as governor come back to government job. All my life, I have never work in civil service, but worked in the private sector. So, when I came on board as governor, I know that we must be preparing for something either for the raining day or bad day. You must prepare yourself for something rather than seating down saying they are not going to do this or that because they are civil servants. Well, I have done my best in terms of paying salaries to workers in my state when compared to what is happening in some other states in the country even though some people will sit down somewhere and be saying Lalong has not done his best for the people. Let me say here that a Lizard jumps from an Iroko tree and say if nobody praises him, he will praise himself because if it is not easy to jump from an Iroko tree, let somebody jump and fall. How quick do you think Plateau civil servants will jump at these new opportunities? Yes, let me tell you that the mindset of the people are fast changing towards the new reality of life and without their cooperation, we couldn’t have achieved what we have achieved so far on the Plateau. Even for the fact that people are cooperating with us to achieve peace in the state, it is something because if the people refused to work with us to ensure peace reigns in parts of the state. There is nothing we could have done otherwise. The people are asking me to do more, and I’m saying they should also do more. I’m doing my best and let them do more. How do you intend to change the narrative of cycle violence on the Plateau to a state of relative peace under the current dispensation your state? Yes, we have done a lot in terms of foreseeing some of these problems and addressing them and sustaining the peace that we now have on the Plateau. There is a relationship between poverty and crisis. When there is so much abject poverty in the land, you see a lot of insecurity. There is what we called stomach insecurity or poverty. We must get people working and doing something to earn a living in the state. There are lots of youths out there that are not working and doing nothing, who are wandering the streets .We have a special package, Plateau State is the only state that we have created Peace Building Agency in the state and we are at the same time working on industrialisation in the state so that businesses will spring up here. We are trying to create enabling environment for this to take place on the Plateau. Once there is peace, people will invest in the state. We should not drive people from the state and I’m working round the clock to ensure criminals are taken off the streets from wherever they are hiding. Right now, we have empowered our security outfits and as well our indigenous operation Rainbow which we are trying to enhance their capacity. We have employed about 250 youths in this regard. We have mobile security outfit in Shendam, Air Force station in Kerang community of Magu local government council of central zone of the state and Police Mobile outfit now at Gashish in Barkinladi local government council of Northern senatorial district of the state to provide security for the people of Plateau and by so doing what we have done is enough to l sustain peace on the Plateau. How do deal with the issue of merchant of crisis on the Plateau? Well, several times, the Police, the Army and other security outfits in the state have arrested many criminal suspects in parts of the state and have prosecuted them in courts and right now we have amended the penal code of the criminal justice system in the state, one of the best in the North at the moment. Any criminal arrested in the state now faces prosecution on the Plateau unlike before which we recorded cases of these criminals being taken to Abuja and the suspects develop wings. We must fish out criminals within us. Acts of criminality is on the rise in the state and we are all out to fish them out from their hide outs. The men of anti-kidnapping squad from the Police Headquarters in Abuja are already here picking up these bad elements from many parts of the state and we are seeing the results already. These criminals have no hiding place as those arrested are being prosecuted before the court of law. Very soon, I will enhance the capacity of the state Ministry of Justice and the state judiciary to be able to carry out their duty effectively. As Chairman of Northern Governors Forum, what is the body doing to bring acts of criminality in the North to the barest minimum so that the people of the zone can go to sleep with their two eyes closed? When I was elected as the Chairman of Northern Governors forum, I said another responsibility has been added to me with what I was trying to handle back home on the Plateau and it is my prayers that God will give me wisdom to carry out this task. From the inception when I was appointed as Chairman of Northern Governors forum, we set up a committee on security headed by the Katsina state Governor Aminu Masari and shortly after that, the Governor had a serious security challenge in his hands in Katsina state which he has been battling to curtail. Hopefully the report of the committee we set up will soon be submitted to the forum and thereafter we hope to set up Northern security and economic summit We have been having acts of banditry in Northern states, cases of kidnapping and reported cases of attacks and killings here and there by unknown gunmen. Towards addressing these security challenges, the North West states have organised security conference and bandits came out live and we had discussion with them. It is better to go into dialogue and succeed. We have extended it to North Central and the North East is being taken care by the Federal Government. We need dialogue to succeed, it is not always the case of sending security men to go after these bandits and at the end of it. The more you kill them, new ones will emerge and cause more harm to the society We need to deal also with this problem of Almajiri system in the North. We have set up a committee on how to address this challenge of Almajiri system in the North as in any society like this we can’t leave the Almajiris to be roaming the streets doing nothing and that is another source of insecurity not only in the North but in the country as a whole. The issue of Almajiri goes also with the issue of unemployment, appointments and engagements. Without engaging people to do something; you are wasting your time. We want to engage many of our youths to go off the streets of the North.