Innocent Oweh; Samuel Ogidan
Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari seized the forum of the 74th United Nations General Assembly to lament the financial woes the P&ID of UK almost plunged Nigeria into, insisting that he will get to the bottom of the alleged scam. Being the fifth speaker at the forum to address the gathering, he also took a swipe at the internet industry, accusing it of aiding and abetting racist and xenophobic doctrines which had the capacity of ripping nations apart.
Buhari also dealt on poverty, describing it as a phenomenon tearing nations apart unless some drastic approach is channelled towards addressing it.
He said, “The present Nigerian government is facing the challenges of corruption head-on.
“We are giving notice to international criminal groups by the vigorous prosecution of the P&ID scam attempting to cheat Nigeria of billions of dollars.”
On social media, he said, “I hold social media outlets responsible for fuelling major crimes such as mass killings, major tech companies must be alive to their responsibilities.
“They cannot be allowed to continue to facilitate the spread of religious, racist, xenophobic and false messages capable of inciting whole communities against each other, leading to loss of many lives. This could tear some countries apart.
“No threat is more potent than poverty and exclusion, they are the foul source from which common criminality, insurgency, cross-border crimes, human trafficking and its terrible consequences draw their inspiration.
“Poverty is one of the greatest challenges facing our world, its eradication is an indispensable requirement for achieving sustainable development”.
He highlighted his administration’s efforts to overcome the challenge.
On the 2019 presidential elections, he said, “Our people backed the politics of tolerance, inclusion and community over the politics of protest and division.”
The president also reaffirmed Nigeria’s position on certain issues which impinge on global peace, security, progress, democracy and development.
“Firstly, I wish to thank the General Assembly for the honour bestowed on the government and people of Nigeria by electing our national, His Excellency, Tijjani Muhammad-Bande to the presidency of the 74th session of this august body. This is indeed a great honour!
“Nigerians are truly grateful and shall endeavour to live up to the expectations and responsibilities thrust upon us”.
The Nigerian president also took out time to comment on the election of Ambassador Muhammad-Bande as UN President General, saying he is an experienced and seasoned diplomat and that he was confident that he will prove to the international community his suitability for this most demanding assignment.
“Let me also offer my sincere thanks to the outgoing President, Her Excellency Maria Fernanda Espinosa Garces for her skill, resourcefulness and endless reservoir of patience in piloting the 73rd General Assembly.
“In the same vein, may I commend the Secretary General, His Excellency Antonio Guterres for his tremendous energy, his genuine international outlook exhibited by his leadership of the United Nations.
“The theme of the current General Assembly is ‘Galvanising multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion’
“These are the prime areas calling for collective action which will benefit national and global interests”, Buhari said. Senate Summons AGF Malami Over $9.6bn Award
Meanwhile, the upper chamber of the National Assembly on Tuesday summoned Abubakar Malami, Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, over the controversial award of $9.6 billion against Nigeria by a United Kingdom court in favour of Process & Industrial Development Limited (P&ID).
It would be recalled that the Federal Government had been having a running battle with P&ID over supply of zero cost natural gas to the company through a pipeline to be constructed by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to P&ID processing facility.
Debating the development, which came under an urgent motion sponsored by Opeyemi Bamidele (Ekiti Central, APC), the Senate also invited officials of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and professional arbitrators, who were engaged on behalf of the Federal Government on the deal.
The Senate, in its resolution after Bamidele was allowed to present the motion, “invites the Honourable Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation to in the company of other relevant stakeholders, including officials of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and professional arbitrators engaged on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria in this regard to comprehensively brief the Senate committees on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Petroleum Resources (Upstream and Downstream), Gas Resources and Power on the details of the 2010 contract with P&ID as executed, reasons for the default as well as the handling of resultant negotiations, arbitration, court proceedings and steps being taken to resolve the matter in the overall best interest of the Nigerian economy and security of the nation’s assets at home and abroad.”
Leading debate on the motion, the lawmaker noted with concern that Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora have become apprehensive while several committees of the Senate have over the last few weeks received several petitions and other direct and circumstantial information on the ongoing legal tussle.
In the plenary presided over by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, Bamidele said that a commercial court in the United Kingdom has ruled that the Federal Government must pay P&ID the sum of $9.6 billion or have its assets to the tune of that amount forfeited.
Bamidele explained that in January 2010, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, acting on behalf of the Federal Government executed a gas supply processing agreement with P&ID whereby Nigeria was to supply zero cost natural gas to P&ID through a pipeline to be constructed by NNPC to P&ID processing facility.
“The Senate further notes that under the terms of the TSPA which had a tenor of 20 years, from the date of first supply of wet gas, P&ID had an obligation to process the wet gas and deliver the derivative to the Federal Government free of charge for power generation while taking any other residual liquid itself at no cost.
“The Senate further notes that based on the facts of the case, P&ID served a notice of arbitration on the Federal Government in 2012 on the ground that Nigeria repudiated its obligation under the terms of the TSPA by defaulting to make wet gas available to it,” he said.
The lawmaker expressed concern that the UK court decision converted the subsequent arbitrary award into a domestic judgment against Nigeria creating a situation where Nigeria’s asset around the world, particularly in the United Kingdom and the United States of America, risk being taken over by P&ID orbits agents.
He further expressed concern that the damages awarded to P&ID are manifestly excessive, exorbitant, punitive, and a big threat to the economic well-being and security of Nigeria.
Earlier, in his resumption speech, Lawan commended the Federal Government for the appropriate response to the $9.6 billion judgment debt.