ABUJA – A group under the aegis of Incorporated Trustees of Make Nigeria Better Initiative (MNBI) has instituted a legal action against the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, at the International Criminal Court, in The Hague.
The criminal complaint dated September 2, 2019, was filed on behalf of the group by Mr. Thomas Carroll of GAYLORD POPP, LLC.
Specifically, the group wants the ICC to order the arrest and prosecution of the IPOB leader.
In the criminal complaint, MNBI is asking the court to make an order for the ICC Prosecutor to open investigation of the accused on her own accord under Article 15 (1) of the Rome Statute.
In addition, the group wants an order for the ICC Prosecutor to compel Kanu, upon conviction under the Rome Statute to pay $1,000,000,000 (One Billion US Dollars) as punitive damages for allegedly causing death, injury and maiming of several Nigerians through his acts of terrorism.
More so, MNBI is requesting, “That the ICC Prosecutor also formally “submit to the Pre-Trial Chamber of the ICC a request for authorisation of an investigation” of the Accused under Article 15 (3) of the Rome Statute.
“That the ICC Prosecutor obtain International Arrest Warrant for the accused from the ICC in accordance with Articles 58 (1) (a), 58 (1) (b) (i), 58 (1) (b) (ii) and 58 (1) (b) (iii) and proceed to arrest the accused from wherever he is hiding so he can face trial.
“That the ICC Prosecutor compels the British Government to expeditiously begin the process of cancelling the citizenship of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, entering an Exclusion Decision and or Order barring him from all territories of the United Kingdom so he can return to Nigeria and face his treasonable felony trial pending before Honourable Justice (Mrs.) Binta Nyako sitting at the Federal High Court, Abuja.
MNBI said the IPOB had issued a threat to attack President Muhammadu Buhari, during his visit to Japan to attend the 7th Tokyo International Conference on African Development, holding in the City of Yokohama, Japan from August 28-30, 2019.
It said that apart from the physical attack carried out by the group against former Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, by IPOB in Nuremberg, Germany, acting on the orders of the accused, similar threats had also been issued against the five South East governors who are Governors David Umahi of Ebonyi, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia and Willie Obiano of Anambra State.