Lagos- Prince Tony Momoh, a former Minister of Information on Monday said there is no hope for the Igbos to produce the presidency in 2023 under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking in an exclusive interview with Daily Independent in Lagos on why the Igbos have not produced the President since 1999 and their chances in 2023, Momoh, one of the national leaders of the APC said the only way the Igbos can produce the President in 2023 is if the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the party they have been supporting since 1999 wins the presidential election. “The Igbos seem to have settled for two political parties since 1999. These two parties are PDP and APGA.  Like I said, PDP had been in power since 1999. I was the Director of Media for Alex Ekwueme campaign in 1998 and I was with him till 2003. Ekwueme, former Vice-President of Nigeria contested the primary and lost to the eventual winner, Olusegun Obasanjo, so the Igbos did not get the presidency in 1999”. Also, they didn’t get it in 2003 because it still went to the South-West as Obasanjo got reelected.  2007, it went to the North and late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua became President. When Yar’Adua passed on, Goodluck Jonathan, his deputy from the South-South became the President in May 2010 and was in office till May 2015 when power changed hands”. “Three political parties namely  ACN of Bola Tinubu, CPC of Buhari  and ANPP of Ogbonnaya Onu and some other leaders in the North came together and midwifed APC which was populated by the North and South- West.  Only Imo state in the South- East joined APC then”. “So, if you have APC in government, there is no way the South- East  could have the President without political re-engineering by voting for  APC massively or doing some other things to acquire the sympathy of Nigerians that formed the majority.   So, if PDP won the South- East by and large, how do you expect the Igbos  to access power without the PDP accessing power?” “So, it is very easy for the Igbos to acquire power and access Presidency in 2023 as people are saying if the party they support wins. If APC wins, there is no way they can access power because power comes through the votes.  There is no sentiment about it. Power is not donated, you fight, work for it and take it.  You access power through struggle. Nobody is going to say ‘come and take power’. “ In any case, the Igbos have never said they will secede if they don’t get presidency in 2023. We have fought a civil war and there is no Igbo man who was 25 years during the civil war that will say ‘let us fight a war again’ he said.