Ahmad Tijjani Abdul; Xavier Ndah
Kano / Lagos – A Kano Federal High Court, on Monday, told Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, Bashir Aminu Wali, and former Director-General, Goodluck Jonathan’s Campaign Organisation, Engr. Ahmed Mansur that they had case to answer concerning a six-count charge bordering on money laundering and violation of anti-graft laws preferred against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The court also ordered them to return their international passports that were earlier released to them on health grounds.
The anti-graft agencies told the court that the accused persons during the 2015 presidential elections received the sum of N950 million from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), alleging that the monies collected in cash batches violated the provisions of the law.
The prosecution further alleged that Senator Shekarau in company of the other accused persons, disbursed the monies collected through channels that allegedly contravened the provisions of Nigeria’s Money Laundering Act.
They were alleged to have received the money from a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke, for the purpose of influencing the outcome of the 2015 general election.
In the course of the trial, the prosecution called four witnesses and closed its case on May 8, 2019.
Shekarau, Wali, and Mansur on July 2, 2019, denied all the charges slammed against them, and prayed the court to admit their plea for a no-case submission.
The matter was then adjourned to September 23, 2019 for ruling on the no-case submission.
In his ruling, the presiding judge, Justice Lewis Amburus Allagoa, said the no-case submission made by the accused persons was not cogent enough to convince the court to grant their request for the dismissal of allegations against them.
Justice Allagoa said having heard the submissions made by the prosecution and counsel to the accused persons, the court was convinced that a prima facie case had been established against the trio.
He, therefore, ordered the accused persons to return their international travelling documents that were earlier released to them on health grounds to the jurisdiction of the court.
The case was subsequently adjourned to November 18-19 for the accused persons to commence their defence.