Dare Adesope, President of Odua Peoples Congress Reformed (OPC Reformed), in this interview with Titilope Joseph, spoke on the relationship between his group and the late Dr. Frederick Fasehun and Gani Adams’ factions. He also spoke on the state of insecurity in the country, unity among Yorubas, and other issues. Excerpts: What do you have to say on the current state of insecurity in the country. Our government caused and encourage what the country is going through now in terms of the state of insecurity. We all know how Boko Haram started and how our government handled it with levity before it escalates and their existence became what cannot be curbed and now that they are beyond control. The masses are suffering due to their negligence. What do you think can curb crime in our society? With the way our economy is being run, I think our system encourages crime. When a graduate leaves school without hope of getting job, and even those that are earning salaries cannot take care of their family. It’s only God that can be calm and cautious despite being oppressed by the people they voted for. What is your take on Fulani herdsmen activities? I have told our people on several occasions that we should stand to defend ourselves because the government cannot cover every area as regards security and that is why we are facing next level of insecurity. If anyone is not afraid to attack me, I will not be afraid to also defend myself come what may. In a time like this, we Yoruba have to unite to fight our common enemies irrespective of factions but it is obvious our Southwest governors except Oyo state governor Seyi Makinde takes this with levity because of party issue. Let me bring it to their notice that their stay in office is limited but they will be among their people forever and whatever they do now will linger on. What does OPC Reform stands for and is there disunity between the factions? I can boldly say there is nothing like disunity, it’s true that we have factions though, we sometimes disagree on some issues but when it’s time to rise up to defend Yoruba race, we shall all come together in unity to fight the battle. Tell us more about yourself and the group you represent? I am a principal member of OPC, I used to be the National General Secretary under late Dr.Frederick Fasehun but due to some issues that I wouldn’t want to talk about and coupled with the fact that OPC was already losing its acceptability among the Yoruba people and because of some bad attributes attached to them, OPC Reformed was formed. What do you mean by bad attributes? The leaders chose money above other things and their attitude then was not encouraging and this brought about OPC Reformed emergence which was so timely. If you can recall what happened during election in 2015, I was still serving under late Fasehun but I stood my ground as the national Secretary and went against all odds to fight for the interest of Yoruba people and majority of the members were on the same page with me despite the fact that our leaders then bowed for money. Can you tell us more of what transpired between you and late Dr. Fasehun? Those are the issues I have put behind me and you know Fasehun is late now and talking about it will bring back bad memories Memories like what? Dr. Fasehun did not plan his postmodern well at all. His exit from this world would have been a glorified one had it been he did the needful. He promised to transfer the mantle of leadership to me on OPC 20th anniversary because he saw me as his best successor but he changed his mind after the election because I refused to work for who he presented. What inspired you to pull out of OPC? If you are on honest track, success is sure. OPC reformed started with other members because I didn’t pull out alone. For the record, we started with twelve states with a large number of members. If we are not relevant, Alaafin would not have been present for my inauguration. What is your relationship with Alaafin of Oyo? Alaafin of Oyo Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III is a Royal father that I cherish so much, though kings are the custodians of culture, so anything OPC stands for is attached to them but Alaafin of Oyo is more than a father to me. I do go to him for advice and he is always ready to receive me. When I printed my inauguration invitation card and Alaafin’s name appeared on it, people said it to my hearing that Kabiesi (king) won’t come but their jaw fell when he arrived at the venue even earlier before the event, I will forever be grateful to Alaafin for presenting my staff of office to me and that was the first time Kabiesi will attend OPC function, to buttress the point for me, he also ask Chief Ifayemi Elebuibon to coordinate the oath for me and my executives, we all know what Chief Elebuibon stands for. Don’t you think factions issues can be a hindrance for OPC groups? You see, when somebody like me is talking on behalf of OPC, many members listen irrespective of factions because we have been together from the roots, I passed through all stages before I became the National General Secretary under Fasehun and I have a great and unique relationship with many of them even till now. I can boldly say I understand our members problem inside out because I started from ordinary member so I know what am talking about, not all leaders can say this because immediately they took leadership mantle they turn themselves to god that their members can’t even relate with them again. Why do you think people are afraid of OPC? Hypocrisy is the word, we have so many hypocrites among us especially in Yoruba land, what they condemn openly will be their romance mate in the night. Even in the western world they paint Africans black and not too good even if they want to give illustration of Satan they paint him in black form. Like I earlier said we reformed OPC because of some bad impression people had about the earliest groups. I can assure you that we have more of elites with us now and it is a total reformed group. People allowed themselves to be intimidated by Western world because they are yet to identify with their own root. You know one thing I like about Saudi Arabia is the spirit of equity. No matter who you are in your country when you go to Saudi for Hajj, you are all equal before Allah. Let us cherish our culture and use it accordingly. Our culture is our strength.