BENIN – An Auchi-based spare parts dealer, Raphael Onyekwe, has demanded justice over alleged illegal demolition of his shop, which had goods worth over N7.7million, by officials of the Etsako West Local Government of Edo state.
Onyekwe alleged that some officials from the department of environment of the local government, had on August 8, visited his shop located at Mechanic village in Auchi with allegations that his shop constituted nuisance to the public and also claimed that the shop bread Lassa fever epidemic.
He said that the officials further claimed that they had order from the court asking them to demolish his shop after which he told them that he did not receive any court order to that effect.
Onyekwe said there were hundreds of shops in the mechanic village and wondered why the council authority singled out his own for demolition.
According to him, “I was surprise to watch them helplessly as they carry out the act and destroy my motor spare parts and dump my goods along the roadside. I have never seen where a motor spare part is having Lassa fever.
He also said that his problem started when the mechanic union chairman, one Mr. Bashiru came to lock up his shop on March 21 this year for suing him (Bashiru) to court, adding that the matter was still in court before the authority of the council came to demolish his shop.
The spare parts dealer added that “the issue had earlier been reported to the palace of the Otaru of Auchi where I was denied fair hearing and I quite believed that maybe because I am not an indigene of the area that is why I was treated that way.
“All I need in this matter is justice, I believe we are one Nigerian and everybody is supposed to be treated equally no matter where you come from,” he said.
Reacting to the allegations, an official of the environmental department of the local government said Onyekwe’s shop was demolished after it was discovered to be constituting environmental nuisance within the area but could not say why other shops selling the same parts in the area were not demolished.