The government demolished my shop two months after our engagement and I had to start over. I told my man to help me with capital, but he said he only has money for our wedding, that he can give me to start my business, and anytime I get it back, we will get married.
I am really scared. What if I don’t make the capital back? Will that mean I am the one holding my own wedding back? He is willing to give me three million. Should I collect this morning and do my business or just forget it and get married? He is just a normal business guy, not so rich but comfortable. Comments
@officialblessingceo: Get married to him, but collect the three million and plan your wedding with 1.5 million. Gather the money from the wedding, plus the 1.5 million and start from somewhere, so you will not have to be under any pressure to pay or feel guilty. It’s called being smart.
@cindynwokebirinwa: Plan your life with that money. Divide into two. Use half for the business and save up half for your wedding. I guess he really wants to know how well you can manage money, so be wise. Don’t let the internet rush you. I’m sure you saw a wedding card recently that had no provision for a reception. Plan within your current resources. People will only eat and go, but the suffering… na only you and hubby go suffer if you don’t plan yourself well. Be wise.
@adeolaxoxoxo: Do wedding, no reception. Use the rest for business.
@angela.kanu111: But why do you people think marriage is everything? My dear marriage isn’t an achievement okay?
@daintyfashionoutfit: Aunty, collect the money and invest half in your business and use the remaining half for the wedding. (But make a silent promise yourself to have a beautiful/grand five year wedding anniversary, all expenses on you.) That’s a wise way to challenge and push yourself.
@diamond_.darius: Some people are really expecting me to do a wedding of three million? I laugh, N500,000, I don do wedding. No reception, go house go eat wetin you fit. I go come go feed people wey I no know because I wan impress crowd, rubbish.