LAGOS – Senator Seye Ogulwewe, former minister of works has said that Atiku Abubakar and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) can never get judgment in their favour because the flaws in the electoral laws will definitely militate against that, maintaining that the nation must review its electoral laws to meet the present realities. The former minister of works in a chat with Daily Independent on Thursday stated that the electoral law demanded that a presidential aspirant should have read up to a school certificate but was silent on presentation of such certificate. He said that a lot of flaws were imbedded in the electoral laws, pointing out that provisions were too simple and required literal interpretations. He said that it was wrong to use card readers when it was not included in the law. He stressed that if the country was serious and would want to have a credible election that the time had come for a review of the electoral laws. Meanwhile, Dr. Bimbo Ogunkelu, a PDP chieftain and former minister of Cooperation and Integration in Africa had frowned at the judgment and stressed that the Judges based their judgment on technicalities and said that the party had another chance at the Supreme Court, according to him, PDP had totally rejected the judgment. Ogunlewe wondered how the judiciary would begin to interpret something that was not in law. He said that electronic transfer of results was good if the nation really desired to grow the country’s democracy. He insisted that it was not the responsibility of the judiciary to put that in the laws and said it was laughable that the judiciary was expected to interpret what was not in the laws. He said that an urgent review of the electoral laws was necessary to avoid expecting that the judiciary would begin to make laws as well as interpret the laws. The former minister who dumped the PDP for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) few months ago said that it would be difficult for former vice president Atiku Abubakar and the PDP to have judgment in their favour because the multitude of flaws in the electoral laws had mitigated their chances.