LAGOS – Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) declined by 0.16 percent in the second quarter of 2019, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said on Tuesday. The NBS also revealed that the GDP grew by 1.94 percent in real terms within the same period. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the report, if compared to the second quarter of 2018, which recorded a growth of 1.50 percent, the growth observed in Q2 2019 indicates an increase of 0.44 percent. However, when compared to 2.10 percent recorded in the first quarter of 2019, the Q2 2019 real growth rate indicates a decline of 0.16 percent. “During the quarter, aggregate GDP stood at N34.944 trillion in nominal terms, an increase of 13.83 percent over the performance in the second quarter of 2018 and 9.8 percent over the preceding quarter,” the report noted. The NBS said the performance observed in Q2 2019 follows an equally strong first-quarter performance, and was likely aided by stability in oil output as well as the successful political transition. Overall, a total of 15 activities grew faster in Q2 2019 relative to last year, while 13 activities had higher growth rates relative to the preceding quarter. On a half-year basis, real growth in the first half of 2019 stood at 2.02 percent, higher than in 2018 which was 1.69 percent. When analysed quarter on quarter, real GDP increased by 2.85 percent compared to a decline of –13.69 percent in the preceding period. Reacting to the new GDP figures, Lukman Otunuga, Senior Research Analyst at FXTM, said: “Investor confidence over the health of Nigeria’s economy is being tested after economic growth slowed in the second quarter of 2019. “Nigeria’s GDP slowed to 1.94 percent from the 2.1 percent achieved in the first quarter of 2019 as oil output declined slightly. “One would have expected economic momentum to pick up after the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) cut interest rates in March and forced lenders to dish out more credit in a bid to boost growth. “However, it is becoming quite clear that as long as oil dependence remains one of Nigeria’s biggest risk, this will continue weighing heavily on the economy for the rest of 2019. “The disappointing GDP data should nudge the CBN to cut interest rates for the second time this year in September in an effort to stimulate growth. “While lower rates have the potential to keep the economy running, the answer to Nigeria’s woes can be found in diversification. The level of progress the nation has made in breaking away from the shackles of oil reliance remains a question for many with even the International Monetary Fund urging the nation to diversify revenues.” In a related development, analysts at Renaissance Capital, in an economic note released on Tuesday, said there is upside risk to inflation and interest rates in Nigeria over the short to medium term. They pointed out that just like other oil exporters and importers on the continent, Nigeria is struggling to contain its budget deficits fuelled by low non-oil revenue at 3-4 percent of GDP, anaemic growth of less than 2 percent and a moderate oil price. “Our analysis leads us to believe that there is potential upside risk to inflation and interest rates in Nigeria, Ghana, and Zambia. Kenya’s outlook is more benign. “Nigeria had high inflation even when its government was not borrowing from its central bank. However, the government sought central bank financing in 2016 when the oil price was low and the deficit widened. We expect revenue constraints to place Nigeria’s budget deficit at further risk of widening (4.5% of GDP, 2020E). “We think this implies nascent central bank financing may be sustained, placing upside risk on inflation and interest rates,” the analysts said.