Hon. Mufutau Egberongbe, a former member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, is the member representing Apapa Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, the lawmaker expressed the belief that Nigeria has a lot to celebrate as the nation marks her 59th year of gaining independence. He also spoke on other issues of national interest. Excerpts: In a matter of days, it will be 59 years that Nigeria got her independence. Would you say we have anything to celebrate? Of course, we have so many things to celebrate. For the fact that we are still together, the fact that we have not gone to war, these are worth celebrating. Look at the Arab spring, look at the Sudan war and so many more, so I think we still have cause to thank God that we are still together as a nation. Though there are some challenges but those challenges are not insurmountable. You will see that our democracy is gradually evolving, we have had a situation where a sitting president had been unseated and the transition went on smoothly without any rancour, all these are still dynamics of an evolving nation. You have seen the handshake across the Niger initiated by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu where parties came together to form another party, those from the south aligning with those of the north to form a new party and clinching the presidential office. Majorly, I think our people need to be patient with the system because state evolves overtime as a gradual progression. You cannot start walking without crawling. I must be quick to add that the hallmark of this administration still remains integrity on the part of the president. The issue of corruption even though there has been argument that it is one sided, but yet, you can still not fault those that have been apprehended and if you are not too comfortable, the court is there as an arbiter of justice. Most especially too, the ratio between our capital and recurrent expenditures is high in recent time that we are putting so much monies into developmental projects and I think that with time, we will actually get to where we are going. Going forward, I will expect us to declare a state of emergency on the power sector because electricity is so key to any development. We should do more on improving our electricity supply and let us get more of human capital development. Let us review our curriculum to entail more of vocational and technical education as an upshoot to technological advancement; let us do more of marine education, there are so many employment opportunities in the marine industry; let our academic curriculum be tailored towards the needs of the society. You pointed out the fact that there are still some surmountable challenges and one of these challenges, which the nation has continued to battle especially since the attainment of democracy is insecurity, which includes kidnapping, militancy, banditry, the Boko Haram insurgency and so on. Some of these challenges have even forced a section of the country to continue to demand secession. Why has it been difficult for successive governments in Nigeria to tackle the issue of insecurity 59 years after independence? Secession will not necessarily solve the issue of insecurity. Look at the issue of kidnappings and the much taunted herdsmen crisis, when some people were caught, you discovered that some of them are not even Fulanis. Who says if IPOB goes their way today, there won’t still be kidnappings in the South East? It is about our value as a people that needs to be re-orientated; our values of old should be revived. Going straight to your question on security, every security activity is localised. I have canvassed that on the floor of the House that our kings and chiefs should be involved in the issue of security, the reason being that they know the locality very well. You have the local hunters that adorn these bushes where the kidnappers are, they know the terrains and they are field marshals in the various bushes they harness. So they are in a better stead to nip in the bud this issue of insecurity. To complement that is the need for technological application, let us involve more of CCTV cameras on our highways and adorn our streetlights with CCTV cameras so that unsuspecting movements can be harnessed in due time. Also, there is the need for training and re-training of our officers on surveillance and get them motivated as well including insurance. So where does state policing system come in all of these? This is one thing Nigerians have continued to clamour for but it seems the government is not really interested. State police is very important because it is only when you employ people from an area that know the dark spots and the terrains and know the bad guys in the area. But when you employ someone in Lagos and post him to Gombe or Taraba, where he doesn’t even know the streets, then he has failed ab initio. Let states imitate Lagos in the area of this neighbourhood safety corps. And I think the neighbourhood safety corps in Lagos State should be trained to carry arms, if individuals could be licensed to possess guns, then that institution should be licensed too. The fear has always been there that the state governor will misuse the state police, then we can as well say that the federal government too will misuse the federal police. The House recently summoned the Security Chiefs and they failed to appear, which got the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila infuriated and he threatened to report them to the President. And few days after, some of them showed up while the Chief of Army Staff and the Inspector General of Police sent representatives. Is the House not empowered to take a drastic action on these service chiefs? There are relevant sections of the law that give the House the power to call on anybody at anytime, including the president to give account of their activities, nobody is above the law and I believe we should be civil even as military, to be accountable to the people. I would only admonish that they should try and respect the House, which owns the power entrusted by over 180 million Nigerians. We give them money and we can ask them how the money has been expended and what their challenges are, all in the betterment of the society. Few weeks ago, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) disclosed that it has imposed charges on deposits and withdrawals in addition to the existing charges. Despite the call by the House of Representatives on the CBN to suspend this move, the CBN has vowed to go on and also, the federal government increased VAT rate from 5 to 7.2 per cent. Don’t you think all these are coming at a wrong time? I would have expected the CBN to brief the National Assembly, both the upper and lower chambers being the representatives of the people. And some of these new injections into the economy in terms of VATs and bank charges, one would have expected that the House is briefed. But be that as it may, I do not expect any increase in tax of any kind going by what the populace is going through right now. One would have expected widening of our tax net to capture especially those in the informal sector with a view to shore up our revenue but necessarily increasing the VAT. Yes the argument has always been there that the tax is a consumption tax and that if you don’t consume, you don’t pay the tax, but in a charged atmosphere, a charged economy and a charged polity as we are, even the purchasing power of the people is weak, if you add that to it, people tend to consume low since there is no much money in their pockets, and when they consume low, this tends to affect the manufacturers or the service providers of those products. So when people are not purchasing these products, what will happen is that the companies will close down and this will lead to under employment and the payee tax that is coming from workers will no longer be there. So I don’t think it is advisable in the circumstances. What I think we should concentrate on is doing more of capital expenditures that will generate economic activities and when you do constructions, people will buy iron sheets, they will buy granites, the carpenters, the bricklayers, the engineers, everybody will have work and they work, they pay tax, that will eventually shore up our earnings and revenues. That is what I think we should concentrate on, rather than increasing the tax in the supposedly weak economy of ours. The House of Representatives has recommended the Chairman of Air Peace Airline, Barrister Allen Onyema for a national award for his role in evacuating Nigerians affected by the recent xenophobic attacks in South Africa, just as the House has decided to make the Air Peace its official airline. In your own view, what kind of national award do you think is befitting for a man who has displayed this manner of gesture? What that man did is a yeoman’s job and therefore he deserves a national award. Secondly, as a form of motivation, I think there must be some tax reliefs in his business too and thirdly, that airline should be converted to a national carrier. He is a good face of Nigeria, he has showcased a true Nigerian spirit. Those people he has gone to South Africa to bring back home are not of the same ethnic tribes, some are Igbos, some are Yorubas and some are Hausas, it shows he is a highly detribalised person, who is interested in the well-being of this nation. So he should be a face of a new Nigeria and Air Peace should be our national carrier. For those Nigerians who have been brought back home from South Africa, how do you think the government can assist them to have a better life, considering the fact that some of them have to abandon their businesses over there in South Africa? We have so many SME programmes, they should be integrated into our small scales enterprise programmes and those of them that are into farming should be made to access the agricultural loans, which is of course is always a single digit. There are so many of SMEs programmes of the states and federal government that they can benefit from. So I think they should be encouraged into doing that and this can be achieved after you have been able to identify what they were doing in South Africa. You made a call sometimes ago that the current 774 local governments in the country’s constitution should be scrapped while each state should be allowed to create the number of local government areas it desires. How do you think this will work, who will be responsible for funding of the local governments? In advanced democracy the world over, and in a true federalism, what we have is the national and the state. The federal government, which is in Abuja, cannot know the configuration of any state better than the state. What the constitution so says, as provided by the 1999 constitution, is that the local governments are the creation of the state. The creation of the local governments is at the discretion of the states and they can so create as much as they want at anytime they want for the development of the states. In that case, would the state be responsible for funding of these local governments since they can create as much as they want? That is the position of the Joint Account Allocation Committee (JAAC) and JAAC itself is a creation of the 1999 Constitution as amended. All monies meant for local governments will come through the states and the states distribute to these local governments. Everyone can see the level of development that we have in hinterland of Lagos. Imagine having one local government covering the whole of Alimosho for instance, looking at the land mass, now it has been divided into about five. The same thing with Ikorodu, where you have Ijede Imota and other LCDAs, all those places would have been under just one local government, you know what that means considering the proximity and what have you. So what we are saying is about development and it is very important. There have been allegations that some forces in the presidency are mounting pressure on the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, to resign his position. Many have argued that this is a ploy to scheme the South West out of the 2023 presidential race. Do you also share this view? There is no empirical evidence and as a lawmaker, you can’t just join the public in raising alarm that is not concretised. To me, that is just pure politics and I will not want to be part of such. As lawmakers, whatever we say, we have to be cautious because the people are looking up to us. We won’t be part of rumour peddling; we would just leave at that as a rumour. You just mentioned now that the people are looking up to you as lawmakers. As we celebrate the 59th year of attaining independence on Tuesday, what should the people expect from the 9th Assembly? The theme of this 9th Assembly is Nation Building, a Joint Task. That is the theme as envisaged by the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila. You will see that what we have now is a rainbow of all political parties such as the APC, PDP, APGA, ADC, so it is a joint task towards building a new and a viral nation. The leaderships of this Assembly are so committed to this task of nation building and they will use all instruments at their disposal to supporting the executive and would not shrink at their oversights if need be. It is of no use when you have a legislature that would be a tiger to the executive for no reason or for pecuniary gains, we have to complement the efforts of the executive for the development of the nation and this is where we are. The Speaker has made it clear that never again in the Assembly would resolutions be passed to the executive arm and it will not be met, which had been the case in the past. He has made it clear that the resolutions of the house, though persuasive, but have the force of the law and should be respected by the executive. I don’t think a house that is desirous of pocketing itself under the executive will come up with such declaration that going forward, its resolutions have the force of the law. Also, I don’t think the masses voted us in so that we will be fighting the executive but what the masses are interested in is a collaboration that will be useful to the masses, which will bring dividends of democracy and even development.