LOKOJA/YENAGOA – Musa Wada has emerged the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State. The chairman of the governorship primary election committee, Ahmadu Fintiri, told newsmen on Wednesday in Lokoja that Wada emerged by polling 748 votes to beat 12 other aspirants. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Fintiri, who is the governor of Adamawa, also disclosed that another aspirant, Abubakar Ibrahim, polled 710 votes to come second, while former Governor Idris Wada came third with 345. Other aspirants and their scores as announced by Fintiri were Sen. Dino Melaye, 70 votes; Aminu Abubakar Suleiman, 55; Victor Adoji, 54; Erico Ahmeh, 42; AVM Salihu Atawodi (rtd), 11; Mohamed Shaibu, 4; Bayo Averehi, 2; Emmanuel Omebije, 9 and Mrs. Grace Adejoh polled 0. The committee chairman said that he decided to announce the results, having been satisfied that the conduct of the primaries had complied substantially with the provisions of the party’s constitution. “We have performed well and we should be commended by all the aspirants,” the governor said. He said that 2,388 delegates were accredited for the election while 2,109 votes were cast. He also said that 54 voided votes were recorded, with 244 unused ballots, while 247 ballot papers could not be accounted for. Fintiri also said that the 247 missing ballot papers could be as a result of the invasion of the venue of the primary by yet-to-be-identified gunmen, saying that the number was not enough to damage the integrity of the exercise. He added that any aggrieved aspirant was free to lodge appeal with the national secretariat of the party. In his reaction, Melaye expressed dissatisfaction with the conduct and the outcome of the election. He claimed that the winner was allowed to bring over 600 votes from his house which, he said, the committee accepted and counted in his favour. Melaye, who spoke through his agent, Femi Obalemo, said that he would appeal the decision of the committee. Also speaking, Ibrahim, who came second, said that the winner defeated him with 38 votes, which, he said, was not up to the missing 247 ballot papers. Lyon Wins Bayelsa APC Guber Primary In a similar development, David Lyon has emerged the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Bayelsa State governorship election. Lyon polled 42, 138 votes to defeat five other aspirants in the primary election of the party conducted on Wednesday by the APC Bayelsa State Governorship Primary Election Committee chaired by the Yobe State governor, Mai-Mala Buni. Lyon is believed to be the choice of the Minister of State for Petroleum and former governor of Bayelsa State, Timipre Sylva. The collation officer for the poll, Senator Emmanuel Dangana, who declared the results in Yenagoa, said a retired female Commissioner of Police, Diseye Poweigha, scored 1,533 votes to clinch the second position while Maureen Etebu got the third position with 964 votes.