LAGOS – The advisory board of the Nigeria Prize for Science on Wednesday has announced the works by Professor Meihong Wang, a Chinese and Dr. Matthew Aneke on Carbon Capture, Carbon Utilization, and Biomass Gasification and Energy Storage for Power Generation as the winning works for the 2019 Nigeria Prize for Science, worth $100, 000. In its 15 years history, the 2019 event marked the third joint winners and the first time a non-Nigerian has been awarded the prize, which is sponsored by Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) since inception in 2004. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The announcement was made by the chairman of the Advisory Board for the Science Prize and an NLNG Science Prize Laureate, Prof. Akpoveta Susu, at a press conference in Lagos. In her remarks on the verdict, Eyono Fatayi-Williams, NLNG’s General Manager External Relations and Sustainable Development, represented by Sophia Horsfall, NLNG’s Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager, said trusting the judgment of the panel of judges, who have proven expertise on the issue of Climate Change, and the Advisory Board members, who bring credibility to the process by ensuring excellent results, NLNG was confident that an objective and qualitative decision was made on this year’s edition of the prize. She stated that the announcement was memorable for NLNG as the Prize marks 15 years, which coincides with the Company’s anniversary of 20 years of successful operation and 30 years of incorporation, adding that the Prize was inspired by NLNG’s vision of helping to build a better Nigeria, through deliberate support for scientific research and celebration of excellent works. In the same vein, the Nigeria Prize for Literature panel of judges has also announced three books Boom Boom by Jude Idada; Mystery at Ebenezer Lodge by Dunni Olatunde and The Great Walls of Benin by O.T. Begho as finalists for the prize. One of the books, based on the verdict of the judges, and the advice of an international consultant, Professor Kelvin Nyong Toh, a professor of English at University of Bamenda, Cameroun, will become the winning entry for the 2019 edition of the prize in October. According to the judges, the book, Boom Boom, is narrated through the eyes of an innocent child as he struggles with the bond of relationships, love, affection, friendship, loyalty and trust in times of crisis.