Yenagoa – Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, on Tuesday, swore in five newly-appointed Special Advisers, promising to appoint more persons into his administration six months to the end of his tenure. Those sworn-in includes the former Chairman, Caretaker Committee of Sagbama Local Government Council, Mr Michael Magbisa, and his Yenagoa counterpart, Mr Austin Sambo. Others include the former Caretaker Committee Chairman of Kolokuma/Opokuma, Mr Tolumoye Bikikoro, Mr Pius Andabai-Wareyai and Mr Ebilade Ekerefe. There are over 140 special advisers and over 2,000 appointees engaged by Dickson “to render necessary services to the state and to give a sense of belonging and legitimate support to party members.” The governor, according to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Fidelis Soriwei, reiterated during the swearing ceremony held at the Government House, Yenagoa, that his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would record another landslide victory in the forthcoming governorship election. He said that no amount of propaganda, intimidation and financial inducement could sway the majority of the people from voting for the PDP. Dickson, however, said despite the traumatic post-primary poll crisis facing the main opposition in the state, his party would not leave any stone unturned in its preparations for the upcoming poll. He said, “We are preparing the ground to usher in the next administration and make no mistake, the next administration is going to be a PDP-led administration in our state. Make no mistake, the Ijaw nation has no room for APC, this state is a PDP home. “We are the only party that has a validly nominated candidate for the election. Mark my words “validly nominated candidates, that’s what the law requires and the person most qualified. As we speak, the other side, the APC, does not have a validly nominated candidate.” Congratulating the new special advisers, Dickson described their appointments as recognition of the important contributions made in their previous assignments. He urged them to join other members of the Restoration Government to mobilise more support for right causes that would promote the continued stability, peace and development of the state. He assured that more young people would be appointed into positions of trust in the coming days as part of efforts aimed at rewarding loyalty, dedication and hard work. “This swearing-in is just a tip of the iceberg. By tomorrow or next, more young people who have already been identified across the various local government areas and other stakeholders would be brought in as our way of broadening the base of our restoration government. It is also our way of identifying young people who need to be given responsibility. “I implore you all to continue to do what you have been doing, mobilising support and laying the foundation for a great and prosperous Bayelsa that we have all stood by the last 8 years. “By tomorrow or before the end of the week a number of them that were identified will be brought in to be involved.”