Chief Ayo Opadokun, elder statesman and Secretary- General of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), in this interview speaks on the current developments in the polity. The Convener, Coalition of Democrats for Electoral Reforms (CODER) also assesses President Muhammadu Buhari’s performance in the last four years as well as proffer solutions on some challenges the nation is going through. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: President Muhammadu Buhari said his administration will continue to focus on the three cardinal agenda of his first term to improve the economy, secure the country and fight corruption. As an elder statesman and concerned Nigerians, what is your take on the current state of security of the nation? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network I am worried about the state of insecurity in the country and from the statement of Mr. President himself and his associates; they are also worried about it. That is a quick response to your question. But then, those who will want to get cheap publicity will have to understand the state of insecurity we have in the land from the perspective of the global setting we are in now. Insecurity has been building up over the years before Buhari came into office. The Western powers were culpable in the state of insecurity that has spread all over the world, particularly the United States of America. The falsehood with which they embarked upon the invasion of Iraq on the basis of the fact that Saddam Hussein was having weapons of mass destruction and then toppled that government, which was a stabilising government has led to the creation of ISIS, Al-Qaeda and several versions of those groups and they spread globally. When the former governor of Zamfara, Ahmad Yerima established Sharia law in Nigeria, we cautioned the then President Olusegun Obasanjo that action was an unacceptable violation of the 1999 constitution, however objectionable we were to that constitution. Society cannot be governed by two separate laws. Because Obasanjo allowed it, 12 additional states also joined in order for them to be able to win election. Then Obasanjo said it was just a political sharia and it will soon fade out. Here are we today, it has not faded out. The hypocrisy and dishonesty in the whole scheme is clear. You prohibit the sale of alcohol yet you want to take the largest chunk of the money realised from the sale of alcohol, cigarettes and the likes which is VAT.The start of Boko Haram began when Ali Modu Sheriff was there. He financed the operation for the kickoff for his political activities. But when he thought that the young men were no longer useful to him, he started attempting to distance himself from them and they felt aggrieved and started unleashing terror because they believed and they said clearly that he was collecting huge sums of money from the centre on their behalf yet those monies were being expended by him and his cohorts at their expense. So, they said they will not allow Ali Modu Sheriff and his people have rest any longer. Two times, their leader, Mohammed Yusuf and some of his subordinates were arrested. What did Obasanjo do? They blackmailed him and because he is essentially a coward; they falsified events and they said those who arrested him in the DSS and brought them to detention in Abuja were Christians and so they should be released. That was why when the group had an expanded base and became a thorn in the flesh of the system, they were now accusing the SSS, the SSS had to respond about several efforts they had made to nip the upsurge of that group in the bud and what the government has done to release them . So, they are not guilty of anything. So, if what eventually turned out to be Boko Haram and the Sharia thing had been curbed from that time, we will get to where we are today. So, it amazes me that Obasanjo is now claiming to be holier than the Pope and alleging that President Buhari has failed to provide security. He is just being hypocritical and being dishonest in its entirety. What did he do while he was President? He had the opportunity of nipping this insurgency in the bud but he never did and he created problems for succeeding governments. Has President Buhari’s efforts in curbing the activities of the sect yielded any desired efforts? Now by the time Buhari came in, the expansion of the base of Boko Haram has been so extensive that they caught the attention of ISIS and Al-Qaeda and they linked up. So, the Maghreb region of Africa and the Sahel region were able to exchange ideas and finance, funding became available for these fundamentalists, to the extent that they could do so much and they capture over 14 local governments of a Nigerian state before Buhari came into office. The fact is; the thing became so expansive to the extent that government was forced to allocate money for the purchase of weapons so that these fundamentalists could be fought headlong. However, the money that was budgeted for the purchase of arms was diverted and distributed among politicians to run their elections. The result is what we are finding from the Office of the National Security Adviser. The then NSA (Sambo Dasuki) became the treasurer, Chancellor for Exchequer of money that was ought to be used to buy critical weapons to fight the insurgents who have superior arsenals we never had. When Buhari came, the first thing he did was to go to Chad to hold meetings with neighbouring countries. From there, he moved to other places so that he could understand the realities of what is happening. As at that time, the insurgents had been given not only money but also logistics and trainings because this is not a conventional warfare. The army is trained for conventional warfare but these insurgents are not conventional combatants so the way they operate is so diversified. For me, I believe the Buhari administration has done its little best to have stopped the incessant attacks of soft targets which Boko Haram has been doing over time even though their best may not be good enough. How has the Nigerian Armed forces fared under him as Commander-in- Chief? Everywhere, particularly in Third World countries, when you have situation of insurgencies or something like civil war, the military top shots and their juniors, many times don’t like the war to be over because it affords them the opportunity of making money and that is being manifested now. You can’t put a significant blame on the Commander-in- Chief in that situation because that is what he met on ground having been out of the military for over 30 years. It takes time for him to confront the security situation and do the two other things he has promised which are fighting corruption and revamping the economy. So, in the final analysis, my position is that President Buhari needs to do more. He needs to be more active. But I am happy to see that he has changed the Minister of Interior and Defence. What about replacement of the Service Chiefs which a lot Nigerians believe is long overdue? Those of us who are outside government are most unlikely to appreciate what those in government are doing. I am not a spokesperson for government but truth of the matter is, in the Third World, the Commander-in-Chief ’s fear in changing Service Chiefs is because of the consciousness of their own preservation that anything can happen; and it has happened. Milton Obote, the man who promoted Idi Amin as General in Uganda was toppled by the same Idi Amin. We have a situation where a significant number of Nigeria’s retired Generals are in terrific gang-up against Buhari and some of them still have their pockets of loyalties within the Army. So, for anyone of us who is outside of government now to be insisting that Buhari must change the people he knows is a dangerous game one is asking him to play; to commit suicide. I was reading on the social media few days ago that he wanted to change the Service but he was cautioned that he can’t vouchsafe the loyalty of the next people who will be coming in as Service Chiefs. For a more matured mind, we can understand the implication of power globally but one will not be flippant as to insist and abusing the President for not changing Service Chiefs. He is the one on the seat and he has all the intelligence reports. One thing Nigerians should understand is that Buhari is a marathon runner and not a relay racer. What about his promise on revamping the economy, how has he fared in this area? He has tried in this area too but the economy has not yielded the desired dividends. I believed that if he wants to be reckoned with at the end of his second term, he will need to do much more and think out of the box. His government will need to totally abandon the trajectory they followed during the first term. That trajectory has not yielded expanded economy nor provided expansive basis for the employment for the teeming unemployed people in the country. My advice on the economy is that Nigeria is so gifted and endowed by God to have a large expanse of uncultivated lands in different parts of the country, with particular crops that could grow in such number that we can build our fortunes upon them. My advice to President Buhari is that agriculture should be the most important basis of his economic activities. There is urgent need for them to get out of the stone-age, archaic agricultural activities and embrace the modern technologically-driven method. Agriculture should be taken as a business because I know that for sure, you can create many millionaires if you mechanise agriculture. If this is done, a lot of people will be employed. Now, you use current technology to follow agriculture through all the value chains so much that from the clearing of thee farm sites, the planting of the crops, harvesting, processing of the crops and packaging until it gets to the last end where a real product can be delivered to the end users. You will employ many people through this method. I believe that our technological take-off in this country can only be meaningful if we start from agriculture. The impression among some Nigerians is that corruption is being perpetrated right under the nose of the President while his anti-corruption war is also lopsided. What is your perspective on that? The President has also started well on the war against corruption. Those who are accusing him of being selective are wrong because you cannot prosecute everybody at the same time. However, I have one major objection to what we are doing. The Nigerian Army as an institution deliberately undermined the efficiency of the Nigerian Police. All these EFCC, ICPC and the likes are police job and the officers they are using in these organisations are policemen. So, they waste a lot of resources on these sectors because the different organisations have to be financed whereas if we have modernised the Nigerian Police and give them the necessary training, logistics and welfare programmes, they will perform to optimum capacity. Any country that has lost an efficient police service has lost it and that was what led to the level of corruption that we are in now. The major entry of corruption into our public service was at the instance of General Murtala Mohammed How did he do that? People will not know that just before he overthrew Yakubu Gowon, he (Murtala) had a major crisis with Engr. Theophilus Oluwole Akindele, Director-General of Communications of the Ministry of Communications when Murtala was the Federal Commissioner for Communications during the regime of Gen. Yakubu Gowon. They are to award a telecommunication contract and because he (Akindele) was the most experienced, he presided over the technical processes of the bidding and they didn’t recommend ITT. Murtala went to Yakubu Gowon, the Head of State and wanted Akindele sacked. Gowon objected saying he cannot do anything like that. He said if there is anything, Murtala should go and meet the chairman of the Civil Service Commission, Alhaji Sule Katagum. Murtala went to Katagum and he also told him it is not possible to just sack a Director like that. He told him if Akindele has committed and offence, Murtala should issue him a query. Let him answer the query and then the Service Commission will do its job. Every efforts made by Murtala to get Akindele sacked failed. So, when they overthrew Gowon’s government, in his first world press conference, the first thing Murtala did was to disband the Public Service Commission and on that day in the 4pm announcement, they announced the sack of many senior ministry officials with immediate effect. Many of these sack officials could not return to their offices to take their personal effects. It was the first thing in Nigeria that destroyed the Public Service. That was when civil servants now realise that nothing is permanent in public service, they have to make the hay while the sun shines because they don’t know what tomorrow may bring as they may be sacked anytime, even for committing no offence. That was when corruption became a major thing in Nigeria. Most of the public servants today are richer than politicians. They ruined the public service and expanded corruption all that Ibrahim Babangida came to do was to institutionalise it. It is not easy to wipe out corruption dramatically. What other climes have done, I am not sure Buhari can do it because of our circumstances. When a public servant is caught today for corruption, he will bring together some youths from his tribe and they will organise a press conference alleging that he is being witch-hunted. That is why people get away with murder here. One thing about Buhari is that he doesn’t take haphazard decisions. He is a very meticulous man. When you accused a man of committing murder, Buhari wants to hear from the other side and that takes time in government.