LAGOS – The Lagos State House of Assembly has warned members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state to desist from every form of violence or risk being banned from operating in the state.
Some members of the state chapter of Union, had on Wednesday, staged a protest at the House of Assembly, rejecting the emergence of Musiliu Akinsanya aka MC Oluomo, as the Chairman of the caretaker committee of the body in the state.
While briefing his colleagues at an emergency sitting on Thursday evening, about the protest, member representing Ojo Constituency 1, Victor Akande explained that some NURTW members in the state came to complain that Akinsanya was imposed on them as a caretaker chairman.
Akande added that the protesters alleged that Akinsanya and his supporters were working against the constitution of the union and that being one of the contenders for the position of the union chairman shouldn’t have been given the caretaker chairmanship, as they believed he would use this position to impose himself as the state chairman.
Lending his voice to the matter, Olawale Olayiwola representing Mushin Constituency 2, urged his colleagues to as a matter of urgency look into the matter.
According to Olayiwola, “NURTW issue is a case we should quickly intervene and we should also critically look at it. Their matter is always a delicate one. They’ve had transitions in the time past and some of them have not been violent. We should ensure proper security whenever they want to conduct their election and we should counsel them to accept whatever the outcome of their election is.”
On his part, Rotimi Olowo representing Shomolu 1, said it was time the union members were cautioned, “and we let them know that we won’t continue to condone violence from their end. They can’t continue to kill themselves in the name of electing a chairman.
“We know that one of them that was murdered some years back was killed by one of them. We should let them know that if they engage in any other form of violence again, we will proscribe their union,” Olowo stated.
While corroborating Olowo, Yinka Ogundimu (Agege Constituency 2), said, “I want to support Hon. Olowo that we should sound warning to them that if they can’t caution themselves, we will ban their union in Lagos State. They must adhere to the law of the state and cause any problem.”
On his part, Abiodun Tobun (Epe 1) pointed out that the union members have been killing themselves because of the huge money they are making from the state.
“They are making too much money from the union and that is why they are engaging in violence and killing each other every time. It’s wrong to have imposed someone on them. They should get a neutral person to be the Chairman so that there won’t be crisis.”
Deputy Speaker of the House, Wasiu Sanni-Eshinlokun, said his constituency, Lagos Island has been in chaos in the past few days because of clashes between members of NURTW.
His words: “Lagos Island has been in chaos in the past few days and three persons have been killed in the process. Some hoodlums have taken advantage of their crisis to rob and loot people’s shops in Lagos Island.
“They have engaged in serious chaos, they kill themselves and use it to count scores. They should try and embrace the spirit of sportsmanship. We should send warnings to them to stop violence.”
Speaker Mudashiru Obasa, in his ruling said, “If they are earning a living from our motor parks, they should be able to maintain peace and orderliness. Their election should not cause crisis and whenever they start, innocent ones are always the ones to suffer.
“If they engage in any crisis, we won’t hesitate to place a ban on them. We should write the governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to warn them not to engage in violence; else we will place a ban on them.”