Warri – Niger Delta ex-agitators under the aegis of Ex-Militants of the Urhobo and Isoko nations in Delta State have condemned in strong terms, the protests by some elements from the Ijaw nation particularly the Western Ijaw Consultative Assembly against the nomination of Prophet Jones Erue as NDDC Commissioner and Chief Bernard Okumagba as Managing Director of the Commission, stressing that the choice of these two men was the best appointment ever made by President Buhari in recent times. Rising from a meeting of the group on Wednesday morning at Palm Villa Hotel, Utako, Abuja, the ex-militants in a statement signed by ‘General’ Figbele Joseph, General Julius Omoyibo, General Emmanuel Okorode and General Stephen Bawharhe Oke among others, warned the Ijaw nation to desist from activities capable of igniting another round of ethnic crisis in Delta State, stressing that when Goodluck Jonathan was in power, ‘’Ijaw leveraged on that privilege to assume all available positions in the land to the detriment of other ethnic nationalities. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Ijaw nation cannot continue to hold Delta state to ransom over their petty ethnic interests. NDDC belongs to all and any position zoned to Delta South belongs to all the ethnic groups in Delta South’’, the Ex-Militants declared. The Urhobo and Isoko Ex-Militants disclosed that in all the NDDC appointments that have been allotted to Delta South, the Ijaw and Itsekiri nations are the greatest beneficiaries yet are not satisfied, stressing that whatever argument the Ijaws are putting forward was the height of mischief and pettiness. ‘’The Ijaw nation has been Senator for Delta South since 2003, while an Itsekiri was the immediate past Governor of Delta State for 8 years. An Ijaw man in the person of Prof Victor Peretomonode was Commissioner on the NDDC Board beside Val Arenyika, an Itsekiri, Elder P.Z Aginighan who also served as Executive Director, Finance and Administration on the NDDC Board before serving as Acting Managing Director. “Mr Tuoyo Omatsuli, an Itsekiri also served as Executive Director, Projects on the NDDC Board. All these are from Ijaw and Itsekiri nation without consideration for the Urhobos of Delta South. This is the only time an Urhobo man from Delta South is being considered for such an exalted position and anybody who is fighting against these nominations is only trying to provoke an ethnic crisis of unimaginable dimension. The protest by the Ijaw nation is a gross display of insensitivity and selfishness’’, the ex-militants declared. He warned the Ijaw nation to stop meddling in the matter of the appointment of the NDDC Board members, stressing that there are no better candidates than Prophet Jones Erue and Chief Bernard Okumagba considering their pedigree, academic qualifications, and experience. The Ex-militants also condemned the stance of the Niger Delta Governors on the matter, warning that ‘’those greedy governors who do not want anybody to meddle with the appointments of their Commissioners yet would not want President Buhari to have his way with appointments should bury their heads in shame and stay off this matter. Buhari has made the best choice with these men and anybody with a dissenting voice should hide in shame. ‘’We the Ex-Militants from the Urhobo and Isoko nations are pleased with President Muhhamadu Buhari with these appointments. He has done Delta State proud and anybody with a contrary opinion should stay at home with their impotent protests’’, the Ex-militants declared. Other ex-militants who signed the document are General Freeborn Golah, General Monday Koru, and General Esedede Orievwen.