Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie If you are living in a place like Nigeria, then you must be familiar with a travelling sack popularly known as “Ghana must go.” If I may ask, have you ever asked or wondered why this sack is nicknamed “Ghana must Go”? Just to refresh your memory – in case you have forgotten. There was a time in the history of Nigeria, and that was in the early 70’s, when the Nigerian economy was booming due to the oil market, the Ghanaians were mostly attracted to Nigeria because of the oil market. In 1983 when the Nigerian economy weakened and things started falling apart, the then President of Nigeria, Shehu Shagari issued an executive order mandating immigrants, especially Ghanaians  without proper immigration documents to leave the country or they would be arrested according to the law. That same year, President Muhammadu Buhari took over power and declared the famous War Against Indiscipline (WAI). With these pressures, the Ghanaian Migrants had no other option than to travel back to their country of origin. The evil that men do live, not just after them, but, with them! The migration was then named “Ghana Must Go.” Ghana Must Go was therefore a revolution to get rid of the Ghanaians from Nigeria, the so-called giant of Africa. As God, would have it, the Ghanaians quietly went back and started developing their economy. Today, all roads leads to Ghana. Everything in that country has greatly improved, including their power supply which Nigeria happens to be a major stakeholder. “I have listened to so many comments and reactions on what are happening in South Africa and I keep wondering why is it that people are not ready to face the fact. No one wants to address the major issue facing Nigeria. We are becoming so emotional. Nobody, not even our leaders, have come out to address the issue honestly and objectively. Pointing accusing fingers will not in any way solve the problem. South Africa is not the only Country that is fed-up with Nigerian migrants. Nigerians are deported from different parts of the world. Xenophobia is not just peculiar with South Africa alone. Most countries, including Nigeria, are closing their borders. When President Donald Trump of America started building walls against the migrants some people applauded him. Today, almost every country are building walls instead of bridges, without considering the global implication. With the massive ongoing deportation of Nigerians from different parts of the world, one may ask, Why does the world hate Nigerians? What are the crimes of Nigerians? Why are the Nigerians, especially the youths, trooping out of the country? If Nigerians are enjoying good governance and if Nigerian economy improves, do you think any reasonable Nigerian would prefer to risk his or her life in the desert or cruel places like South Africa? An unexamined life, according to Socrates, is not worth living. One interesting thing about history is that it enables us to evaluate the past in view of understanding and addressing the present. As historians rightly believe, He who does not know where he is coming from may not know where he is heading to. When we, the Nigerians, asked the Ghanaians to go back to their country of origin, they did not make the kind of noise we are making today. They quietly went back to develop their country’s economy. It was a learning experience for them. The Igbo people has an adage that says “Onye ajuru aju anaghi aju onwe ya.” meaning, if you are rejected by people, you should never reject yourself. Our Lord Jesus Christ knew that his disciples will encounter a place like South Africa and so he told them ahead of time, “If anyone will not welcome you, shake off the dust from your feet as you leave that house or town” (Matthew 10:14). Jesus did not ask his disciples to attack people for not receiving them, he did not ask them to go about destroying innocent people’s stores or firm in retaliation. He advised them to leave that town. “If South Africa is becoming unfriendly and unwelcoming for foreigners then all the foreigners should leave, if possible, to another country. After all, if not for corruption and mismanagement of resources by our selfish leaders, it is often said, “East of West Home is the best.” The South African youths are claiming that they are not employed in their own country, rather the foreigners are the ones occupying most of the key positions. “Well, they may be right or even wrong depending on where and how one looks at it. Remember, this is a country where people are ready to die fighting for their right. It is a country where people are aware of their fundamental human right. This is not the first time South Africans are fighting for their right. What made the Late President Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela so popular was his resolute fight against Apartheid, which is an institutionalised racial segregation that existed in South Africa from 1948 until the early 1990s. Imagine a situation where foreigners, especially the White, were the ones ruling the entire nation. Nobody will ever take this, not even the White people themselves. What then is the essence of Independence? Well, having won the battle, Mandela eventually became the first Black South African President. Almost all the Countries in Africa celebrated their victory over apartheid. Today, history is gradually repeating itself, but in another way. The South Africans are no longer fighting the White; they are now fighting their fellow Black Africans, including those who assisted them to fight against apartheid. well, that is life! The problem is not just what people call Xenophobia, any country and even landlord may decide to give quite notice to his or her tenant. The problem is not even with South Africa, after all, it is not today that they started fighting foreigners. Xenophobia could either be a war against White or against their Black foreigners. The government and the security agencies appear to be helpless in the situation. It has gone beyond the government’s control. That shows the level of insecurity in most countries in Africa. The problem has to do with Nigeria. The future of the Nigerian Youths is in a mess. I repeat, South Africa is not the only Country that have rejected or deported the Nigerians. So many countries across the world have become so antagonistic against the Nigerians. Unfortunately, they see Nigerians as those constituting nuisance in their countries. As the rejection and deportation of Nigerians across the world continues, I wonder how many countries we are going to boycott due to rejection of Nigerian migrants? It is not just enough to bring back Nigerians from South Africa or from different parts of the world where they are rejected. What plans do we have for these migrants? Does the Nigerian government have any programme for the rejected migrants? What is the way forward? In today’s Gospel from Luke 16:1-13 our Lord Jesus Christ presents sharing as the solution to poverty. In this passage, the Master commended his dishonest servant for using his wealth to make friends.  Jesus then told his followers, “Make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous mammon, so that when it fails they may receive you into eternal habitations.” Time has come when we have to use what we have to get what need. Time has come when we need to support one another. Time has come when we have to carry everybody along. Time have come when we have to say no to ethnicism and tribalism. Time has come when we all have to stand up against all forms of religious, political and cultural discrimination. Time has come when we have to unite as a nation to fight against bad governance. It is time to develop our economy and our nation. United we stand but divided we fall. Long live, the Federal Republic of Nigeria!