Akure – No fewer than 300 under-privileged women, youths and people with disabilities were on Saturday empowered by the Ondo State chapter of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in Akure, the state capital. Presenting cash to some women, youths and people with disabilities at St. Stephen Primary School, Akure, the state Chairman of the union, Jacob Adebo, said it was meant to enhance the beneficiaries’ trades and other businesses. A number of the youths were presented motorcycles with a view to using them for commercial purposes. Wheelchairs were also presented to some physically-challenged people at the event. The number-one driver in the state, who is popularly known as Idajo, explained that the union came up with the programme to assist some under-privileged in the society. He noted that most people needed about N5,000 to start a petty trade, but could not because they couldn’t raise such fund. Adebo observed that if some individuals and philanthropists in the state could assist the under-privileged, it would turn around their economic situations. He said the government could not solve all the problems of the people at the same time. According to him, “If the rich in our country could assist some of the poor people, the little businesses they would do would definitely have positive impact in their lives. “Government cannot solve all our problems at the same time, so we need some kindhearted people in the society to help the poor. “We members of NURTW Ondo State chapter believe we can also join hands with the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led administration to better the lot of the people by our little contributions.” He also disclosed that the choice of empowering youths was an attempt to discourage them from engaging in social vices, which could eventually lead them to jail. Adebo said the union remained agents of positive change and one of the most sensitive and organised body in the country. The NURTW boss, however, called on the people of the state to support Governor Akeredolu for successful implementation of his programmes and support him for second term in office. Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Yemisi Oladunjoye appreciated the kind gesture of the union, promising that the beneficiaries would make judicious use of the gift items given to them. Among dignitaries present at the event include Special Adviser to the state Governor on Transportation, Tobi Ogunleye Felix, state Commander of VIO, Adeleye; Public Relations Officer of APC in Akure South local government, Akinleye Olabanji, members of the union and others.