President Trump on Sunday accused Joe Biden of lying when the Democratic presidential frontrunner claimed that he hadn’t spoken to his son Hunter about his business dealings in Ukraine. Biden “made the mistake of saying he never spoke to his son,” the president told reporters as he readied to leave the White House for a trip to Texas and Ohio. “He did speak to his son, he lied again,” the president said. “I’m not looking to hurt Biden, but he did a very dishonest thing.”
Biden defended his son’s connection to a Ukrainian oligarch while he served as vice president in the Obama administration and threatened to withhold $1 billion in US aid unless Ukraine fired its top prosecutor Viktor Shokin. “I have never spoken to my son about his overseas business dealings,” Biden said​ Saturday while at a campaign stop in Iowa​. “Here’s what I know. Trump should be investigated.” Biden accused Trump of overstepping his authority by pressuring Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate his son because the former veep is a political rival. “​​​​​​He’s using an abuse of power and every element of the presidency to try to smear me … Ask the right questions​,” Biden said. But Trump, speaking Sunday, said Biden did a “very bad thing, a very foolish thing.” “​My ​conversation with the new president of ​U​kraine was perfect. ​T​hey put out a statement last night. ​T​hey said the same thing. It was a warm, ​friendly conversation. ​T​here was no quid pro quo​,” Trump said. The president, according to reports, repeatedly pressured Zelensky t​o cooperate with his lawyer Rudy Giuliani to investigate Hunter and even dangled $250 million in US military aid to Ukraine. The phone calls between Trump and Zelensky were revealed after a whistleblower filed a complaint in August with the inspector general of the intelligence community.
The report was handed over to the acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph Maguire who has refused to hand it over to Congress. Trump also said he would have “no problem” with Giuliani testifying before Congress. The president has ​​​raised questions about Biden warning Ukrainian officials that the US would cancel the aid unless the country dumped Shokin. At the time, Shokin was looking into an energy company that had Biden’s son on its payroll. Biden dismissed claims of impropriety, saying “not one single outlet has given any credibility to his assertion.” Ukraine’s current top prosecutor has said there is no evidence of wrongdoing by the Bidens.