ASABA – Utnited Front For Niger Delta (UFFND), a pressure group has said the appointment of Olorogun Bernard Okumagba as the new Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) by President Muhammadu Buhari is in order.
In a statement signed by its President, Mr Yede Gerke, the group said that the former Commissioner for Finance in Delta State would not disappoint the people.
While describing the appointment of Okumagba as well deserved, UFFND stated that he has been tested and trusted and has distinguished himself both in private and public life.
According to the group; “We want to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for the appointment of Okumagba, a renowned technocrat as the new Managing Director of NDDC. The President did not make a mistake in his choice of the new Managing Director of the Commission. He is very capable and he will bring his wealth of experience to bear in the discharge of his duty.
“We want to make it clear here that it is the turn of oil-rich Delta State to produce the Managing Director of the Commission and the President did the right thing by picking the Managing Director from Delta State and so those from Bayelsa State kicking against Delta State producing the Managing Director should join forces with the NDDC Managing Director to chart a new path for the overall development of the Region. Okumagba knows the pains of the people of the region and he is more than qualified for the position of the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission,” the group stated.
The group also said: “Okumagba is determined to tackle the numerous challenges facing the region and so we should all give him the needed support because he cannot do it all alone, together we can do it better and make the Region the envy of others and the new Managing Director will not let us down, he should be supported as soon as he hit the ground running.
“He has never failed in any given assignment and the issues affecting the region are very dear to him and we know that he will address them to the betterment of all. We therefore urge all Stakeholders to give him maximum support,” UFFND added.