Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie My fellow Nigerians will agree with me that the most peaceful regime in Nigeria was the reign of Late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. He was the 13th president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the former governor of Katsina State from May 29,1999 to May 28,2007. He was declared the winner of one of the controversial Nigerian presidential election held on April 21,2007, and was sworn in on May 29,2007. He was a member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). In 2009, he was the first to introduce amnesty in Nigeria. Yar’Adua left for Saudi Arabia to receive treatment and was reported dead on May 5, 2009. After his death Nigeria has never known peace – it has been from one insurgent to another, tribal and religious clashes here and there, the war between herdsmen and farmers has gone beyond control. Nigerians are now living in IDP camps. The Nigerian government has spent so much in the fight against insurgencies. Nigerians abroad have started embarrassing their leaders each time to see them in oversea. On the contrary, President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua of the blessed memory, assumed office when there was tension in Nigeria. The Niger Delta Militants were bombing pipelines and thereby disrupting the peace and unity of the nation. President Yar’Adua had the option of declaring oppression python dance of ‘python swim’ on those frustrated youths, he rather declared Amnesty, and he chose the path of peace and dialogue. People thought he was a weakling. Most people criticised him for his smilingly fragility, not knowing that there was strength and wisdom in mercy. Instead of killing the youths and creating more tensions in the land he offered them amnesty. The young people gradually embraced the amnesty programme. They surrendered their weapons. With this the Late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua was able to win the war against insurgencies without bloodshed. He was not a military man. He was not even a Christian. yet, he was a man of integrity, a man of peace, a man who respects the rule of law, a man who know the important of human life, a man who has the fear of God or if you like, the fear of Allah! For me, Yar’Adua remains the most powerful and most influential leader the Nigerian politic has ever produced. Christians and Muslim leaders have a lot to learn from this great leader. Two wrongs can never make a right. The current regime have applied all kinds of military force to address the issue of insurgencies, unfortunately none of them have yielded positive fruit. The more the force, the more our youths are becoming more violent and aggressive. The vulnerable ones are trooping out of the country. So, many of them have lost their lives either in the foreign desert or prison. Right now different parts of the world are fed up with Nigerians. They are been marginalised in most countries were they run to for refuge. The current Xenophobic attack against the Nigerians in South Africa is just one of the ugly situations facing Nigeria as a nation. Before we finally got ourselves in this mess, I have been lamenting through this medium on the importance of Youth Empowerment. I have consistently argued that if we refuse to empower our youth’s time will come, and unfortunately that time has finally come, when we shall not sleep with our two eyes closed. Right now, kidnappers are not just kidnapping poor people they are now getting more advanced and more sophisticated that they can now kidnap richmen even with their security convey. This is just the beginning. By the time more people are deported back home from foreign countries you can imagine what will happen. The government, the traditional rulers and even the Church leaders must wake up from their slumber. It is time to address the issue at hand. Political amnesty and Youth empowerment remains the only way forward. We all know that an idle mind is devil’s workshop. If we don’t engage our youths constructively the evil ones will continue to use them destructively. Imagine how this country would be if the government should channel the money it is spending on security to better the lives of the youths! They youth’s needs to be engaged. They need employment. They need empowerment! Our youths are not just lazy. Some of them are ready to work but there is no job available for them. People still pay through their nose to secure jobs. If you don’t have connection you are on your own. Nobody is ready to give you job or even admission base on merit. Apart from the government, who have refused to create employment for the youths the parents are not helping issue. Most of our parents are not ready to retire. At this juncture, I have to applaud the Edo State government for the new policy which states that those who have served the government for more than thirty-five years should retire. How I wish other states will emulate this. How I wish the politicians will apply this as well, you will be amazed how much space will be available for the youths. People may look at Amnesty or forgiveness as a weak political policy. Experience shows that forgiveness and amnesty is the only force that can pull down the wall of hatred and hostility. Forgiveness is a divine attribute. hence, to sin is human but to forgive is divine. It takes courage to let go. Human being demonstrates their weakness through vengeance and violence but God expresses his might and greatness through forgiveness. The weak ones are those who lack the ability to forgive. In today’s first reading from the book of Exodus 32:7-14 the Israelites provoked God, so much so that God wanted to wipe them out of the face of the earth. Moses pleaded on their behalf, saying, “O Lord, why does your wrath burn hot against your people, whom you brought out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand? 12 Why should the Egyptians say, ‘It was with evil intent that he brought them out to kill them in the mountains, and to consume them from the face of the earth’? Turn from your fierce wrath; change your mind and do not bring disaster on your people… 14 And the Lord changed his mind about the disaster that he planned to bring on his people.” I wonder how many leaders would have done what God did. By the way, who is Moses to instruct the Most High God? Who is he to change God’s plan? But God in his infinity kindness and even Humility had to take an advice from an ordinary creature. God changed his mind not because the Israelites repented. They did not even ask for mercy. But because of his beloved servant, Moses and because of His heart that is full of mercy and compassion, God had to change his mind. This is not the only time God changed his mind. Remember, the case of Nineveh. Jonah himself could not believe it. After delivering his message he was expecting Nineveh to be destroyed in the next forty days but when the King and the people of Nineveh cried to God, again, the Lord God changed his mind. If God had not changed his mind, may be, He would have declared operation python dance and you could imagine how many people would have lost their lives. No wonder the Psalmist rightly declares, “If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, Lord, who could stand? 4 But there is forgiveness with you, so that you may be revered.” Our God is a merciful God! Today’s gospel reading from Luke 15:1-32, presents God as the Lord of the prodigal son. He is the Merciful Father who is ever ready to forgive his children whenever they repent; the Merciful who celebrates the return of a prodigal child. He is the Merciful Father who is slow to anger and abounding in love. He is the Merciful Father who grants amnesty to His Sinful children. He is the Hope of the hopeless. To Him be glory and praise both now and forevermore – Amen!