The Organisation of African First Ladies for Development (OAFLAD) has emphasised the need to make blood available to every pregnant woman who needs it during childbirth. OAFLAD, which noted that about 800 women die daily during childbirth, 60 per cent of which are in sub-Saharan Africa, also pointed out that many of these death were as a result of blood loss during delivery. This was disclosed at an event held on the sidelines of 74th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), with the theme “The importance of blood for Africa’s mothers”, held on Wednesday 25th September 2019 at the Rockefeller Plaza, New York. The event, which was held in partnership with Terumo BCT, a blood processing and Pathogen Reduction Technologies Company, was organised to bring new understanding and heightened awareness around the importance of blood as a vital health care resource. The meeting reviewed present practices associated with access to blood, especially to women during delivery and observed gaps with safety and timely delivery. Members also noted the need to commit to advocating for concrete measures to ensure adequate, safe and sustainable blood for Africa’s mothers and children. Those in attendance include, First Ladies of Burkina Faso, Burundi, Rwanda, Ghana, Zimbabwe, Niger, Gambia and Chad. Nigeria’s First Lady, Aisha Buhari was represented by Dr. Hajo Sani, Senior Special Assistant to the President of Nigeria. In a related development, African First Ladies have launched a campaign tagged “Hands off our girls”, aimed at curbing early marriage and rape in the continent. The meeting, which was convened by the First Lady of Sierra Leone, Mrs. Fatima Maada Bio, had in attendance, Prof. Akinwumi Adesina of African Development Bank, Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus of World Health Organisation, Dereje Wordofa of UN Population Fund and Julius Maada Bio, the President of Sierra Leone. At the end of the event, a communiqué containing demands including the rights of women and girls to be equal partners in development, to be seen and heard, to economic empowerment, to universal health care and the right to justice, was issued.