Abuja – The Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) has declared its intention to resume protests over the alleged ordeal of its spiritual leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, in the hands of security agencies.
The IMN said on Sunday it would not be deterred or intimidated by the order recently given by the police for the arrest of its leaders.
Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, recently ordered the arrest of leaders of the proscribed IMN, also known as Shiites.
In the order, IGP Adamu directed a team of special police to immediately dismantle the structures of the IMN nationwide.
He blamed the violent protest by the group on July 22 for the killing of the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, Federal Capital Territory Police Command, Umar Usman, and a youth corps member, Precious Owolabi.
The IGP said a special investigation team set up to probe the murder had gone far in its investigations.
The signal reads in part: “You will also recall that given the odious activities of the movement, the Federal Government obtained an order proscribing the group.
“NIGPOL FORCID (Nigeria Police Force Criminal Investigation Department) directs you (to) ensure that identified leaders of the group and their structures are dismantled and their activities contained.
“You are to inform me of your action for discreet investigation and possible prosecution of violators of the proscription order. Treat as very important.”
The police had earlier arrested 54 Shiites after the July 22 violent clash between the force and the IMN members in Abuja.
The Federal Government had on July 30, 2019, proscribed the Islamic Movement in Nigeria following a July 26, 2019 court order which designated the activities of the Shiites organisation in any part of Nigeria “as acts of terrorism and illegality”.
Justice Nkeonye Maha of the Federal High Court in Abuja, in her ruling, directed the Federal Government to publish the order in its gazette and in two national dailies. This was subsequently done.
In the application for the proscription of the group, the Federal Government had accused it of carrying out coordinated violent protests in the country.
It alleged that the “aggressive activities” of members of the group had led to the loss of lives and destruction of private and public property in the Federal Capital Territory and other cities in northern Nigeria.
The Federal Government had claimed that El-Zakzaky’s sole objective was to turn Nigeria into an Islamic state, insisting that the cleric had the full support of Iran to achieve this aim.
The government made the claims in a counter-affidavit it filed against the IMN’s motion challenging the Federal High Court’s order of July 26, 2019 proscribing the group.
The counter-affidavit was deposed to by Enyinnaya Adiogu, a Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of operation in the Federal Capital Territory Command.
It stated that El-Zakzaky was influenced by the Iranian revolution, which led to the emergence of Ayatollah Khomeini as the Asian country’s leader in 1979 after Shah was overthrown in a popular uprising.
The government further claimed that the IMN members first pledged their allegiance to Khomeini at their gatherings, and then to their local leader, El-Zakzaky.
El-Zakzaky and his wife had recently been permitted to travel to India for medical care, but their treatment was aborted and they were repatriated to the country following the alleged refusal of the hospital to allow their preferred doctors treat them.
The religious leader in a video alleged he was given the option of having his treatment at the hospital or returning to Nigeria, saying that he was still discussing with his wife when unnamed officials returned to tell him to prepare for home.
Following the IMN leader’s return to the country, the Federal Government accused the sheikh of plotting to seek asylum in India and escape from Nigeria.
Spokesman of the Shiites, Musa Ibrahim, had said they would react to the police order on Sunday.
In a statement by Musa Ibrahim on Sunday, the IMN vowed not to bow or submit to tyranny and oppression by the Nigerian government.
The group said it would continue with the protest to demand the release of their leader, Sheikh El-Zakzaky, despite the police clampdown.
The movement said the order by the IGP was dead on arrival and could not stand.
According to the group, “We are the followers of Imam Husain (AS), the grandson of Prophet Muhammad (SAW). We will never bow and submit to tyranny, oppression and extrajudicial killings.”
The IMN noted that the Muhammadu Buhari led government had cultivated the habit of denying them space to conduct their religious activities at the commencement of the first month of the Islamic calendar (Muharram) when all Shiites were expected to converge.
Musa stated that the latest order by the police had confirmed that the government was hell bent on scuttling this year’s Muharram religious mourning obligations. He added that the order was handed down on the eve of the programme (Muharram).
Part of the statement reads: “It is on record that the Buhari administration, since its inception in 2015, has always used the commencement of the first month of the Islamic calendar, Muharram, to persecute, kill, and maim us and deny us any space to conduct all our religious rites expected of all Shiites.
“This recent order given on the eve of Muharram this year underlines the evil intention of the government to continue this pattern of attacks against Shia Islam and prevent us from conducting all our Muharram religious mourning obligations.”
The sect pointed out that the Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai had engaged the service of vigilante groups to descend on the group during Ashura mourning session in Kaduna.
The statement said the movement would not be deterred or intimidated by the suppression order, adding that the protest to demand for the release of its leader would go on.
“Members of the Islamic movement will most certainly remain steadfast and continue with all our religious programmes and activities of Ashura mourning as well as the peaceful struggle for the freedom of Sheikh Zakzaky and the hundred others still in detention since the infamous Zaria genocide of December 2015.
“We have since challenged the proscription order in court and should our rights and freedoms to worship be further infringed upon in any way, we will not hesitate to take all necessary legitimate measures to enforce our rights,” the statement added.