The recent Egyptian protests have attracted the attention of the Israeli decision-making circles, both media and political, although Israeli officials – political, military and security – have declined to officially comment on the events in an effort not to embarrass their ally in the Ittihadiya Palace. However, this does not mean that there isn’t close contact between Cairo and Tel Aviv around the clock. The Israeli circles unanimously agreed that thousands of Egyptians flocking to Tahrir Square in downtown Cairo has established a platform for a potential economic explosion in the face of President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi. Newspaper and social media headlines were dramatic, including the “Egyptian revolution is back”, “Mass protests sweep Tahrir Square” and “Thousands call for the overthrow of the Sisi regime”. Israelis wondered if the claims by Sisi supporters that there has only been a few scattered protests, were true, then why did it have so much impact on the regime’s supporters? Why did the Egyptian media outlets associated with Sisi mobilise to attack other media outlets, especially Qatar’s Al Jazeera? Regardless of whether the current number of demonstrators, are accurate or exaggerated, the Israeli circles confirmed that we are facing a new situation called breaking the barrier of fear amongst the Egyptians, who took to the streets to demonstrate. They called for the overthrow of the Sisi regime, accusing him and his men of corruption and building palaces at their expense, while millions of Egyptians have nothing to eat. While the Israeli media was not too concerned with the number of Egyptian demonstrators, it did confirm demonstrations were taking place in a number of Egyptian cities, such as the capital Cairo, Giza, Damietta, Mahalla and Mansoura, with the participation of hundreds and thousands of Egyptians. Israeli decision-making circles expressed, through their political pens and press analysis, their belief that they are facing a delicate situation in Egypt, given the calls accompanying the protests, which focused on overthrowing Sisi.