LAGOS – Ahead of the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday said it was worried over attempts by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to use federal might to gain undue advantage in the polls. Speaking exclusively with Daily Independent, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, said all eyes would be on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Prof. Mahmood Yakubu to ensure a free, fair, and credible election that would be acceptable to all. While urging INEC to be guided by democratic ethos in the discharge of her responsibilities, Ologbondiyan said the PDP was confident of winning the two states, given a free and fair exercise. “As a party, we are concerned about the use of federal might by the APC but we also believe that INEC, particularly the chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, has a responsibility to try to redeem what is left of his image and that of the commission by conducting an election that is free, fair, credible and generally acceptable to the people in Kogi and Bayelsa states. “We believe he has that responsibility ahead of him. We are optimistic on our part that victory is certain if there is a free, fair and credible exercise,” the PDP said. Earlier, in a statement, the party said that it had activated its grassroots structures in the two states ahead of the elections, while also adding that it was making efforts to reconcile aggrieved members following the primaries to select its candidates for the polls in both states. It gave assurance that its members and supporters had nothing to fear as the reconciliatory efforts were yielding immense results and further strengthening its structures and formation as one big, united and formidable family. The PDP said it would leave no stone unturned to ensure that all aggrieved members were appeased, stressing the importance of going into the polls as a family. It commended the understanding and the spirit of sportsmanship being exhibited by critical stakeholders in Bayelsa and Kogi, as well as their commitment towards the success of the party at the elections. “The PDP notes that it has already galvanised all segments of the voting population across the two states, which are known strongholds of the party, adding that no shenanigan by the violence-prone All Progressives Congress (APC) can stop its coast to victory in the elections,” the party added. In a related development, David Lyon, the governorship candidate of the APC in Bayelsa State, has said that he was confident that his party would triumph at the end of the exercise. Speaking in an interview, Lyon said having gone round the eight local government areas in the state, he had identified the problems faced by the electorate and was prepared to tackle them headlong if elected. “We came prepared and we have robust programmes of action. The problems of Bayelsa are legion, but I would say our condition currently is that of unacceptable disunity, and abject poverty. “I believe that most of our problems in Bayelsa are man-made and natural. I have gone round the length and breadth of the state due to the nature of my business. “I will assure you that each local government (area) has its own peculiar problem. I have had discussions with various people, community leaders, experts, market women, students and workers. I have been able to work out a programme that would alleviate the suffering of the people.”