LAGOS – Amidst news of sophistication of Boko Haram armoury and incessant killings of Nigeria’s security forces, Most Rev. Alfred Adewale Martins, Catholic Archbishop of the Metropolitan See of Lagos, has called on Federal Government to ensure that monies budgeted and supposedly expended on national security get to the right sources. This is coming on the heels of a recent report that in the past 10 years, N33 trillion had been spent on the country’s security apparatus, yet the equipment at the disposal of Nigeria’s Armed Forces is said to be outdated and in no way a match to the ones deployed by Boko Haram and ISWAP. Archbishop Martins who made the call during the 2019 Priestly Ordination Mass at St. Jude’s Catholic Church, Mafoluku, Oshodi, requested that prayers be offered for Nigeria and its leadership as it appears to an ordinary man that the security situation in the country has overwhelmed both the security personnel and even the government. “We all have heard how much the Boko Haram and ISWAP are creating terror even for our Armed Forces, stealing their food, stealing their salaries and stealing their ammunition. It shows the bad situation in which we are. So, let us pray for our nation, Nigeria. We also challenge our government that the monies voted for buying arms and ammunition go to the right source so that our soldiers are not sacrificed like chickens. “Reports have it that about N33 trillion has been voted in 10 years and yet we have old equipment when the Boko Haram are using night goggles and sophisticated equipment to locate where our soldiers are, we are using outdated arms that were bought during the days of Shehu Shagari and the days of Goodluck Jonathan and some bought during this time as well,” he said. Archbishop Martins explained that it is a lot of problems for the country’s Armed Forces and that the reason many of them get killed is because they do not have the right backing. He therefore appealed to the Federal Government to do more than they had been doing to ensure that the morale of the military troops are boosted by equipping them with latest gadgets with which to fight against Boko Haram. The Archbishop also reminded Priests and the Religions of the communiqué issued at the end of the recently concluded second plenary of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) in Abeokuta on their call to service.