Kaduna  – Amidst sweeping developments in the presidency recently that have stirred political permutations ahead of 2023, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) claimed on Sunday that it was not aware of any zoning arrangement for the office of the president. Anthony Sani, Secretary General of the ACF, told Daily Independent that he was not aware of any national consensus on rotation of the presidency that was binding on political parties which, he said, had exclusive right to present candidates for elections. Sani argued that if there was a national consensus to that effect, President Muhammadu Buhari would not have contested with Olusegun Obasanjo in 2003 and 2007, and that Goodluck Jonathan would not have contested with Buhari in 2011 and 2015. Sani’s statement appears to align with views expressed by prominent political figures from the North recently, among them former speaker of the House of Representatives, Ghali Umar Na’Abba, who has said that Nigeria needs a competent president in 2023 irrespective of their region of origin. Similarly, Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State argued last month at a public event that zoning of candidates for political offices should be dropped in favour of competence. According to El-Rufai, “Even with our success in the 2015 elections, there is room for improvement. Barriers to political equality, such as our seemingly entrenched, though informal, rule for zoning candidacies according to regions of origin needs to be de-emphasised and ultimately abandoned in favour of an emphasis on qualification, competence, and character.” The anti-zoning views have generated controversies among pro-zoning groups, especially from the South which are looking forward to taking over the presidential baton from the North in 2023. Regardless, Sani told Daily Independent that zoning or rotation of presidency had never been practised. “As I mentioned in the interview, of the 76 presidential candidates in 2019, about 70 of them were Southerners. “So, where are people getting this idea of the existence of national consensus on rotation of presidency that is binding on political parties? Sani queried. Commenting on the recent stripping of some duties from the vice president, the ACF scribe said the post of the VP did not have constitutional roles assigned to it but that it performed delegated functions at the behest of the president. “So if the president has deemed it fit to reassign some previous responsibilities, there should be no qualms. This is because the president may wake up tomorrow and assign more responsibilities to his side kick.” Speaking on the recent adoption of a RUGA plan by the Northern governors, Sani said the meeting of Northern states’ governors adopted the National Integrated Livestock Programmes and not RUGA.