LAGOS – The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged Abukabar Malami, the Attorney General of the Federation, to use his office to persuade President Muhammadu Buhari to effectively enforce the judgment by Justice Chuka Austine Obiozor ordering the immediate release of details of payments to all defaulting and allegedly corrupt electricity contractors and companies since 1999. Justice Obiozor, sitting at the Federal High Court, Lagos, had in July delivered a judgment in a Freedom of Information suit number FHC/L/CS/105/19 brought by SERAP, ordering the Federal Government to disclose and publish the names of companies and the whereabouts of the contractors paid by successive governments to carry out electricity projects but disappeared with the money without executing any projects. SERAP, in an open letter dated September 13, 2019, and signed by its deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare, noted that the enforcement of the judgment would be a special moment for the government’s anti-corruption agenda and the sovereignty of rule of law, as it would go a long way in protecting the integrity of our legal system. The organisation urged Malami to make best efforts to advise and persuade President Buhari and Sale Mamman, the Minister of Power, to begin to take steps that would ensure the full enforcement of this ground-breaking judgment. SERAP said: “Advising and persuading Mr. Buhari and Mr. Mamman to enforce the judgment against corrupt contractors and companies would show your commitment to the rule of law, and contribute to addressing the culture and legacy of corruption in the power sector. “It will show that you are not just Mr. Buhari’s lawyer but also a defender of the Nigerian Constitution of 1999 (as amended), the rule of law and public interest within the government, something which Justice Obiozor’s judgment seeks to serve. “It is emphatically the province and constitutional duty of the Attorney General to advise on the enforcement of judicial decisions. It is important to do so here if power sector contractors and companies are not to continue to evade justice for their alleged corruption.” “Taking action as recommended would amount to keeping with Nigerians’ expectations, and entirely consistent with Buhari’s oft-expressed commitment to ‘kill’ corruption–whether by public officials or private contractors—and help to build citizens’ trust and confidence in the ability of this government to take head-on the systemic corruption in the power sector.”