Dr George Moghalu, National Auditor of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) spoke on developments in the party, threats by members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and other issues. Excerpts: What is your take on the traveling embargo IPOB placed on Igbo political leaders? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network What embargo are you talking about? Such thing, if there is any, sounds very unreasonable. Based on what authority and wisdom would they place such embargo? What have the Igbo political leaders done individually or collectively to warrant such unreasonable embargo?. For me, it does not add up and if they are placing such embargo based on the assumption that they did not fight Igbo course, I will ask them what Igbo course they are talking about. I don’t see any course the Igbo political leaders are supposed to fight for that they are not fighting. Did they ask the best approach to fight a course in a democracy other than by argument, negotiation, consultation, convincing people and lobbying. I want to be told how they expected us to fight that we are not fighting otherwise, I would tell them that I don’t understand what they are talking about. If they expect us to do what Ayo Fayose did in Ekiti as governor, giving the herdsmen ultimatum, I will tell them that it is not reasonable. The most important thing is that we are in a democracy where every decision is by consultation and convincing people because it is a matter of number. We agreed to do it by consensus before we entered into democratic process. Whatever we want to do must be a function of number. We must convince people to see it from our prism. What we need to do as people is to continue negotiating and expanding our horizon. We must reach out to as many people as possible so that we can fight our collective interest. We must unify ourselves, pursue a singular agenda and be honest about it. These are the realities I think we should be talking about. Did the attack on Ike Ekweremadu give you any concern? Of course it gave me serious concern and I was not happy about it. It is not right to any right thinking person, no matter the way one wants to look at it. The action is condemnable and it is not the right way to go. Okay, let us assume that the way to go now is to beat and tear the dresses of Igbo political leaders abroad, what will it change, how will it better our lots as a people and how will it improve our condition as a people? For me, the way to go is to bring our leaders to question and get them to account by rejecting them at the polls. If they claim that the leaders have not done a lot, what specifics do they want from them? It is true that I may not be holding any elective or appointive position today to make impact, but the point remains that there is little or nothing those occupying the positions could do. The option left for us is to get members of the State Houses of Assemblies to pass laws that are of peoples’ interest and get the executives to implement them. We have to organise ourselves into pressure groups to present common interest agenda to the federal government. We have to negotiate with other political interests and blocks as the way to go in a democracy not members of IPOB beating up Igbo political leaders abroad. If they think that the political leaders are not doing it well, they should teach them how to do it and encourage them. I am always on the people’s side as a matter of personal principle, but the fact remains that I should be in a position to make reasonable contributions, talk and convince somebody to see it from my own perspective and from the perspective of my people. Are you among the Igbo leaders uncomfortable with traveling outside the country as fallout of Ekweremadu’s attack? Why should I feel uncomfortable or afraid of travelling outside the country? It is also wrong to think that if they could attack a PDP member, it may be worse for some of us in the APC. Like the Igbos will say, it is person carrying a load who should be afraid that it may break. I have nothing to be worried about. It is wrong to look at it from the prism of political party. Are you satisfied with the way South East governors and stakeholders have handled Ruga policy of the federal government? It goes beyond the way they have handled the policy. The governors who are the chief executives of various states know that Ruga is not compulsory. The choice of having Ruga is optional and government has come clear on that matter. Those who want it should go for it and get it. It is for the chief executives of our various states to liaise with the State Assemblies and those we elected to represent us to look at our interest. If we think that it is okay with us, we can pass it and go for it, otherwise, we stop it. It is optional not compulsory that we must do it. What do you say about the feelings among the Igbos that President Buhari did not assign juicy ministries to South East Ministers? What is incontrovertible is that Mr President gave ministerial slot to every state in the South East and even appointed two from Anambra. But I have always argued and disagreed with people on this issue of juicy political appointment. There is nothing like juicy ministry as far as I am concerned because all the ministries take the memoranda to the Federal Executive Council. There is no senior minister at council level. I am satisfied with the portfolios Mr President gave to the Ministers from the South East. The highest ministerial position in America, with the model we are copying today, is the Secretary of State. We have Minister of Foreign Affairs from the South East yet we are still complaining. What is unimportant about Minister of Science and Technology in a country thinking about tomorrow. We have Labour and Employment, Minister of State for Education and another for Environment. We have challenges of erosion left, right and centre and we have been given a Minister to look after it, yet we are complaining. Since it is not for anybody’s personal pocket, I don’t see anything juicy about the ministries. Did the reapportionment of some former ministers come to you as a surprise? Why should it surprise me when the president knows what he wants? These are people he has worked with, so it is about who he wants to work with not about what I think about them. The decision did not surprise me at all. Were you nominated and if yes, at what point was your name removed from the ministerial list? To God be the glory. We should know that appointment of ministers is the prerogative of Mr President and he determines who he wants to give at any given time. Yes, people may speculate, but if I am not appointed, to God be the glory because it is not yet the appointed time. Why should I ask what happened that I did not make the list at last when it is not my father’s job. Anybody who claims that I should be feeling hurt don’t know me very well. In fact, Mr President did not promise me ministerial slot only to disappoint me later. I don’t understand what you mean by saying that I was among those that settled the presidency cabal but was disappointed, I am just hearing about such settlement from you. In any case, this speculation about presidency cabal has to stop because it is not good for the system. As for me, I can make contribution in a democratic government without being a minister. There are many ways to serve fatherland and it must not be ministers that are only 43 persons out of a population of close to 200 million people. People can serve at various levels and they must not be ministers before they contribute. Sincerely speaking, I am very happy with the president that he found Anambra state worthy to produce two ministers. I am very grateful and I am sure that is the feeling of every Anambrarian. Apart from the statutory ministerial appointments, do you expect more political appointments to the South East from the president? Very sure and why not? However, I am not making any appeal to the president because I don’t believe that he is not carrying the South East along in terms of appointments. However, besides political appointments, I expect the president to complete the ongoing road projects in the zone. The second Niger Bridge, the repair works on the Enugu-Onitsha expressway, Enugu-Port Harcourt road, the Aba-Ikot Ekpene and Umuahia-Uyo roads. I expect that the projects that have to do with the South East in the current budget should be accommodated and executed. What is your take on Mr President coming under attack after the pronouncement that the ministers must channel every communication to him through his Chief of Staff? The attack on Mr President for that pronouncement is very unfair. I am being honest in saying that it is really unfair. Why did he appoint a Chief of Staff in the first place? By the nomenclature, his responsibility is enormous because somebody has to prepare Mr President’s schedule, look at his programme and coordinate his activities. I don’t see anything in the president directing the ministers to pass through this same person. It is the same way they do it in America, the country we are copying our democracy from. It is wrong to assume that the president ceded his responsibility with that directive. We are talking of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria who has 43 ministers to deal with. It is not also true that the directive clashed with the responsibility of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation.