Elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, has called on the Federal Government to do more to revamp the agriculture sector and the economy. Clark, in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja, said it had become necessary for the country to explore all available means to reposition the agriculture sector to cushion the shortfalls from oil revenue in the near future. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He urged government to look for workable strategies to achieve the desired result since measures being deployed over the years to return the sector to its enviable position had not yielded much result. He also stressed that the country’s projected population explosion and the recently signed Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (ACFTA), were issues that Nigeria should not take lightly. “One of my greatest fears for Nigeria is the signing of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement. “How do we intend to compete favourably with other African countries when most of our industries are not revived? We will simply become a dump for their commodities. “If a country like Malaysia and other countries, which were behind Nigeria in terms of export in the 60s, were able to fix their economies largely through proceeds from agriculture, then there is something Nigeria is not doing right to have lost that position. “More measures need to be put in place if the agriculture sector is to be revamped; if it is to truly contribute the required revenue to national development.’’ Clark commended the Federal Government for making the sector a major focus in its diversification bid and for the measures taken so far. These include partial closure of the borders to check rice smuggling, stoppage of foreign exchange on food items and provision of interventions to farmers and other stakeholders. He also noted that poor infrastructure was a major bane of agriculture in the country. He said that poor transportation system, poor electricity supply, obsolete farming procedures due to lack of access by small holder farmers to mechanised farming tools and lack of access to credit facilities were major impediments to improved agriculture in the country. “Agriculture, which was Nigeria’s mainstay and highest contributor to the country’s GDP, lost its glory the moment oil was discovered. “When oil was discovered, attention shifted from agriculture and Nigeria started losing its enviable position in terms of export to other countries and today we are almost nowhere in the commodity market. “If, with very poor technological facilities, every part of the country was contributing meaningfully to the country’s GDP through agriculture in the 60s, what is stopping us with all the available technologies today from being a major player globally? “I remember then, we had the groundnut pyramid in the North, cocoa in the West and palm oil in the East but today where are they? “This is not to say these commodities can no longer be produced for export because our lands are still arable, but because oil has made us lazy. “State governors, rather than leveraging on their agricultural might to improve their Internally Generated Revenue (AGR), would prefer to come to Abuja for their monthly allocations.’’ The elder statesman also said: “It is unfortunate that the few states that are trying to explore this sector are not getting maximum results. “We heard Lagos is partnering with Kebbi to produce rice; but how much of it do we have in the market and how affordable is it? “Reviving the sector does not end with signing policy documents but providing the enabling environment for farmers, processors and other stakeholders to thrive. “I remember growing up then. We did not need firewood to roast fish; we simply used fish to roast fish because of its abundance. “But all that is gone today because nothing was done to protect our ecosystem when oil was discovered and today our waters have become poisonous to their natural habitats due to exploration activities.” On the Xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa, Clark said Nigeria did not deserve such treatment in view of the country’s contribution to the country’s freedom from Apartheid. While condemning reprisal attacks on South African businesses in Nigeria, he called for political will on the side of the South African Government to end the menace. He also called on the Nigerian Government to explore diplomatic options for a lasting solution to the perennial attacks on Nigerians, especially by South Africans.