LAGOS – As the ongoing recapitalisation in the insurance industry is gaining momentum, the initial report by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has indicated that nine insurance may go off the market due to their inability to meet certain conditions spell out in the recapitalisation guidelines. Some of these conditions are that they have not been able to build their plans through the developing stages of the exercise.
According to NAICOM, in a circular titled, “Update on Recapitalisation of Insurers and Reinsurers,” four companies do not have the requisite 2018 financial statements and are thus, advised to review their plans of using Initial Public Offer (IPO) as a channel for fund raising exercise.
Also stated in the circular was that “one company has litigation issues and has been advised to resolve them as soon as possible to enable its progress; the review of submission from two companies was said to be ongoing while three companies are yet to submit their recapitalisation plans.
Analysts are of the view that where nine companies at this stage into the exercise could not raise the bar in their recapitalisation voyage the tendency is that they are already falling out of the way.
The NAICOM’s report, however, stated that 26 companies have been granted “No Objection” to proceed with their plans; while “17 companies were corrected and have been advised to resubmit their new plans using paid-up capital and not shareholders fund.”
One company’s submission was noted to have met the necessary requirements.
In keeping with the recapitalisation roadmap, the Commission said it has concluded review of the submissions and have communicated individual companies on their positions, adding that the agency is resolved to adhere to the recapitalisation roadmap towards achieving its desired objectives in the best interest of all stakeholders.
Recall that the National Insurance Commission, on the 20th of May this year, had announced a new recapitalisation regime for insurance and reinsurance companies.
According to the circular, they are to recapitalise on or before 30th of June 2020. Few months after the announcement, the Commission issued another circular prompting the companies to submit their recapitalization roadmap on or before August 20, while it said that the Commission, from September 17, 2019, would begin to engage companies on their status.
The May 20th circular directed reinsurers to capitalize to the tune of N20billion from N10billion. Composite Insurers (operators of life and non-life) from N5billion to N18billion while Life and Non-life companies should recapitalised to N8billion from N2billion and N10billion from N3billion respectively.