Abeokuta – The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), has alleged that the Ekiti State Government is inducing its members with money to drop the case of killings of two students of Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE). Two students of the University lost their lives following a riot involving the students of the school and the security personnel attached to the wife of Ekiti Governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi. The Association in a press statement signed by the National Public Relations Officer, Adeyemi Azeez, alleged that the government bribed the leadership of the union in the state to exonerate the wife of the Governor. Adeyemi further alleged that had also lobbied him with cash in order to end the struggle of unravelling the reasons behind the killings of the students. He further alleged that several meetings have been organised by different government functionaries at different locations but rejected. The statement read, “Our attention has been drawn to a paid-for-report from three of our prodigal sons in the association, Ogunleye Abiola Johnson, Ojo Pius Oluwaseun and Owaraye Damilola who are Chairman, secretary and PRO of Ekiti NAN/JCC respectively. “We are not perturbed when we saw the publication in the media but we would not keep quiet about the events that took place behind closed doors and how money exchanged hands between the Ekiti government and NANS executive at the state level. “Immediately the first deceased gave up the ghost, the State NANS chairman was called but said he has no transportation fee of N250 to get to Oye Ekiti. “Immediately, the NANS state Chairman who claimed not to have transport fare to salvage the situation on the day of the incidence, received a call from the government, he immediately bounced to the government house from where he was redirected to the Governor’s Office where he collected the ‘blood money’ for which he addressed the press. “We have both voice and Chart pieces of evidence of how the Ekiti state government have lobbied NANS NATIONAL through some aides and friends of the assailant, to come and collect money to end our struggle of unravelling the real reason for the killing of our students. “My number was given to different government functionaries to lure me down to Ekiti but after my vehement refusal, his foot soldiers besiege me that the meeting point can be changed to any place of my choice, if I would not want to come to Ekiti but all their pressure was to no avail as I will not give in to such satanic conspiracy for any price or prize.”