Xavier Ndah, Titilope Joseph Lagos – Justice I.N. Oweibo of a Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos on Tuesday ordered the final forfeiture to the Federal Government properties valued at $40 million and said to belong to Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke, a former Petroleum Minister. The properties are said to include over 419 bangles, 315 rings, 304 earrings, 189 wristwatches, 267 necklaces, and a customised gold iPhone.
The trial judge had on July 5 granted an interim forfeiture of the said property following an ex parte application filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
Justice Oweibo had also directed interested parties to show cause why the properties should not be forfeited to the Federal Government.
However, Nnamdi Awa-Kalu, counsel to the respondent, Alison-Madueke, had filed a motion on notice seeking the setting aside of the order of the court granting interim forfeiture.
Awa-Kalu told the court that the application, which was supported by an 11 paragraphs affidavit was pursuant to sections 43 and 44 of the 1999 constitution and section 17 of the Advance Fee Fraud and 83 and 84 of the EFCC Acts.
He urged the court to dismiss EFCC’s application for final forfeiture and discharge the interim order placed on his client’s properties.
Awa-Kalu, in the application, also argued that his client was a successful businesswoman in the oil and gas sector, who had acquired the property through legitimate means, as well as through gifts.
Awa-Kalu also raised a preliminary objection challenging the jurisdiction of the court to entertain EFCC’s application.
Responding, Oyedepo, counsel to the EFCC, argued that the court is vested and empowered by section 17 and 14 of Advance Fee Fraud to hear and determine a case of this nature.
He added that the objection raised by Diezani’s was not an issue, as a case of its kind had been settled in an Appeal Court decision in a case between the Federal Republic of Nigeria against Patience Jonathan and LA Warri Furniture Limited and some other such cases.
He maintained that the properties were reasonably suspected to be proceeds of crime, as the respondent had failed to show how they were acquired.
“It is an unlawful activity for a public officer to receive gifts as a result of what was done or not done,” Oyedepo further submitted.
He, therefore, urged the court to discountenance the respondent’s application and order the forfeiture of the said properties to the Federal Government.
In his ruling, Justice Oweibo held that the issues raised by the anti-graft agency were more apt and that “it is only logical that the court dismisses the respondent’s application.”
Citing several judicial authorities, Oweibo held that instead of the respondent (Mrs. Allison-Madueke) showing cause why the properties should not be finally forfeited, she only filed a motion to set aside the interim order.
“The deponent in the affidavit of the motion is not the owner of the properties sought to be forfeited and the deponent did not state in the affidavit where he got the information from,” he said.
“On the whole and in view of the fact that the respondent failed to show cause why the properties should not be finally forfeited, the order of final forfeiture is hereby granted. The properties are hereby finally forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria,” the court ruled.