LAGOS – The Coronation Research, an arm of Coronation Merchant Bank, at the weekend disclosed that the ongoing insurance industry re-capitalisation programme will reduce numbers of insurance companies to about 25 from the current 59 at the end of the exercise by June 30 2020.
This disclosure was contained in a report entitled; ‘From The Lagoon To Blue Ocean’ made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT at the bank’s headquarters in Lagos on Friday, September 06, 2019.
The report added that merger and acquisitions (M&A) would form a major part of the consolidation by which about 25 companies would emerge to remain in the business.
Citing the experience of the banking industry recapitalisation in 2004, the report noted that the companies that will emerge at the end of the exercise would be strong firms with adequate capital to play big at the marketplace.
“We believe these will reduce the current 59 companies to around 25. There are close parallels with the banking reform of 2004. The banking industry grew rapidly after that, so the question is how the insurance industry can grow after 2020. In the meantime, there will be capital raising and M&A”, the report noted.
Coronation Research added that beyond increased capital, the industry needs a strategic approach to achieve its growth potentiality, adding that some form of radical reform approach, cooperation between regulators as well as distribution partnerships with banks and telecom companies should be adopted to change the game. “To position the sector for radical growth, one must consider the lessons learned in Asian markets, and also in West Africa which shows how insurance can be rolled out to tens of millions of customers. Cooperation between regulators is critical, as are distribution partnerships with banks and telecom companies. Fresh capital is necessary for development, but a fresh strategic approach is required to reach the industry’s potential.” Guy Czartoryski; Head, Coronation Research said.
Czartoryski decried low insurance penetration in Nigeria which, according to him, stands at 0.31per cent compared to India with similar GDP per capita.
He, however, asserted that insurance can achieve India’s experience and grow its penetration by 3.69per cent within a period of eight to 10years if the right condition is in place.
“Nigeria’s insurance sector presents perhaps the most remarkable investment case of any industry in Nigeria. At one level the business case is very simple. Insurance penetration, at 0.31per cent, is extremely low, even compared with countries with similar GDP per capita, for example India with insurance penetration at 3.69per cent. Experience in other countries shows that, in the right conditions, insurance can be rolled out to India’s level in eight to 10 years. So, Nigeria could go from 0.31per cent penetration to 3.69per cent penetration in 10 years”, said Czartoryski.
He contended that insurance industry’s synergy with other government agencies, effective implementation of the micro-insurance policy, adoption of technology as well as market education are also the imperatives in ensuring a developed sector.
“Not only does the sector need insurance regulators, but bank and telecom regulators too need to cooperate: there are gains for all. Second, the roll-out of micro-insurance with the development aim of financial inclusion is key to familiarising and educating the market. Third, technology plays a key role in partnerships and distribution”, said the research expert.
The report, however, concluded that as with banks after 2004 reform, there exists the opportunity for a re-capitalised insurance industry to make enormous gains from 2020 onwards, not only in terms of expanded underwriting capacity but also by attracting millions of new accounts, while the low insurance penetration at 0.31percent suggests significant un-tapped potential.
Coronation Merchant Bank was established to fill the gap in a long-underserved market segment, seeking to address the need for long term capital across key sectors of the economy. The Group offers investment and corporate banking, private banking/wealth management and global markets/treasury services to its diverse clients.