Police detectives attached to the Ogun State Police Command on Monday arrested three self-acclaimed Islamic clerics who specialises in allegedly swindling  unsuspecting members of the public of their hard earned money as well as having unlawful carnal knowledge of their female victims. Deputy Superintendent of Police, DSP, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who is the Police Public Relations Officer, of the command said the suspects Aliu Abdulfatai,50,Sule Adebayo,36,and Lekan Olokodana,31 years old were arrested following a report by one of their female victims (Name withheld). He said the victim had reported at Adigbe police station that she was duped of the sum of N70,000 by the suspects, while one of them also forcefully had carnal knowledge of her against her wish. Oyeyemi said ,the complainant who is a marketer with a popular property/Real estate company was said to be on marketing assignment when she came across the suspects who claimed to be Islamic clerics and indicated interest in purchasing large expanse of land which they claimed they want to use for construction of their mosque. It was gathered that there and then, they introduced the issue of special prayer to their victim from where they arrived at seeing a vision that the victim is under a spell which needs special deliverance prayer to cast out. Oyeyemi said: “As a result of this, they succeeded in fraudulently obtaining the sum of N70,000 from her after they lured her into their house where one of them forcefully raped her. “On the strength of her complain, the DPO Adigbe division CSP Augustine Opadile detailed his detectives to go after the hoodlums and bring them to justice. “Their efforts paid off when three amongst them were apprehended while waiting for the victim to bring more money they demanded but one of them was smart to have escaped.” “On interrogation, they confessed being fraudsters and confessed that it has been their means of livelihood. It was also revealed that one of them has used the proceed of their fraudulent act to build a private school in Ikorodu, Lagos State.” Oyeyemi explained. Meanwhile, the image maker said that the Commissioner of Police, CP Bashir Makama has ordered for a full scale investigation into the activities of these hoodlums with the view to bringing them to justice.