Chief Sam Odighi Udinyiwe Igbe, Iyase of Benin Kingdom, who is celebrating 90 years birthday anniversary, reaches deep into history to analyse Nigerian cultural, social and political issues from the experience of a retired Commissioner of Police and the Leader of the Benin Chiefs in the Oba’s palace in this interview with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO. Excerpts: What is the secret behind your agility at 90? I think it is nature, I have seen people who have better facilities than I have yet they get a bit old. I was a sportsman when I was young and I still like walking around the house, I have kept up being active. Since I retired from work generally not when I retired from the police, I only go out between 11am and 5pm; 11am because when I entered the palace that was when we have our meetings in the palace so I got used to that. I don’t think anybody is better than me and also I don’t think I am better than anyone so I am what I am by the grace of God. As the Iyase of Benin Kingdom, what is your duty? There is really nothing special, the Iyase is a leader, he is the leader of the Oba’s chiefs and the leader of the people. In the good old days, he was the head of the army, so he is the head of the people, he is the link between the people and the palace. What I have discovered is that I don’t think the people hate me, I don’t think so but a lot of things worry me and one of them is that the youths of this place seem to think they are a choice type, I don’t know whether they think they are better than other people. You sat at the waiting room there for a while, so, you should know whether those people, I mean the domestic workers are from Benin, none. One is from the north, one is from the east, Akwa-Ibom, I will say I was rather forced to take these ones because I could not get Benin boys, they will not work, they say, “usee ghase urhe, owuye ughughoen“, that is “when the snail suffers he suffers within its shell”. So you will not get a Benin young man as a houseboy or a house help. Go through Benin you will not get one and I start wondering what are they doing in Libya, why would they go there if you cannot serve at home why would they go there? I sit down and think, why would our girls go to Italy to do that but why is it that all those things that made Benin great in the good old days why is it that they are all getting lost; our culture, our real valued systems of life?. Why is it that we are forgetting all our cultural goods, our good behaviours and things like that, why? And that is my real problem, now I find a group of people visiting me and I ask ‘why is this happening? Are you in line with those suggesting State Policing as the only antidote to the present security situation? I am not saying the only antidote, we are talking about policy when you talk about security because police also help to sanitise misbehaviors if the police is doing its real job and the only way police can do its real job is when they are used properly. I do not think when you post a Benin man to some divisions in Nasarawa State, it will help the policing there because he does not know what is happening there, he does not know the language, he does not know the terrain, he does not know the culture. You see, to run a police force, you must understand your men, your men must understand you, you must understand the people you are policing, the people must understand you and when you police some of your place, the community which you know very well then you are able to understand the culture of the people, if you stay there you will know the good and the bad people and you will know the people who can help from time to time that is the ABC of investigation. We cannot have a police force that officers do not know anywhere; they do not know anybody, so they are working in their offices. You bring somebody from somewhere else he does not know what is happening here all they are thinking of is how much they can gather and take home. Are you comfortable with the present happening in the state political arena especially as it affects the state house of assembly? Well are you comfortable with it? If you are not, so I cannot be. The type of politics we play in this country I cannot be part of it. Well, I am too old to go lining to vote now, when I was much younger, I don’t vote for people I do not know or I do not think will do any good, that is my policy right from the word go. Then these people who they buy to vote for them and who buy people to vote for them they are not my cup of tea. About the so called problem between the former governor and the present one, it is unfortunate because the present one is his product, I remember when they were picking who to vote for during his time, I remember someone visited me to say he heard that I was supporting someone else not any of the ones he has chosen and I said ‘yes that is true’. He said I should not do that I should vote for the person he chose I said ‘no you have your views. I said nobody detracts from your right but when you use government resources to push in your own mind then you are being unfair to the others who do not have such resources and I said I am not saying you are not right though. He said, yes that is good, I like the way you are putting it, I am an insider, I know who will do this thing well among these people so if I am going to leave this place I am going to leave it to somebody capable enough to do it, he talked and talked and talked and I agreed with him. What are the chiefs doing to ensure that the spillover of the crisis does not cause some security problems within the state capital and the suburb? As chiefs I don’t know what we can do, I think I will not be seen without the Oba making a political statement on the state. I think the Oba is already aware and I think he has tried to see them and speak to them, if they are not doing what he advised them to do, then that will be very unfortunate. What is your advice to the government and the people? To start with, you have a reason for your being put in a place to work, try and ensure that what you promised to do when they put you there you do it and let the people know that you are doing it and do not convert public money to yourself. In the police, we want a police force that is community based and it has to be state police. The people in Benin, the people in Rivers they do not know the IGP, they see him television and read about him in Newspapers, so we want a police for them, anywhere there is democracy, anywhere there are regions in the world, any country with regions and so on; the regions have their own governments whether the governments are dependent on the centre or not they have their own police forces.