Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of BudgIT, a budget watchdog, Oluseun Onigbinde, has been appointed into the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. He is now a Technical Adviser (Budget and Planning) under the Federal Ministry of Budget and National Planning. Onigbinde is known to have been vocal in his criticism of Buhari’s administration. In 2014, Onigbinde made the list of finalists for the Young Business Leader of the Year Award of CNBC Africa. Others who made the list included Seth Akumani (Ghana) and Christian Ngan (Cameroon). Onigbinde is a fiscal transparency advocate and firm believer in the power of Open Data. In 2012, he was awarded the Future Awards Prize for Science and Tech Innovation. He is a native of Masifa, Ogbomoso, Oyo State. He was born in Osogbo, Osun State, on September 18, 1985. He was raised a Baptist in Ibadan and also attended Christ Apostolic Church, Agbala Itura. He had his primary and secondary school education in Ibadan, and the prestigious Loyola College, Ibadan where he excelled in the sciences. He scored nine distinctions in his West African Examinations Council’s exam, earning the best result of the school’s 2001 set. Onigbinde attended the University of Agriculture, Abeokuta where he obtained a Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) in Electrical/Electronics Engineering and the Stanford university graduate school of business where he completed the executive program in social entrepreneurship. During his NYSC, he was posted to Benin City where he got a job at Access Bank. He later joined First Bank for a period of three and half years. It was while he was working at First Bank that he got the idea for BudgIT. According to him, his interest in banking was from the strategy angle, a space where he could contribute his ideas. Onigbinde is a recipient of several awards and he is currently an Obama Foundation Scholar at Columbia University. He is a board member of the ONE Africa Policy Advisory Board. In 2011, Onigbinde and Joseph Agunbiade formed a team during a hackathon held at the Co-Creation Hub. It was here that he came up with the idea for a need to publicize government spending to the general public, leading to the startup BudgIT. In 2014, the Omidyar Network invested $400,000 in BudgIT; this has always been listed on their website. In June 2015, the Kaduna State government under the administration of Mallam El-Rufai, signed BudgIT to build Open Budget mobile portal similar to the Buharimeter; a platform which was built by BudgIT for Center for Democracy and Development to hold President Buhari accountable for his campaign promises. In January 2017, BudgIT raised an additional $3 million grant from Omidyar Network and Gates Foundation.  In February 2016, Oluseun Onigbinde was honoured to make a presentation at the Chatham House under the African Project on issue of accountability and governance. Onigbinde has always been a big believer in data-driven journalism and participated in a health journalism project as part of the Knight Innovation Fellowship of the International Center for Journalists. In 2014, BudgIT launched Tracka, a project tracking tool. Tracka monitors public projects in over 600 communities in Nigeria. His organisation also founded Civic Hive, Nigeria’s civic innovation hub, that incubates solely civic tech start-ups.