Dr. Sunday Abuh Omogani, a medical practitioner turned politician, is the governorship candidate of the United People Congress (UPC) in the November 16 election in Kogi State. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he unfolds his vision and agenda for the people of the state. Excerpts: Why did you chose to contest under the United Peoples Congress (UPC) instead of the bigger and stronger parties like All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)? The UPC may be small, but it has been in existence. But, we wanted to have a free playing field in the state.  The two big parties you mentioned have people that have money. While money may be a determining factor, you cannot have people that are credible in those parties. Honest aspirants do not have a chance in these parties. That is why I chose to contest under a smaller party, where there is a free playing field for all, which appreciates honest people as its candidates are honest. What is your vision for Kogi people? My vision for Kogi people is a new Kogi State where there is development and the people will be self-sufficient. I want a Kogi where there will be amenities. We want the people in Kogi to be healthy. When there are healthy citizens, there are basic amenities that work, including drinking water, the people will be happy. We do not have all these in Kogi presently. There is no water. There are no good roads, no schools. We are not coming out with big projects, but to tackle these basic problems in the state, including placing emphasis on agriculture. We will take Kogi to a level where there will be standard healthcare. Kogi is one of the worst hit on the issue of healthcare, with nothing happening in the health sector. These are some of the things I want for Kogi, hence my dream to be the governor come November 16 election. Don’t you feel intimidated by the candidates of the APC and PDP who may be more experienced and have more financial power than you? We are not bothered. What are their achievements for Kogi people? I wish all the candidates will hold a public debate so that they will tell Kogi people what they have done. There are no good schools, no roads. The civil service has been killed. There are no salaries. When we talk about agriculture, what have they done in Kogi in this regard? The rulers who had been from these major parties have not touched any of these things since they have been in power. Even when the PDP was in power for about 12 years, what did they do? Before, these things were functioning and the people were happier. Why did the infrastructures collapse? I did a study on the health situation in Kogi State. I put the hospitals in Kogi side by side with those in Singapore. It was too glaring that since the big parties, APC and PDP, have been in control of Kogi State, they cannot do anything for the people. The only things they have to offer to Kogi people are poverty and misery. What areas of the state do you think would witness a turnaround if you become the governor of Kogi State? I will seek experts. If we get experts who know how to do things in one area, they will also have ideas on how to do well in other sectors. I will look for experts to fix things in all the sectors. When you engage experts in all the areas and give them the free hand to operate and work, there is no reason why they will not perform. One of the problems that Kogi State has been grappling with is the issue of herdsmen and crop farmers’ clashes. How would you handle this issue if you come into power as the state governor? We are going to use diplomacy to tackle this issue. We will discuss with these people and see how the killings could be stopped. We will also do it in collaboration with the security agencies. What matters is the desire and political will to tackle this problem squarely. Bearing in mind the rate of unemployment, what is your agenda for the youths to ensure that they are empowered? One of the problems that have befallen Kogi State is that we have ignored the youths. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) administrations in Kogi State took away opportunities meant for the youths instead of creating new ones. The two parties have no plans for the youths. That is why youth unemployment has persisted in the state. But to empower the youths, you must start from education. The youths have to be made to understand that they have to go to school so that they can equip themselves. When I was growing up, someone offered me scholarship to read medicine and I picked up from there. Unfortunately, instead of empowering the youths of Kogi State through education, the PDP and APC administrations in the state thought them thuggery. If I enter into government, we will depart from that. The Kogi youths ought to be educated in good schools. They are supposed to be doctors and pilots, pharmacists and engineers. But, the APC and PDP administrations and the leaders of these parties took away the opportunities for the Kogi youths to be educated and excel. Today, the children of the poor have been neglected. If I was not offered a scholarship to read medicine, who knows what I would have become? When we get to power, we will address this issue of empowering the Kogi youths squarely. Specifically, what would you do to provide relief to support indigent students of Kogi? We will return scholarships for the children of the poor. During my administration in Kogi State, by God’s grace, the children of the poor who are brilliant will be offered scholarships to study to whatever level they wish. Such children should not stop their education because their parents are poor. Instead, during my administration, such students will be offered scholarships so that they will realize their full potentials. We will encourage them and give everyone equal opportunity to excel and become something. Without empowering the youths and educating the children, Kogi will remain poor and underdeveloped in future. What is your sports agenda for Kogi State? Our government programmes will be all-encompassing. From our education plan, we will return the state’s education system to standard. Our education policy will also impact positively on sports. Every community primary school will be used to build sports.  Through the schools, we will develop grassroots sports. We will build a system which will be all-encompassing, where there will be infrastructures, sports facilities. We will pay attention to human resource development, training and retraining of teachers to be able to provide the necessary tutoring of students. The system we shall build will be awesome. Have you taken time to consider the issue of funding your campaigns if you want to defeat the APC candidate who is an incumbent, and the PDP candidate who is not a push over as finance is concerned? The APC and PDP administrations stole our money. But now, money politics will no longer work in Kogi State. We are telling the people of Kogi that if the PDP and APC candidates offer them money, they should collect their money because their money belongs to Kogi people. Their money belongs to the people. But, having done that, they should vote for us. They should vote for the United Peoples Congress (UPC).