A group of civil society organisations (CSOs), at the weekend urged the Federal Government not to follow through with the plan to increase Value Added Tax (VAT) from five per cent to 7.2 per cent, adding that the move will increase poverty and widen inequality in the country. The group also argued that the move by the Federal Government would neutralise the benefits of the recently signed national minimum wage of N30,000. The CSOs were reacting to the recent announcement by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, that the Federal Executive Council had approved the proposal to increase VAT from five percent to 7.5 percent. The CSOs in the Platform are Christian Aid, ActionAid Nigeria, Centre for Democracy and Development, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), OXFAM Nigeria and Imo State Tax Justice and Governance Platform, said: “We call on the Federal Government to pay serious attention to widening the tax net rather than increasing the rate, which will only place more burden on the few that complies and still exempts the majority that do not pay taxes. “If government wants to still go ahead with the increase, we expect empirical projections and evidence-based expected outputs to indicate that the tax yield from the increase will outweigh any disadvantage and potential negative impact. “We also want the government to guarantee that majority of Nigerians will be the ultimate beneficiaries of the proposed measures”. The CSOs called for the establishment of the beneficial ownership register in Nigeria as a measure of knowing people’s real worth and what they were expected to pay as tax. “We call on the Federal Government to again beam its searchlight on illicit financial flows from Nigeria, as it represents a source of substantial revenue leakage and loss to government. We urged government to, in the meantime, reduce the tax incentives granted to multinationals and consider full digitisation of the processes of tax administration to curb leakages in the system. “We call on the Federal Ministry of Finance to ensure that the FIRS is not compelled to impose hardships on hapless Nigerians in a bid to generate taxes to meet unrealistic targets. “The platform calls on the Federal Government to improve market information and transparency by implementing the National Tax Policy,” they said. The group, under the auspices of Tax Justice and Governance Platform, (TJGP) Nigeria, in a joint statement also advocated for the promotion of a progressive, fair and transparent system in which domestic resources would be utilised for people-oriented development. They, however, called on all Nigerians, especially civil society organisations, the media and labour, to continue to raise their voices against measures and policies that would further impoverish Nigerians. MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM Oil Slips Toward $60 On Demand Despite Trade Hope Mohammed Shosanya, Lagos Oil price slipped to around 60 dollars per barrel at the weekend as concerns about a slowdown in global economy and oil demand outweighed hints of progress in the U.S.-China trade dispute. It would be recalled that the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and the International Energy Agency (IEA) both issued reports during the week pointing to an oil surplus next year, despite an OPEC-led pact to cut supply that runs until March. “Oil prices have been slipping in recent days even as stock markets have rallied and inventory data has reported large drawdowns,” said Craig Erlam of OANDA. “The IEA and others continue to downgrade forecasts for demand as global economic growth fears mount.” Benchmark Brent crude LCOc1 was down 25 cents at 60.13 dollars a barrel by 0830 GMT, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate CLc1 was up five cents at 55.14 dollars. Hopes of progress in the trade dispute lent support. The world’s two largest economies are preparing for a new round of talks aimed at curbing the prolonged spat and have been making conciliatory gestures, cheering investors. “A wave of optimism is sweeping across financial markets,” said Lukman Otunuga, analyst at broker FXTM, citing “optimism over a potential breakthrough in the U.S.-China trade saga.” Brent has traded in a range of nearly five dollars this week and is heading for its first weekly loss in five weeks. The U.S. benchmark, similarly volatile, was on track for the first weekly drop in three weeks. Brent is up 12 per cent in 2019, helped by a deal by OPEC and allies including Russia, an alliance known as OPEC+, to cut output by 1.2 million barrels per day. The producers are trying to stop inventories from building up and, in a sign the plan is bearing fruit, U.S. crude oil stocks fell last week to the lowest in nearly a year. An OPEC+ monitoring committee met this week and secured pledges from OPEC members, Nigeria and Iraq to deliver their share of the cut, something they have failed to do so far, but made no progress on possibly deepening the supply cut. Some OPEC delegates say the idea of a larger cut for next year is gaining support. But Saudi Arabia’s new energy minister said talks on that issue would be left until the next OPEC+ meeting in December. MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM Ngige’s Re-Appointment, Reward For Outstanding Performance – ILO The Director General of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Mr. Guy Ryder at the weekend stated that the re-appointment of Sen. Chris Ngige as Nigeria’s Minister of Labour and Employment is a reward for outstanding performance in a very sensitive Ministry. Dennis Zulu, the Director, ILO Country Office for Nigeria, Ghana, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Liaison for ECOWAS,  in letter signed on his behalf of Ryder, said the development was an indication of the confidence reposed in the Minister by the President, further commending Ngige for the cordial relationship between Nigeria and the ILO. “We also take this opportunity to appreciate the cordial relationship that exists between the ILO Country Office, Abuja, the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment and the Federal Republic of Nigeria over the years, the Director General said.” He further pledged the continued collaboration between the ILO and Nigeria. MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM Governments Have Critical Role In Shaping The Digital Economy- UNCTAD The United Nation Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) on Friday declared that governments, especially in emerging markets have a critical role in shaping the digital economy by defining the rules of the game. According to UNCTAD, this involves the adaptation of existing policies, laws and regulations, and the adoption of new ones in many areas. UNCTAD in its first-ever Digital Economy Report 2019, said a smart embrace of new technologies, enhanced partnerships and greater intellectual leadership are needed to redefine digital development strategies and the future contours of globalisation. It recommended that policy responses need to consider increased difficulties of enforcing national laws and regulations with respect to cross-border trade in digital services and products. The UN body said governments in the region should explore new pathways for local value creation and capture, and structural transformation through digitalisation. According to it, national development strategies should also seek to promote digital upgrading (value addition) in data value chains, and to enhance domestic capacities to “refine” the data. “Digitalisation affects different countries in different ways, and individual governments require policy space to regulate the digital economy to meet various legitimate public policy objectives,” the report stated. Furthermore, UNCTAD said concerted global efforts are required to spread the rapidly expanding digital economy’s gains to the many people who currently reap little benefit from it. While noting that wealth creation in the digital economy is highly concentrated in the United States and China, with the rest of the world, especially countries in Africa and Latin America, trailing considerably far behind, UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, stressed that efforts must be harnessed to close the digital divide, where more than half the world has limited or no access to the Internet. UNCTAD Secretary-General, Mukhisa Kituyi said: “We need to respond to the desire of people in developing countries to take part in the new digital world, not just as users and consumers, but also as producers, exporters and innovators, for creating and capturing more value on their path towards inclusive prosperity.” According to UNCTAD, developing countries risk remaining providers of raw data. It pointed out that the dominance of global digital platforms, their control of data, as well as their capacity to create and capture the ensuing value, accentuates concentration and consolidation rather than reducing inequalities between and within countries. It warned that developing countries risk becoming mere providers of raw data, while having to pay for the digital intelligence generated using their data. “If left unaddressed, the yawning gap between the under-connected and the hyper-digitalized countries will widen, and inequalities be exacerbated. Breaking this vicious circle requires out-of-the-box thinking. One way is to consider finding an alternative configuration of the digital economy that leads to more balanced results and a fairer distribution of the gains from data and digital intelligence. “At the same time, several policy challenges associated with value creation and capture in the digital economy can only be effectively addressed at the regional or international level, with the full involvement of developing countries. This includes competition, taxation, cross-border data flows, intellectual property, trade and employment policies,” it stressed.