TRAINS to Hong Kong’s airport were suspended yesterday as protests against the government grew more violent. On Saturday rioters hurled petrol bombs at government buildings and bricks and acid at police officers fighting to contain the chaos. Roads were blocked and shops set alight. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Yesterday hundreds mounted barricades at a bus terminal by Chek Lap Kok island airport but did not attempt to enter the airport itself, which was guarded by a ring of police. Iron poles, bricks and rocks were strewn onto railway tracks, but the authorities cancelled train services before any accidents occurred, MorningStar reports. Other protesters gathered outside the British consulate demanding Britain grant citizenship to Hong Kong residents born before 1997, when the colony, seized during 1842’s opium war, was returned to China. Many waved British flags and a saxophonist played God Save the Queen. Two police officers fired two warning shots into the air “to protect their own safety” after being surrounded by protesters near Victoria Park on Saturday, the government said. It was the second time during the current unrest that police have fired warning shots following an incident the previous weekend. Protests have raged in Hong Kong for more than two months, sparked by opposition to an extradition Bill that would have allowed courts to send suspected criminals for trial in a number of other jurisdictions. Though the Bill was a response to Taiwan’s demand for extradition of Chan Tong-kai, a man who murdered his pregnant girlfriend and fled to Hong Kong, where he is at liberty, separatist groups claimed it was a bid by Beijing to allow political persecution of its opponents in the special autonomous region and a violation of the “one country, two systems” policy agreed when Chinese sovereignty was restored. Hundreds of thousands have marched demanding the resignation of Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam and a range of political demands, including electoral reform. More extreme protesters have called for US military intervention to detach the city from China. But similar-sized pro-Chinese demos have also occurred, with several rallies against violence and for Chinese unity reaching attendances of half a million in the city’s Tamar park.