Kumar R. Dillp, Executive Vice President, TVS Motor Company in an interview with journalists in Lagos, spoke about the plan of the manufacturing company to expand its business in Africa and Nigeria in particular, and also create employment for the teaming population. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the Excerpts: As Nigeria marks her 59 years independence anniversary, and as a marketing company in the country, what are the challenges you have as a member of the business community? We want to use this opportunity to congratulate Nigeria on her 59 Independence Anniversary. We as a business community appreciate the country for having afforded us the opportunity to do business in the country. The country has good policies that have encouraged us as a company to do thriving business. There is no serious challenge that is associated with our business or transaction which is different from what exists in other business climes. The issue of multiple taxation, pockets of insecurity, infrastructural decay are some of the issues that any business can have,  but they are not insurmountable. We have been in the country for close to two decades and it has been good relationship, and we know that things will improve. We are hopeful that government policies would continue to improve to engender better business environment. We have good market in this country and Nigeria being a major player in the African continent has encouraged us to expand our business frontier. We, as a company have also appreciated our customers and distributors in commemoration of the anniversary through our product offering. We would always support the country’s programmes because we are part of the system. Can you talk about your product and business activity generally? Our company, TVS Motor Company is a company that has been operational in Nigeria for decades. We have chosen to do business in Nigeria because it has given us the enabling environment to thrive. You know that it is not everywhere that you go that you can easily do business. In some countries you may want to do business but government policy and sometimes insecurity can hinder you from performing optimally but in Nigeria the case is different. We have announced that the TVS HLX series of motorcycles, which was launched in 2013, has crossed one million units milestone in sales. It is an incredible feat for an Indian motorcycle developed exclusively for international markets. The TVS HLX series made its first foray in Africa and the brand was developed to cater to tough usage conditions of commuters. TVS Motor Company achieved this through extensive customer research, understanding of ride cycles, robust engineering and extensive field trials. This led to HLX becoming the benchmark for quality and a leader in its segment in Africa and across global markets. The one million milestones is a reinforcement of TVS Motor Company’s endeavour to continue offering superior products and complement them with dedicated customer satisfaction initiatives. How important is this market for you? Nigeria is an important market for TVS Motor Company, and we have been present here for over a decade. With the help of our distributor TVS Simba, our products have found acceptance in the market with TVS HLX becoming the fastest growing motorcycle in its category. The quality and reliability which are synonymous with TVS Motor Company has resonated strongly with our customers. Certainly, the investments made by the company and our distributor, particularly in our assembly plants and service centres based across the country, have been critical to this. We are happy to invest in this country. Nigeria as we know is a big market. It is an important country in Africa and that is why we are very hopeful that our investment in Nigeria would yield positive returns. We also want to add value to the country in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). We have been able to employ a lot of Nigerians as well. I would say it is mutual relationship here. The distributors that we have are Nigerians; our staff working across the country is Nigerians. We want to do more business and open more outlets because we have come to stay and also give the people the opportunity to benefit from the business relationship. Which other part of the African market is important to you? We have presence in Kenya as well for over 15 years. The wide product range and easy availability of TVS products have contributed to our popularity in the region. Just like in Nigeria, we have also set up an assembly plant in Kenya which serves the dual purpose of local hubs as well as creates job opportunities. The Kenyan market is important to us because our products have been accepted and the customers are happy with the products. You know that in business the most important thing is for your product to be accepted by the consumers and once that happens you have solved a greater percentage of your problem because it would no longer be issue of looking for buyers but the major challenge would be trying to meet the needs of your customers. You must make sure that the products would be available on demand that is what we try to do. We don’t want to disappoint our customers. You know that in business if you fail to meet supply ypou are opening loopholes for your customers to begin to look for alternative and so we have not allowed that to happen. We have always met demands of our clients as well as met quality or what I would call standards. I would say that the Kenyan consumers are happy with our products from the feedback that we get. Can you mention the cash cow among the ranges of products that you present to your market? Our leading brand in the African continent is the HLX series. Launched in 2013, it has stayed true to the brand’s promise of being a sturdy product which is highly reliable across tough terrains. TVS HLX has been instrumental in transforming millions of lives across Africa by providing an easy mobility solution for riders, as well as becoming an employment provider by creating opportunities for riders. TVS HLX series is synonymous with fuel efficiency, durability and comfortable suspension. Thoughtful features it is fitted with, such as USB mobile charger ensures that customers are well equipped in areas of frequent power outage. The long seat and easy serviceability are unique selling propositions of the HLX series, and are particularly loved by its customers. This brand is the toast of our customer. They are always in high demand and the reason is that we have always maintained quality. We have not come down on our standards instead we have continued to improve on what we are offering. What is your plan for this product? Our immediate focus is to ensure that TVS HLX is available across the entire continent of Africa. Today we have crossed over one million sales across the globe and we are confident that TVS HLX will continue to do well in these regions. I mentioned earlier that we have improved on standards and so I will also say that our plan for the product is renovation. We have plans of improving on standards. We know that consumers like the product and we want to keep them and so the only way to keep them is to man standards and where there is need we would improve on quality. Do you have plan of launching newer models in Nigeria in the near future? Launching new products is a continuous process. TVS Motor Company keeps customer insight at the centre of all our offerings which helps us identify the gap in their requirements and provide improved products accordingly. I said that we would continue to improve on the product. What we intend to do is to add new innovations if need arises. We will keep you posted as when we launch new products. Can you list the product portfolio of TVS Motor Company? TVS Motor Company provides two-wheelers and three-wheelers for both personal uses as well as for commercial point-to-point transportation. Tell us more about TVS Motor Company? TVS Motor Company is a reputed two and three-wheeler manufacturer and is the flagship company of the USD 8.5 billion TVS Group. We take pride in making internationally inspirational products of the highest quality through innovative and sustainable processes. We endeavor to deliver the most superior customer experience across 60 countries. We are the only two-wheeler company to have received the prestigious Deming Prize Award. Our products lead in their respective categories in the J.D. Power IQS and APEAL surveys for four years.  We have been ranked number one Company in the J.D. Power Customer Service Satisfaction Survey for consecutive four years.