ABUJA – Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) has called for the revival and deepening of bilateral ties in political, trade, economic and humanitarian areas between Nigeria and Russia. Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, President of ACCI, who made the call yesterday in Abuja at the agenda setting roundtable on the upcoming Russia-Africa Roundtable, said there are abundant potentials for cooperation between both countries in the areas such as hydrocarbon production and processing, nuclear power industry and agriculture, continued military-technical, training civilian specialists and law enforcement officers for Nigeria at Russian universities.
Kayode represented by Mr. Balarabe Usman, ACCI’s Vice President, Finance, said over the years, the diplomatic relationship between both countries had witnessed the establishment of Russia-Nigeria Business Council (RNBC) which oversees economic activities between the two countries.
He added that RNBC was however inactive for a long time following the demise of the initial founder, Mr. Goodie Ibru, adding that after series of meetings, the Council had been revived under a new leadership.
According to him, “It is on record that these two countries have held three meetings of the Joint Commission, the last was held as far back in 2009.
“The Joint Commission was the platform for the two countries to sit down and draw up agreements and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on how to conduct businesses and investment in each other’s country.
“But I am tempted to say, we have not done very well beyond signing the dotted lines.
“Ladies and gentlemen, this gathering today is aimed at taking a critical look into our common desire to revive and deepen our business relations. We are to fashion new strategies and innovative ways to turn-around our fortunes in this regard.”
Kayode, who is also the Chairman of Nigeria-Russia Business Council (NRBC), tasked the participants at the roundtable meeting to give priority attention to economic issues and sectors like industrialisation, agriculture, agro-processing, fertilizer, culture, telemedicine, railway value chain (coaches, wagons, rolling stocks, equipment and accessories), fibre reinforcement, banking/finance, investment, training, metal/foundries and commodity marketing that have shaped the relationship between Nigeria and Russia.
As of 2018, the trade volume between Nigeria and Russia stood at $600million.