HRM Lucky Ararile, the Ovie of Umiaghwa Abraka kingdom, is a retired Air Vice Marshal (AVM) in the Nigerian Air Force. In this interview with JOHN AMUDO, he bares his mind on critical issues in the country. Excerpts: Sir, from your own perspective, what is your assessment of the state of the nation, Nigeria, as at today? Let me give you the opinion of some international organisations first before mine. We are now ranked number 14 out of the 178 countries of the world in the order of what they called tendency to become a failed state, fragile state index they called it. Our position in the other global indexes are equally bad. So, if you look at those states that are below us, you could easily observe that most of them are either at war or near so. So, we are in the company of such countries like Yemen, Afghanistan, Somalia, South Sudan, you name it. Those are the companies we now keep. Some may argue that we are a failed state; some say we are a failing state. We all feel the pain. As Nigerians, there is not much difference to us between a failed state and a failing state. So, if you agree with the opinions of international organisations as you have enumerated, what then would you regard as the elements of a failing state? According to the United Nations rapporteur on extra-judicial killings and other matters, she summarized it basically to be injustice; injustice and the compounding of injustice. So, when you grumble or complain that the system is unjust to you, instead of the system addressing the injustice, it compounds it. So, whether we are talking about the injustice of the Niger Delta, or we are talking about the mishandling of the injustice that was meted out to the original founder of Boko Haram that snowballed into what they have now; or the injustice of land grabbing by people who are not Nigerians to the extent that as we speak, almost every square kilometer of Nigerian land is under contest between the indigenes and some foreigners, injustice underlines the character of a failing state. So, whether you want to talk about Delta State, with the influx of the so-called Fulani herdsmen; whether it is in the South East, whether it is in the South West, whether it is in the middle belt or in the North West, the invading Fulani are there. You do not hear so much of the problem of the Fulani herdsmen in the North East because that is already a battle zone. But you now have it in the North West. We have categorised the Fulani herdsmen into three. You have the foreign Fulani herdsmen, the local Fulani herdsmen and those Fulani who were born and bred in the same environment with their host communities over the years. The entry of the foreign Fulani has been justified by the provision of the ECOWAS Protocol on Free Movement. The question to ask is what is the stake of these foreign Fulani in Nigeria? How did Nigeria become a party to a Protocol that allows foreigners to invade our country? The categorisation was made by the Governor of Kano State. [He categorized Fulani herdsmen into three – the foreign Fulani, the local Fulani and Fulani that are now indigenes in other states. In other words, they were born and bred in those states and they have been living their lives unmolested.] Now, those that are settlers in places other than their own, we have no problems with them. The local Fulani that have been herding their cattle through these centuries, we have not had any problem with them. Even in my kingdom here, I can tell you where their camp is, and they have been there since time immemorial. They come and go. Now, enters the third category of Fulani – those that are from other African countries, mainly from Guinea, Mali and some that have been dislodged from Central African Republic. And given the availability of illicit weapons, they come into the country armed. Before they leave Mali, Guinea to Nigeria, they would have passed through Senegal, Cote d’Voire, Ghana, Togo, Benin Republic before Nigeria; then from the North, through Niger. How come everybody is heading to Nigeria? Why don’t these countries have the same problems? They tried it in Ghana but the Ghanaian President decisively solved the issue. Here, definitely they are succeeding to the extent that almost every square kilometre of land in Nigeria is under contention between the indigenes and foreign Fulani herdsmen. Now, let me make a distinction. Although we say foreign Fulani herdsmen, the truth is that those people have certain physical similarities with the local Fulani but they do not speak Fulfude. And they have sympathy too from the local Fulani. So, it is the sympathy of the local Fulani that has emboldened the foreign Fulani. And these foreign Fulani have no sympathy; they have no value for life; they have no attachment to anybody or any land. They are just there to main, to kill and to take possession of the land they are able to grab. So, this essentially is a land-grabbing issue. And we must look at it from that perspective and isolate the indigenous/local Fulani from those foreign Fulani. What about the ECOWAS Protocol? ECOWAS protocol or no ECOWAS protocol, we have our own local laws that govern our interactions. You cannot say because the ECOWAS protocol guarantees free movement then you bring your cattle and because you have an AK47 rifle, you will go and take over somebody’s house. They even invaded the National Assembly at one point in time; they attempted incursions to some Nigerian universities at a time. Schools in Edo State at a time were almost close down because of Fulani. If they are actually grazing, do they have grasses in classrooms? So, the whole idea is another form of terrorism, and this time, it is to terrorise the indigenes so that they can run away from their land and they will settle there. This is the issue. And they have their sympathisers in Nigeria, otherwise it wouldn’t have been possible. There are the sponsors and people who are sympathising with them. And this sympathy may be by bending local rules and laws and by supplying them with comfort, one way or the other, or financial support. If you juxtapose this analysis of yours on land grabbing tendency by the foreign Fulani with the federal government’s recent RUGA settlement policy, though now suspended, is there any likelihood of compromise by the federal government? The issue to consider is that this phenomenon has been in ascendancy only recently. So, why is it that all of a sudden Fulani are everywhere and are fighting everyone; the economy is collapsing, insecurity everywhere; people are being kidnapped everywhere, but the only policy which the federal government can sit down and think about was RUGA? Why the immediacy, why the urgency, with all the plethora of problems that we have that the government doesn’t seem to care about or address? Why the urgency with RUGA? And in any case, RUGA is a private business. With all the number of cows we claim to have, we are not a major producer or exporter of cattle. If this is how other countries grow their cattle, then in New Zealand, Australia, Botswana, etc, cows will be attending classes with students. But seriously, the issue of cattle rearing is a private matter.