Barrister Onuchi Oriaku is an activist, a human rights promoter and public affairs commentator. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term cabinet, South East expectations from the current federal administration, the 2023 presidency, among other crucial issues. Excerpts: How do you see the ministerial allocation to South East by President, Muhammadu Buhari compare to those of other zones? There has never been a conclusive agreement by the entire country regarding the debate on the method of allocating ministerial appointments in Nigeria to zones and tribes, notwithstanding each state having at least one ministerial spot visa viz the appointment of the best qualified hand and sharing them among the zones. But, the truth is that a round peg must be inserted into a round hole for any system to work. Every political appointment can be validly defended by appointer or political party. However, in a heterogeneous and multi tribal entity like Nigeria where the stakeholders are made up of various groups including political group, religious group, tribal group, educational group, professional group, the disable and gender groups, every group will want to be carried along notwithstanding whether all the appointed are round pegs in a round hole. Thus, there is no how all these interest groups can ever be satisfied one by one. However, to achieve an appointment or allocation of posts to cover or seem to cover the yearnings and aspiration of the greater majority and to avoid the marginalisation of certain area or tribe, it will be wise to merge some of these groups. I think these are what the founding fathers of the geo-political zoning arrangement saw and created the six geo-political zones in Nigeria to ensure adequate representation in the allocation of political offices, notwithstanding the political parties controlling the zones.  Now the question is: If all the political parties, stakeholders, states and citizens of Nigeria endorsed the zoning formula, were all the zones treated equally? By the spirit of zoning, none is superior to the other; this question cannot be answered without sentiment taking into consideration that the National Assembly ratified the nominees and approved them both in character, qualification and representation, anything said or done later is an academic exercise since we elected them to represent us. In a nutshell, the South East in these recent appointments was not equally treated like other zones. See the names and states of the ministers. Would you say that those ministers who were re-appointed or who retained their positions performed well during their first term? In all event of re-election, there must be re-appointment and/or retaining some of or all the former appointees, depending on the system in place and the psychology of the head. But, it will be most appropriate if the aggregate of their performance satisfied the yearnings and the aspiration of the greater majority and not just that of the appointer or the controllers of the system. Appointment in any new term of office should not be seen as a reshuffle. Any political party during their term in office that satisfied all her electioneering manifestos or at least 60% and/or satisfied the yearnings and aspiration of the greater majority deserves re-election. So also is any appointee of such administration. In the instant case, it is not all the former ministers that were re-appointed performed very well, either as a minister or on the ministry served. This fact manifested itself after the screening of the nominees, when people started suggesting where some of them should not be posted to taking into consideration their performance during their previous assignment. In as much as they were appointed by the executive arm, screened by the legislature, they will work for the entire nation and for the benefit of every citizen. Someone then deserved not to be retained. But, which one is better, the devil you know, or the angel you do not know? What do you think the South East should expect from this administration? In every new dispensation or administration freshly elected or re-elected, expectations are always high, demands are made, proposals sent, courtesy calls are made, groups identify themselves with the new administration, all aimed at seeking for recognition and for fair treatment, both in appointments and allocations of capital projects and other benefits. In Nigeria, every zone, as a result of different terrain has its peculiar needs. Some national, individual or zonal programmes may not be suitable for all the zones, even if it were to be shared equally among the zones, hence the need for every zone to be treated according to its peculiar needs or requirement. Ministerial nomination, screening and allocation of portfolios have been concluded. Each zone is now counting its gains, losses or marginalisation and South East zone is not an exception. However, this administration is still young in office. If it must be seen that the South East zone is and/or not marginalised, I believe like every other South Easterner this administration must as a matter of urgency, take drastic measure at rehabilitating the dilapidated federal roads in the zone. FERMA (Federal Roads Maintenance Agency) has a limit to what it can do. It will amount to total neglect if the federal roads in the zone are not giving urgent attention and/or state of emergency declared on these roads. How could South East present its desire to produce the president in 2023, if it must be seen as serious by the other zones to warrant their support? In a democratic set up, political power is not given by political parties. But the Nigerian system seems not to be the case, albeit the South East. It will be a mirage to think that come 2023, that political power could be given to the South East by any person, group, political power or any system if democratic principles will be followed, taken into consideration that not all the zones has had a shot at the presidency. However, production of the president in 2023 has already started by serious zones. If the South East ever believes that the zoning formula can ever enable them to produce the next president, they should first ask themselves whether the zoning arrangement has ever been religiously followed in the nominations and appointments of political office holders. For the South East to contemplate taking a shot at Aso Rock come 2023, they ought as a matter of seriousness, first put their house in order, woo other zones, especially the zones that have taken a shot at the presidency. The degree of support from these zones will enable them know if it will be a feasible project. Again, there is this ugly trend in which the highest number of political parties and presidential aspirants normally come from South East. The main issue is not the registration of political party by any individual or groups, but its acceptability by the zones they come from. Most of these politicians that own or registered political parties contested in others that had national or state spread. South East is one of the zones that does not have a dominant political party. This is not good for her ambition. How do you see the recent attack on the former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, in Germany and attempted attack on President Muhammadu Buhari in Japan by IPOB members? The recent attack and attempted attack on people that are national symbols of Nigeria in foreign land is condemnable. But, a critical look at the underlining circumstances leaves one with the question: Why are the host countries silent about these ugly incidences? In international politics and international laws, this group of state functionaries has certain immunity in foreign lands, including on unlawful attacks. Some of the questions begging for answers include: What have these countries done or about to do? Does their action or inaction not indirectly supporting the attacks? If we say that it is a crime here in Nigeria, while the host countries where the attacks and the attempted attacks occurred say it is no crime, what happens, both in local and international laws? What if the host country who may not be pleased by the performance of the victim at home says the attack is accountability for stewardship? Furthermore, our security operatives cannot go to the host country or where the claimed attack took place to effect any form of arrest without the consent, permission, authority and/or support of that country legally. This was not the first time a government functionary/politician was attacked in the public. However, the reactions are diverse. Our dear Senator Ike Ekweremadu is a seasoned politician who has lent his weight to certain national issues. But, his brothers expected more from him on certain issues that affected his brothers negatively, hence the attack and which has also sent warning signals to others who cannot protect their constituency and people after election victory. How do you see the performance of Abubakar Malami as the AGF and Minister of Justice in his first term? Do you think he deserves a second appointment? This question can be answered in one sentence, whether during his first tenure, was rule of law observed? Ironically, he is not a law or judgment enforcement agent or agency. We all know that governments, both local and international, are all guilty of disobeying court orders. The AGF and SGFs act as advisers to their appointers, who may or may not take their advice. Again, the splitting of the agencies for fighting crimes also adds to the difficulty in assessing the AGF. Most landmark prosecutions are being done by other agencies like EFCC and ICPC. It is the government that disobeys court orders. However, while I have said that the AGF is not a law or judgment enforcement agent or agency, lawyers find it difficult to secure his consent in executing certain court judgments against certain arms of the government like the Police and Custom, which the Sheriff and Civil Process Act solely conferred on him to do. Some applications for his consent last up to one year before acknowledgement are sent to the applicants by his office, with the most disheartening word after one year, that ‘Your request is being attended to’, knowing that the applicants are his colleagues whom he will eventually meet again, thereby frustrating the efforts of his colleagues. Many would rather not apply to his office for letter of consent. Rule of law cannot be said to be observed when one arm of a government, which is empowered and/or entrusted by law, is frustrating the execution of judgments of courts validly obtained against any arm of the government, especially in fundamental rights enforcement. Such frustration tantamount to overturning or over ruling the judgment of courts Would you say that Nigeria needs a revolution for proper democracy to take roots?  If so what form should such a revolution take? Revolution as a word is defined among other meanings by Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English as ‘A time when people change a ruler or political system by using force or violence’. The dictionary went further to liking it to mean revolt, rebellion. If you compare this definition with democracy or democratic rule, you will agree with me that you cannot use a revolution to achieve democracy in Nigeria bearing in mind that elections come every four years. However, agitations and peaceful protests are veritable instruments to demonstrate against any bad ruler, both in politics and offices. Furthermore, the voter’s card is the only legal weapon to change a government in a democracy, rigging and other electioneering manipulations notwithstanding.