Abuja -bInforma Markets and SkipperSeil have announced the details of the 2019 Power Nigeria exhibition and conference scheduled to take place from 24th – 26th September at Landmark Centre, Lagos.
The convener of West Africa’s largest power and renewable energy event, Power Nigeria, revealed this at the weekend in Abuja during a curtain raiser dinner held at the Transcorp Hilton.
The Managing Director- SkipperSeil Nigeria Limited, Rakesh Sardana, stated that Power exhibition and conference would play a key role in promoting the Nigerian power sector and showcasing the latest products and solutions for energy productivity.
“This year, attendees can look forward to insightful discussions on the opportunities and potential that abound for the power sector. Essentially, attendees will be able to see first-hand products and solutions that the Power Nigeria exhibition has bought together to address the energy needs in Nigeria.
“Skipper is committed to activities that foster renewable and long-term energy security, hence, our support for Power Nigeria,” Sardana stated.
On his part, Exhibition Director of Power Nigeria, Deep Karani, stressed that power is fundamental to the socio economic development of any nation.
According to Karani, “The energy sector is critical to the advancement of every economy. However, it is discouraged by a range of challenges from population outburst, lack of funding opportunities, inevitable industrialisation, and other technical barriers. Power Nigeria is set to discuss all these challenges and seek possible solutions to them while also providing a platform for renowned energy, electrical, renewable and power companies to showcase their products and solutions uniquely designed to alleviate power problems”.
He also announced the formal rebrand of Power Nigeria to Nigeria Energy which comes to effect in 2020. He said the change comes on the heels of the growth of their exhibitions that cater to more than just the power sector and have a strong foothold on the energy industry as a whole.
He urged interested energy industry professionals who want to attend the conference to register for free at www.power-nigeria.com