Dr. Kunle Olajide is the Secretary of Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on Nigeria’s democratic journey, Yoruba leadership, restructuring and other issues. Excerpts: What is your take on the recent judgement by the Presidential Election Tribunal, which affirmed President Muhammadu Buhari’s election? I am not lettered in law and the constitution makes it abundantly clear that if you are dissatisfied, you can go to the Supreme Court, which will be the final. So, we are hoping they are approaching the Supreme Court to give the final ruling on the matter. I listened to the judges and they appeared logical in their arguments, but like you and I know, in law, there could be technicality or omission here and there. So, let us wait for the Supreme Court and whoever emerges as president should please move Nigeria forward. Let us build a nation. Let us start to build a nation. We haven’t built one. How would you describe the recent emergence of a renowned professor of History and Second Republic member of the Senate, Prof. Banji Akintoye, as Yoruba leader? Prof. Banji Akintoye is one of our leaders and we are running a democratic government in Nigeria, where people can decide to sit together and elect a leader. I don’t think there is anything in our constitution that says there must be a Yoruba leader, Igbo leader, Hausa leader or Fulani leader. We have leadership in all sectors. We have leaders in the professional bodies, academia and so on. So, for me, Prof. Akintoye is welcome as a leader in Yoruba land. He has always been a foremost leader and I am happy with his acceptance speech; where he acknowledged the existence of leaders in Yoruba land. In fact, he named few and there are others, who he didn’t mention. So, for me there is nothing wrong with it. With the latest development, can Prof. Akintoye be regarded as the new Yoruba leader just like late sage and former Premier of Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Afenifere leader, Senator Abraham Adesanya, were regarded as Yoruba leaders during their lifetime? No! We are getting few things wrong. Awolowo as Yoruba leader emerged during a moment of crisis. During the military regime, there was a counter coup and it was really the counter coup that made Colonel Adeyinka Adebayo to decide to convene a meeting of leaders of thoughts at that time and Chief Awolowo said it clearly in his acceptance speech that he was accepting the responsibility because there was a ban on politics. And he said as soon as the ban on politics was lifted, he will cease to hold that position because people will belong to different political thinking and so on. There is no ban on politics now, so I think we should welcome Prof. Akintoye and his gospel, which is unity. We are looking for unity and I sincerely believe that he will unite with other leaders that he has acknowledged to give us the necessary leadership we need. But the argument and criticism in some quarters against Prof. Akintoye’s emergence as Yoruba leader is that past Yoruba leaders emerged naturally and not through election like in his case… We have only had one Yoruba leader and it was during a period of crisis. What about late Adekunle Ajasin and Abraham Adesanya? They were leaders of a particular Afenifere organisation like Prof. Akintoye acknowledged himself that he is a leader of a Yoruba group. A group of people can sit down and elect a leader. When you have a democratic government in place, the only leader people will recognise are those elected through constitutional process. Will the emergence of Prof. Akintoye as Yoruba leader not create division in Yoruba land, considering that the leading socio-cultural groups like Afenifere and Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) are divided at the moment? We are making a mistake. Our degree of enlightenment and socio political development cannot bottle us up in one group. People express different opinions and ways to achieve them, but we are looking for the same goal; restructuring of this country that would give relative independence and autonomy to each of the groups that make up Nigeria. Is there any physical war we are fighting? We are not fighting any war. There is a decline in development because of the political system of this country. So, what the Yoruba leadership of different folds, call it Afenifere, Afenifere Renewal Group, Yoruba Council of Elders or whatever organization; the goal is that, allow the Yoruba to take their destiny in their hands and allow the Igbo, Tivs, Ijaw, Jukuns, Fulani and others to take their destiny in their hands. That is all. You cannot keep us and say somebody is the leader. To me, it is a non-issue. I genuinely welcome Prof. Akintoye as one of our leaders and he has acknowledged it in his acceptance speech that he acknowledge and respect some leaders, which he mentioned their names. So, he will now come with his group and join hands with other leaders like Chief Reuben Fasoranti, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, Justice Ademola Bakare and Wale Oshun and they will continue to work for the progress of the Yoruba nation. So, there is nothing mystical about it. Nigeria will soon celebrate her 59th Independence anniversary. What is your take on Nigeria at 59? It has to be lowest because majority of Nigerians are hungry; very hungry. There is mass unemployment in the land. There is insecurity and infrastructure is a disaster. So, what are you celebrating? So, you believe there is no cause for celebration? No! We should just pray to God and thank Him that we still remained one. At least that we are one is enough for celebration, but not feasting. How can you be feasting with few people, when millions of people are languishing in poverty? Don’t you think that the independence anniversary is worth celebrating considering that Nigeria is still united? That is not for people who are exploiting us to go and be feasting on our money while we are languishing. They should sympatise with us, they should show empathy that they too feel the pains and we should not see them clicking Champagne classes and having sumptuous meals at our expense. No; that would be insensitive.