LAGOS – As Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) crisis deepens, Otunba Segun Adewale, popularly known as Aeroland and former State chairman of the party and his supporters are seeking the immediate removal from office of Dr. Agegbola Dominic, chairman of party. Adewale and his placard carrying supporters held membership assembly at the party’s secretariat on Tuesday demanding that Adewale be installed as the state chairman of the party because those who had piloted the affairs of the party had not given a good account of their stewardship. The politician stated that his tenure was to expire in 2021, having taken over mantle of leadership in 2016 but had to relinquish power as a result of issues in the party. He noted that Chief Bode George, former Deputy National Chairman of the party, unilaterally, against the party’s constitution, picked Dominic as acting state chairman of the party. He stressed that the constitution only recognised State Executive Committee or congress as a means of filling vacant positions or electing state officers. He maintained that George and his loyalists did that by fiat. He pointed out that the party had not fared well in recent elections in the state because those saddled with the responsibility of leadership had personal interests. The onetime chairman of the party recalled that in 2015 he won 7 out of 10 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Lagos West, garnered victory for House of Assembly and House of Representatives members but said that the reverse was the case now because of the kind of leadership the party had. The party leader said that he did not have any problem with the chairmen of the 20 LGAs, other state executives because they were duly elected. He insisted that Dominic was illegally installed as chairman and if nothing was done to correct that, he (Adewale) had the right to lay claim to chairmanship based on the 2016 letter of appointment given to him and also for the reason that no court or national executive committee sacked him as chairman. Debunking rumour that he was no longer a member of the party, Adewale said that he had since July last year rejoined the party from Action Democratic Party (ADP) and had shown so much support for PDP during the just concluded election when he donated five Hummer Jeeps and millions of naira to support the party, even as he challenged the other group to show their contributions to the party since they became members.