Prof. Zacharys Anger Gundu is the Pro-Chancellor of Benue State University (BSU), Makurdi. In this interview with JOSEPH UNDU, he spoke on the need for restructuring, his expectations from President Muhammadu Buhari and other issues. Excerpts: What is your view on the conduct of the 2019 general elections? Well, many of us expected significant improvements in the conduct of the elections. Unfor- tunately, the improvements were cosmetic and not significant enough. President Muhammadu Buhari in his wisdom refused to sign the Electoral Act Amended Bill. We could not therefore con- duct the election electronically. Thus, much of our investment in technology to aid the election literally went down the drain. Card readers, for example, did not have the place envisaged in the amended electoral law. In many places they were not used. It is clear that even if we were to use them as envisaged in the amended electoral law which the President refused to sign, we would have been in deep trouble. Even where INEC tried to use them, some did not work and this had to delay the elec- tions for several hours. In some places like Benue, where I voted, ad hoc staff trained in the use of the card readers were at the last minute replaced by others who had no prior training. We could not also collate the results of the elections electronically. In several states, there were in- stances of electoral violence and many died. Security agencies were implicated in violence in some of these states like Akwa Ibom and Rivers. The voting figures returned for states in the North East also did not make sense. How could voter turnout be so high in states like Bornu and Yobe when Boko Haram has ravaged these states to a point where schools and markets have closed down for several years and communi- ties destroyed and their popula- tions displaced? There were also instances of ballot snatching and destruction of election materials. On the whole, we could have done much better. The governorship elections were also another challenge. In some states like Benue, the elec- tions were declared inconclusive. INEC had argued that the margin of lead by the PDP against the APC could not give Governor Samuel Ortom a victory on the first bal- lot. This was strange because the votes in contention were wrongly calculated to have been the total number of registered voters in the disputed areas instead of the number of voters who had turned up for the election. I hope this will not be precedence. We do not think it is proper for someone to disrupt the election in his opponent’s stronghold targeting to reduce the opponent’s margin of lead so that an election could be declared inconclusive. Those who willfully disrupt elections must face the full wrath of the law and must know that in such circumstances, the entry in the records will be zero. On the whole, the conduct of the elections could have been much better than what we saw. What would you expect President Buhari to do differently in his second term? Well, the President had cam- paigned in his first term promis- ing to fight insecurity, improve the economy and fight corruption. We know that insecurity has height- ened. The economy has not im- proved and corruption is still with us and even around corridors of power. So, nothing has changed. I think, President Buhari was not properly prepared. We did not read him well. We saw him as that military general who had come in by fiat and was anxious to beat ev- eryone into a straight line. You do not beat people into straight lines in a democracy. The preparation you bring to the table is different and this president was not proper- ly prepared. His reading of inse- curity, whether in the North East, Zamfara, Benue and other parts of the country, is totally wrong and misleading. His understand- ing of corruption is targeting op- ponents and his understanding of the economy is poor. And in this assessment, we are generous to the President. Nigeria is a big and complex country. We cannot expect an immediate turn around, but the President must deliver on his promises around insecurity, the economy and corruption. He mustnotbeasslowashewasin the first term. He must read the Nigerian situation and context better than what he has done in the past four years. As a prominent Tiv son, are you sat- isfied with the place of Tiv in national politics today? Many times in discussing the national question, I try to avoid the trap of going into the ethnic cocoon. Yet, the Nigerian project is work in progress. The country is built on an iniquitous trinity of Hausa-Fulani, Yoruba and Igbo. Once these three groups are satis- fied on an issue, all others are sac- rificial lambs. There is cause for worry about other groups like the Tiv who are not able to make the iniquitous trinity. The Tiv popula- tion in Benue alone is more than the total population in 16 Nigeri- an states. These include Plateau, Nasarawa, Gombe, Ekiti, Kwara, Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Abia,Yobe, Kogi, Zamfara, Adamawa, Cross River, Taraba, Edo and Kebbi. This has huge implications for representa- tion and equity. One also remem- bers that in the First Republic, Tiv Native Authority was at par with Native Authorities like Kano, Sokoto and Borno, especially in terms of revenue base and even population. We can count several states and Local Government Ar- eas out of the defunct Borno, Kano and Sokoto Native Authorities, while the Tiv are in Benue shar- ing the state with their Idoma kith and kin. Yet, we cannot completely exoneratetheTiv.Thenameofthe game now is not numbers, but or- ganisation. I think for many of the small groups that have not made the iniquitous trinity in Nigeria, they can only survive and be taken as serious players in the Nigerian project if they reorganise. They must also press for the restruc- turing of the country, because as it is currently configured, Nigeria is not sustainable and may soon be a failed state. Looking at the widespread state of in- security in most of the Tiv dominated communities in Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states, what do you think is the cause and solution to this problem? Nigeria is work in progress. Citizens are not properly inte- grated. Citizens see each other in ethnic clusters tied to their ancestral lands. They hardly understand and appreciate the histories of the lands they claim as their own and are not ready to share these lands with others. So, the Tiv in Taraba and Nasarawa states are still seen and treated as coming from outside. This is a cause for concern and is at the back of incessant conflicts in these two states. There are also the herdsmen clashes targeting the Benue valley and other parts of the Middle Belt. The modern state is built on private property and clear boundaries. It is also built on regulation. No modern state will allow a group of people free access to water and pasture indiscriminately across its terri- tories. Time is up for indiscrimi- nate grazing. Time is up for the pastoral lifestyle. The Fulani who are in the monopoly called pastoralism do not want to hear this. They see the Benue valley as the fresh water capital of the country and covet its waters and pasture for their livestock. Just a few days ago, the President said in far away Dubai that Nigeria cannot distinguish between the Fulani pastoralist and other Fu- lani pastoralists coming from other West African countries. By implication, the herdsmen killing and destroying Nigerian commu- nities come from all over the West African sub-region. He has thus admitted that the Fulani of the ‘whole world’ are attacking Nige- ria and claiming Nigerian lands as their own. This is not only high nonsense, its treason.