The Inspector General of Police, Mr Adamu Mohammed on Monday paid a courtesy visit to the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode over recent cases of extra-judicial killings recorded in the State. The IGP during the vowed that all the affected officers would be charged to court and made to face the full wrath of the law. Speaking at Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja, Mohammed who was accompanied on the visit by top Police chiefs, said the affected officers have already been arrested and tried internally, but that they would also face criminal prosecution for such act, which according to him, was against ethics of the Force. He said it was on record that police officers in the State have been performing creditably well, but that the activities of few unscrupulous ones were denting the good work of others. “I came to pay a courtesy visit to the Governor because I am in Lagos State to see the officers and men of the Nigerian Police. I came to talk to them on good behaviour and to remind them of the ethics of the job. We are to serve members of the public; we are not their masters, we are their servants. “The officers and men in Lagos State have been doing a lot of a good job in fighting crime and they have been succeeding but the acts of few officers out of many in Lagos State are denting the good works that others have done. “Recently, we have had some overzealous officers who went out of their way in the course of performing their duties; they shot a lady dead and we felt that is not acceptable. “It is unbecoming and I had to come down to talk to officers and men to remind them of their duties and to tell them that anybody that goes out of his way to commit extra-judicial killing, such a person is on his own and he has to face the wrath of the law and in this particular case, the officers that were involved have been arrested; they have been tried in our internal way of dealing with such issue and at the same time, they would be charged to court,” Mohammed assured. He also commended Governor Ambode for the massive support to police and other security agencies in the State, saying the successes recorded in keeping the State safe would not have been possible if not for the support of the Governor.