Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), recently spoke on the resignation of former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen and the concluded elections in Rivers State, where leader of the APC in the State and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi adopted the governorship candidate of African Action Congress (AAC). TONY EZIMAKOR brings the excerpts: What is your take on the resignation of Walter Onnoghen? The issue we have in this coun- try is that, many people, espe- cially those who have been part of the impunity of the past are struggling badly to adjust to the reality of rule of law. That is the major issue we are facing in this country. There is so much struggle to allow the past that is not good enough for us as a country to go on than for all of us to rise and face the future, future of promise, future of change, so that we can move to the ‘Next Level’. When this case happened, as usual, PDP especially and some of their allies, the Civil Societies, (not the entire community of the civil societies) saw everything with the barometer of politics And we do know that, until we all rise above sentiments, no matter what part of the divide you find yourself and we see first and foremost this as an issue that has to do with our country. That is the only way we can progress. We knew right from the begin- ning that what the immediate past CJN (that is if his resignation letter is accepted) the allegations were too serious and we know that the President does not act on frivolities, he must have done his background checks, he must have gotten good information to have taken the action he took and not just taking that action, that there was basis for the action that can be legally proven and those law- yers, so-called Senior Advocates of Nigeria who had over the years dipped their hands along with some of these judicial officers, in the till of this country, continued to lampoon the President, lam- poon the APC and blaming this government that is doing its best to right several of the wrongs that we have been used to. And they accused us that we were actually the one trying to kill democracy and this party rose in the defense of the President because we understand that the President we know, means well, he knows the real purpose that drives his actions. Now, events have proven the President right. Events have proven the party, APC right. Events have proven those Nigerians who believe Nigeria first and any other things after – events have proven them right. We all can only be hiding be- hind one finger, otherwise we knew Nigerians, reasonable Nige- rians knew from the word ‘cooked’ that those allegations were not cooked up and if they were real, the next thing for the CJN to have done was to have stepped aside and the question of, he wouldn’tbe the only one, why him? There is nowhere in the world where judg- ment is passed on every sinner at once. It is not every armed robber you can catch the same day. And even some you know, the slow will of justice may not catch up with them immediately but we must continue to see evidence that we are moving towards that sanity that we are making progressive efforts and sending strong signals to people who think this country must continue as long as they are comfortable and the rest of Nige- rians are suffering. We must send that signal to them. It is not going to be business as usual. Now, you have seen the head of National Assembly, Senate Pres- ident, you have seen him in the dock. Now, you have seen the CJN in the dock. So, one day, we will see a President that will also mis- behaves, in the dock which now shows that nobody is above the law of this country that we are all equal before the law. So, anybody who finds himself in any position, should now begin to look closely at his own actions knowing fully well that today may protect him but tomorrow may expose him. On Rivers, was it a failure of the APC? No, we don’t have anything to do with the Rivers State election. APC didn’t have candidates in Riv- ers State and that is why all, from the beginning, we didn’t throw ourselves so much into it. You knew what the Supreme Court did that, we were not qualified to contest, so, on that basis, whatev- er happened in Rivers, whether a Local Government that gave 80% total during Presidential election suddenly produced 320,000 for Wike during governorship elec- tion didn’t hurt us in any way. If INEC says that was correct, fine, it is up to the parties involved to take actions if they find it nec- essary but for us as a party, we didn’t have the opportunity to contest unfairly in Rivers State. No we didn’t adopt AAC; we simply were not part of the gov- ernorship election. What happen last time was whether what he (Amaechi ) did amounted to anti-party activities and I said No because they have not denied any of our candidates anything in Rivers State. So, Iseparated what had happened in Rivers from Ogun and Imo where we had our own candidates and our own members work against our own candidates and worked for some other candidates. It is different in Rivers. Whatever lo- cal arrangement they had there in Rivers we were not aware of it, we were not part of it. I’m sure you didn’t see anybody there cam- paigning for anybody outside of APC. In case the governor-elect is indicted on the alleged scandal against him now, what would APC do? See, there is no any scandal. You see, APC is a party of due process. Once you comply with your one rules, things become easy for you. We have a process and they (the then governorship aspirants) went through the right process. We are confident and completely certain that our gov- ernor-elect has nothing to hide. The certificates are genuine. So, those who are involving in that an- tics… You see, it is laughable that of all things, they cannot come out to say the election was rigged because they were trapped even beyond their own imagination. So, may be they could use something from that to say that they have something to go to tribunal, so at least they can’t just walk away but they need to wake up and face the reality of that defeat, it is an eter- nal defeat, it is total. What is the chance of your party ahead of 2023? The chances are even now brighter. You know why? Nigeri- ans have shown that they have also come of age that no matter who you are, see what happened in Kwara State for instance, with behemoth status of somebody like Bukola Saraki whose opponent’s results nearly doubled his own. Not a single person was slapped. He couldn’t even go to tribunal to protest. The only way this could happen was because voters have come up of age, and they now look at performance unlike sentiments that they’ve been following. You knew what a lot of cler- gies did. And election this time around, you could not say it went along divides, No! In most cases, voters passed judgment based on performance. We now know that the only way for us in 2023 is to ensure that we have credible performance, which Nigerians can still claim that we have clearly done so well, that they can’t take the risk of not voting for us. So, we will be facing Nigerians in 2023 and we want to be judged based on performance.