ABUJA – The Federal Government has settled for a fresh $247.3 million loan to finance power, rail and road transport projects in different parts of the country. Giving a hint of the development, Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, said the first loan of $150 million to be obtained from the African Development Bank (AfDB) and another $50 million from African Grow Together Fund would be used to finance rural electrification projects. She explained that the rural electrification project is a nationwide initiative which would be beneficial to at least eight universities and 20,000 small and micro-business enterprises, adding that when the project is implemented, it would grant 500,000 persons access to electricity. She explained that the council considered $640 million concessionary loan involving five countries for the creation of regional power project to connect five West African countries with Nigeria’s portion of the loan being $27.3 million. The minister listed parties to the power project to include Nigeria, Togo, Benin Republic, Niger and Bukina Faso, noting that five countries would be connected with high voltage of 330 kilowatts to facilitate energy trade among them. She also said the council approved yet another $20 million loan facility from France Development Agency for Lagos State to finance strategic transport project, which she said would be technologically-inclined that would offer 1.8 million people the opportunity to board quality buses with 1.5 million people to benefit every day. Ahmed said, “Council approved three memos for Ministry of Finance. First, it approved $150 million loan facility from African Development Bank and $50 million loan from African Grow Together Fund to finance the Nigeria electrification project. The project is a nationwide initiative to be implemented by the Rural Electrification Agency. “The project aligns with the strategy of the Federal Government on electrifying rural community. The project has four components. The first is a solar hybrid mini-grid for rural economic development, the second is productive appliances equipment for off-grid communities and the third is energising education while the fourth component is institutional capacity building. “The impact of the project when fully implemented, about 500,000 people will be able to have access to electricity for about 105,000 households. The maximum power that will be generated will be 76.5 megawatts installed generating capacity part of which is 68,000 megawatts of solar. Eight universities will benefit from this scheme and about 20,000 small, micro, medium enterprises across different communities in the nation. “The second approval is the North core regional transmission project. This is a project that is part of the pipeline for the West Africa power pool priority projects. The intention is for the creation of regional power pool in the region of West Africa. The post project aims to connect Nigeria, Niger, Benin Republic, Togo, and Burkina Faso with a high voltage 330 kilowatts transmission line to facilitate energy trade amongst participants. “The project is in the total sum of $640 million out of which each of the five countries involved has a component. Nigeria has the smallest component in this pact which is a total loan of $27.3 million IADE  facility. It is a concessionary loan. This is a loan that the four countries are taking together. The other four countries have concluded theirs. This is one of the final stages for Nigeria to conclude its process.” “The third load approval is $20 million, for the Lagos State Strategic Transport Master Plan. This facility is from the French Development Agency. The objective of the project is to improve the living conditions of the inhabitants of Lagos urban area and to promote urban development sitting by efficient and effective transport system.” She said that the project has two major components, first is to rehabilitate urban roads and the creation of minimum of eight equality bus corridors and the creation of two multi-model inter-changes at Marina and Mile 2. “The second objective is to provide technical support for implementation and management. When completed, the project is expected to impact 1.8 million inhabitants of Lagos State and accumulative 1.5 million users per day for inter-model inter-changes with about 620,000 boarding at Mile 2 and 480,000 boarding at Marina. Another estimated 630,000 boarding at TBS,” she added. The minister said that the project is being undertaken by Lagos State agency, LAMATA, under its own strategy. “So, the Federal Government is borrowing to lend to Lagos following the same terms and conditions that we signed. Our assessment is that Lagos State has the capacity to repay the loan,” she stated. Meanwhile, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation, has said that the council approved amendments to an earlier $8.7 billion loan to finance Ibadan – Osogbo – Abuja rail line and Minna – Kaduna – Kaduna – Kano rail line. The minister who said whereas Ekiti was not factored into the project, additional rail line from Ibadan – Ekiti which would be included, would cost $500 million. He also said the council approved N474.4 million for the purchase of 22 vehicles for the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority. Amaechi said, “The Ministry of Transport presented two memos and both of them were approved. The first one was an amendment to an earlier approval. There was an approval of $8.7 billion for Ibadan-Kano-Oshogbo-Minna-Abuja rail line and Minna-Kaduna-Kaduna-Kano. What we sought for was the variation because the financing authority wanted to find just $5.7 billion. We needed approval to negotiate the remainder as a commercial loan. “Again, the president also approved that we add Oshogbo – Ekiti as part of the construction. It was not there earlier. That will cost us a total of $500 million. “The next one was approval for N474.4 million for the purchase of 22 operational vehicles for the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority. There will be two Hiace vehicles and 21 others.”