Oloye Gboyega Adeniji is Lagos State chairman of the Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) and Secretary General, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). In this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, he spoke on the recently held general elections, as well as the use of soldiers during elections. Excerpts: What lesson do you think could be learnt from the recently held general elections? This election is the worst I have witnessed in Nigeria. We should be progressing politically on the pillars of democracy, which is rule of law and integrity of the ballot and our ability and freedom to vote. However, this last election conducted under the All Progressives Congress (APC) was a dent on our democracy. If we don’t correct it, we would be heading towards a fascist government because it was very obvious. For example, in Lagos State, we had more than five million registered voters with Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) and only one million came out to vote. The big question is: Why? It was so because people did not trust the integrity of the ballot. They think it is a waste of time. Another reason is that people were intimidated. Those who had the courage to come out were intimidated. They were not allowed to vote according to their choice. Voters were offered money and if they rejected, they would force them or drive them away from the polling zones. It is very evident that those who wanted to vote were prevented. Oshodi and Isolo Local Governments were very good examples. Some polling units were removed from their traditional areas and taken into estates where you would have to be checked by security to be allowed in. A voting point on Gerald Road was moved to Osborne Foreshore. The polling unit had I,080 registered voters and we traced it, and by the time we got there, only 110 people voted. The voting point in front of Obanikoro’s house on Gerald Road had only presidential ballot papers available, none for House of Representatives. It was a deliberate bridge of the integrity of the ballot. It was the worst election that I have ever witnessed in Lagos. You can also see what has happened in other states, Kano, Adamawa, Benue, even the Boko Haram states. The APC has proved to be desperate to be in power. If the government of Goodluck Jonathan had behaved the same way, Buhari wouldn’t have been President. We are not surprised because Muhammadu Buhari is not a democrat. He has shown to be a pseudo democrat. He pretended to be a democrat and got power. This is a very serious abuse of office. Thank God that European Union (EU) and international observers have said their views, that the 2019 was a sham, too low, below standard to be rated as free and fair. It was reported that at Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) party agents noticed that election materials were not complete. Could that be the cause of the inadequate materials? The Independent National Electoral commission (INEC) is a flop. Its Department of Logistics deliberately messed things up in distributing election materials. We knew the number of times we went to CBN and from there, they sent us back to INEC’s office. This is not the first time that we would have elections in Lagos. INEC of 2019 was so disorganised. I don’t believe it was shortage of materials. I believe it was sabotage. At that particular polling point that I mentioned, I called the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC). He called the Electoral Officer (EO); he came, there were still issues. The result sheet was brought at 8.pm. It was only presidential that was recorded. Only one booklet was brought for the Senate and only 100 people voted, while they were more than 200 there. We had to stop them from recording that. People were disenfranchised. For House of Representatives, there were no ballot papers at all. It was a conspiracy between the ruling party and INEC to render the integrity of the ballot useless. Having noted much abuse, what do you think is the way forward for Nigeria as regards elections? The way forward for us as a nation is for our leaders to think less of themselves, realise that they are there to serve humanity and that this service is not for today, but leave good legacy for our children. You can see the wide gap between literacy level in the North and South. Northerners have ruled us for 40 years out of about 60 years of independence, yet their people are the most educationally backward, poor and don’t have the mind of their own. Once an influential leader tells them to kill, they would proceed to kill everyone. Education liberates the mind. They refused to give them education so they would continue to manipulate them to scuttle the progress of Nigeria. It is for this reason that our president had refused to sign an Electoral Act that would have prevented all the mess in the last election. He did not sign it for his personal interest. He said it was too late. They wanted to rig and manipulate the election and they did it so glaringly without shame. It was so unfortunate that we would have this crop of leaders in Nigeria in the 21st century. The Ajaokuta Steel Mill Bill, he refuses to sign. Nigeria after 60 years has iron ore, but cannot produce steel. They let it rot for us to start all over again. Our leaders are imperialists’ agents. They are maintaining the status quo that Nigeria should continue to be a trading port; people would bring their produce here and take our raw materials. They are serving the interest of foreigners, that is why we have crude oil, but cannot refine it. Buhari is in charge petroleum as a president for years and we cannot have a functional refinery. They are preparing the ground for revolution. What we are strategising is to ensure that the revolution is bloodless, because, it is possible to have a bloodless revolution. Unfortunately, our brothers from the far North refuse to educate their people so that they can continue to be docile. In this 21st Century people are still following cattle, calling themselves herdsmen. Internationally, Nigeria’s cattle is the moist malnourished because of stress of walking many miles. Could you comment on the victory of Nyesom Wike of Rivers State after a very long struggle? It is a well deserved victory. You could see the wrath in Nigerian Army during that election, a confirmation that it is peopled by bandits. Chief of Army Staff told us that those people were fake soldiers. So, why didn’t they arrest them. We thank God that they didn’t get their way there. It is unfortunate that Amaechi is a minister in this country and Buhari may be prepared to allow him another term. A confirmation of what the vice president said about Buhari being intellectually poorer. He was not speaking about poverty in terms of money, but poverty intellectually. Recently, he said that the clinic in Aso Rock would be for himself, his family and that of Osinbajo. What happens to the other staff? We thank God that the people of Rivers refused to be intimidated by tyranny. Lagos lawyer, Monday Ubani, reportedly collapsed in court after being detained by EFCC. Do you think that EFCC erred by keeping him in its facility without charging him to court? Monday Ubani is a comrade and a very good friend. He is a member of Movement for Fundamental Change in Nigeria, including Femi Falana, Malachy Ugwumadu and a host of others. More than 200 Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and activists formed the movement. It is exactly what I have been saying.  The EFCC should have been civil in dealing with Nigerians. You stood surety for someone who is at large, good. Why detain him? Take him to court. The court should determine his case. As a minister in the temple of justice, as a friend of the court, there are professional ethics that should bind everybody in every profession. If he has done anything wrong within that ethics, there should be sanctions. Keeping him in their custody is a fascist tendency. It is uncivilised of any security outfit. To detain someday for more than 24 hours is an infringement on his right. It is selfish, ungodly and shameless of them. If they have any shame, they should just resign.