Lagos – The Federal Capital Territory, Abuja is agog in anticipation of the arrival of the FIFA Women’s World Cup trophy, which is expected on Thursday. The Women’s World Cup trophy’s stop-over is coming 13 months after the FIFA World Cup trophy (for men) also made a stop in Nigeria ahead of last year’s FIFA World Cup finals in Russia. FIFA has informed the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) that former Nigeria international striker, Osaze Peter Odemwingie, who is one of the FIFA Legends for this year’s World Cup finals in France, will arrive Nigeria on Wednesday (today) morning, with three other FIFA officials due in the country hours later. Nicole Fisch (lead for women’s football project), Sarai Bareman (chief women’s football officer) and Vanessa Marques (lead for marketing project) are the FIFA officials expected on Wednesday. After a special welcome at the Office of the Minister of Youth and Sports on Thursday morning, the FIFA team alongside Ministry and NFF officials will move to the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja for the display of the trophy, for which the best 24 women national teams in the world will battle in nine cities in France, June7 to July 7, 2019. At the Transcorp Hilton, there will be a video documentary on the evolution of women football in Nigeria, an address by the President of Nigeria Football Federation and FIFA’s perspective on women football, before individuals will have opportunity to take photos with the trophy. Meanwhile, Desire Oparanozie, who gave the Super Falcons of Nigeria a first-half lead in the World Cup warm-up against Canada on Monday in Spain which Nigeria lost 2-1, took positives from the match. “It wasn’t the result we had hoped for, but we will keep working hard. Lots of positives to take away from this game. We work on despite the 2 – 1 defeat against Canada,” She tweeted. Super Falcons defender, Nome Ebi remains undaunted and believes the team would keep working hard ahead of the Women’s World Cup in the summer. “I’ll always appreciate this time, thank you all for your support as we will keep fighting and working hard to be better” said Ebi.