The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has moved to pro- vide support for former Nigeria captain and coach, Christian Chukwu to overcome his present health challenges and get back on his feet soonest. President of the NFF, Mr. Amaju Pinnick, who is in the United Kingdom, told thenff. com on Sunday that he has mandated the Chairman of Enugu State Football Asso- ciation and Member of the NFF Executive Committee, Hon. Chidi Ofo Okenwa to pay a visit to the 1980 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) winning team captain and get the details of his challeng- es and what needs to be done to return him to good health. “I am not in Nigeria pres- ently but I have asked the NFF Acting President, Barr. Seyi Akinwunmi to take full charge and ensure that this matter is treated promptly. It was for this kind of develop- ment that I spoke about the welfare foundation for our legends at the 2nd Aiteo/ NFF Awards in Lagos on April 1, 2019. “The NFF would always be there to lend support to our legends in their hour of need,” Pinnick said. The NFF President, who is also 1st Vice President of CAF and President of AFCON, is on his way to Cairo, Egypt for final inspection of facil- ities for this year’s AFCON finals, as well as meetings of the AFCON organizing com- mittee and CAF Exco ahead of Friday’s draw ceremony for the championship. Early reports on the health challenges of the former Nigeria defence stalwart indicated that there is need to raise the sum of $50,000 for his round trip to the United States of Ameri- ca, surgery, medication and general after-surgery care. A patron of Chukwu’s former club, Enugu Rangers FC, Mr. Benson Ezeomeogo Ejindu made this known in a Facebook post seeking to raise funds for the legend. Chukwu captained the senior national team of Ni- geria as they won their first ever AFCON title in 1980, re- ceiving the brand new Uni- ty Cup from then President Shehu Shagari. He also cap- tained the Enugu Rangers FC team that won the Africa Cup Winners’ Cup in 1977. Nicknamed ‘Chairman’ for the authority he exuded as he marshalled the defence and launched onslaughts on the opposition defence for club and country, Chuk- wu also served as assistant coach of the first team to win a FIFA World Cup tro- phy for Nigeria the Golden Eaglets that triumphed at the FIFA U16 World Cup in China in 1985.
He was also assistant coach of the team widely known as the Golden Gener- ation the 1994 Class of Super Eagles that qualified Nige- ria for her first FIFA World Cup finals, won the AFCON title and reached the Round of 16 at the FIFA World Cup in America.