Very little was known about him before 1993, when he took a bunch of young players to the FIFA U-17 World Youth Championship (WYC) and returned with the trophy. Since then, he has become a household name in Nigerian football. Take it or leave it, Coach Fanny Ikhayere Amun, Member Order of the Niger (MON), is a force to reckon with when it comes to football issues in the country, to the former Secretary General of the then Nigeria Football Association (NFA). He used to be a footballer. Then he made the seamless transition to being the coach of the national football team.He also worked in the Federal Ministry of Sports and retired as an assistant director in 2007.  Noted for his ever stern disposition on football matters, Amun, who in this interview with our DEPUTY SPORT EDITOR, AYO BADA, bares his mind on some national issues but reserved comments on the chances of the Super Eagles at the forthcoming 32nd Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) billed for Egypt. Excerpts: How was it during your childhood days? I was born in Osogbo, Osun State (then Oyo State) raised there but was always in Uromi, Edo State, for holidays. Being born in Osogbo influenced my language acquisition because I speak indigenous Yoruba language even more than those from the place. I had always been the exceptional child of the family. My father had 17 children and wanted me to be an engineer. When he told me, I said I wanted to be a civil engineer and later I told him I was not interested in engineering. He was really furious and wanted to send me to live with my uncle in Uromi, who was a pharmacist. Though comfortable, my father wanted us to be educated. When his second son told him he had a calling to be a pastor, he kicked against it and declared that he must be an accountant. For me, I had always wanted to be different. Then, they would sow same clothes for all of us but I would decline that I would wear something different. Maybe my stubbornness paid off because I could not have been where I am today without the trait. I was a child of circumstance because by age 17, I left my father’s house and discovered my passion for football. Anytime I went to Uromi, I was always in my uncle’s pharmacy and opposite it was a football pitch. Whenever it was break time, I would be on the pitch with other boys and I remember a day when an argument ensued amongst them, I was able to resolve it and started lecturing them on football. Then, there was nothing like playing for money, it was a passion and I went for it despite my father’s refusal. Since then, I never looked back on football. Recently, the National Institute for Sports (NIS) celebrated its silver jubilee and you delivered a paper during the event. As a product of the institute, how do you see the institute now? The NIS has come a long way and has also churned out good products of which I am one. There is no doubt that the institute has improved from what it used to be in the past but the management now should be ingenious in generating its own revenue, instead of depending totally on the government for its budgetary allocation. How? The management should increase its budgetary allocation and staff overhead and emulate other organisations that are ingenious in funding themselves. If Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) can generate funds on their own and make money, NIS can do so too. Another avenue through which the institute could generate revenue is by partnering various corporate organisations. And in doing this, the management should pursue the accreditation of NIS vigorously, as this would be a springboard for growth. You retired so early from the Ministry of Sports at age 45. Why? When I was coming into the service, I didn’t inform anybody, so why do I have to explain to anybody why I retired? Well, I thought I should leave and I left. If I had stayed too long in service the retirement age is 60 with all my achievements, I would have stalled and constitute a nuisance to the community that made me. Already, some have constituted nuisance in sports and I don’t want that to happen to me. I have always been lucky doing things early in life – I was a youthful player, went into coaching too early in life while many of my colleagues were playing for clubs. Now that I am retired, they are just doing what I did years ago. I left the coaching business in 1998 after 17 years in the national teams; was Secretary General of the Nigerian Football Association (NFA) for two years and a month; assistant director for almost five years and I retired voluntarily. For my contemporaries still in that business, I pray they benefit from it. Are you a successful coach? Why not?. My coaching career was a successful one and I thank God. How does one measure success? If I took a team to play a 100 times and they won 99 times, then I am successful. Whenever some critics condemn players and coaches because they lost some matches, my reaction is this: compare football with your job. You can’t sit at home or in the club watching football and castigate players or coaches. Fortunately, I retired hale, hearty and I am a beneficiary of government programmes. I am lucky to have left early to take good care of myself and I am quite mindful of my health. You are one of the dignitaries at the ‘Celebration of Life and Time’ of Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi in Ibadan. How can you describe him? First and foremost, he was a man of many parts. A kind person, a former player, an astute administrator, former scribe of the nation’s football house, former board member of the nation’s football house and a philanthropist that is rare to find. He was a success story. An amiable human being. I am yet to see anybody that will say Taiwo look at him and says anything that is uncomplimentary. You cannot predict him. I was very close to him because of my relationship with his late brother in the military but job nearly separated us, but then we were able to manage it. In a nutshell, Ogunjobi was a nice man to a fault and we will all miss him and his wealth of experience. And do you think he should be immortalized? I do not agree with the views of a lot of people when someone close or nice to them is dead.  They would make comments and promises heaven and earth but once the body is laid to rest, they forget all they’ve said.But for me, nothing is too much for him but it all depends on what is available. The programme put together for him in Ibadan prior to his final journey home was more honourable than promises from all quarters. For instance, I came back from United States just to honour him and pay my last respect to him. In a communiqué issued at the end of its Executive Committee meeting in Asaba, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) endorsed that the Mini-Secretariat being constructed for the Osun State Football Association (OSFA) in Osogbo should be named after him. What is your view? Will my view change anything? A pronouncement has been made and it has been endorsed so my view will hold no water. But as I said earlier, nothing will be too much to honour late Taiwo Ogunjobi.  He died as the chairman of the OSFA. If that is what the NFF has decided to do, so be it. I think they can still do more, like I said; nothing will be too much to honour him. The Super Eagles have qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) billed for Egypt this summer. What are the chances of the team? No comment. No comment as in… (Cuts in) I said no comment. I have decided long ago not to talk on the team and I still stand by my decision. Okay. What is your view on football generally in the country? No comment on that too. Sir, as a former national team coach and former Secretary General of the nation’s football house, you should….. (Cuts in again) You think you can make me change my mind on not going to make comment on football issues in the country, you cannot. I have said no comment and that means no comment. So don’t force me or push me to say what I do not want to say. What are your leisures? I love clubbing and I can go to five clubs in a day. I like to relax by either dancing, listening to music and whenever I am in Dubai, I am by the beach.