Mr Benedict Ujoatuonu, the Managing Director and Chief Executive of Universal Insurance Plc, in this interaction with CHRIS EBONG, bares his mind on the state of the economy, insurance industry and other contemporary issues. Excerpt: With the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, do you foresee any drastic changes in the fiscal policies of his administration’s new tenure and what are your expectations from this government in another four years? For me, I do not see any serious changes to draw inference from the last four years of the outgoing tenure. I don’t see any dramatic change in his policy decisions but there may be an improvement by trying to correct some of his mistakes or errors of the past in this tenure. May be there will be a little improvement but I don’t see a drastic deviation from what we had in the past. So what are your expectations in his second tenure? The issue is that the various sectors should be activated so that activities will pick up. If the economy is up and running, operators in the various sectors of the economy will also do more business. I expect to see an active economy that will create room for us to do our businesses in his new tenure. I expect to see an economy that will bring about empowerment to the low level people so that their disposable income will come up and then we will be able to carry out some economic activities. What activates the economy is how economically buoyant the citizens are. If the citizens are buoyant enough they will also activate a lot of economic activities from their end and that will impact on all organisations within the economy. So, I look forward to a situation, in this tenure, where the government in this new dispensation will look at how to empower the masses because that is where major population of the country. Once that level of people is empowered and they are economically vibrant the economy will certainly develop. The Monetary Policy Committee of the Central Bank of Nigeria came out of the meeting on recently to announce a slash in interest rate from 14 to 13.5per cent, how is this going to impact on the economy? It’s a good omen but it has not gotten to a level of one digit interest rate that we are looking at and that would have reduced the cost of everything in terms of running businesses and cost of borrowing. And it would also make it possible for people to access funds and increase a lot of economic activities both at small and medium scale levels. If these things are done you will see that the economy will certainly bounce back. What they have done is certainly a good omen but I expect that we can do better. We have seen a situation where a lot of Nigerian companies are accessing international funds at one digit interest rate. So in as much as it is good, it attracts funds into the economy but we can also activate our economy to grow by looking forward to a level where people can access funds at lesser interest rates. Don’t you think that the deduction in interest rate may end up propelling inflation in the economy given the Nigerian situation? I don’t think so. It is a good omen. Recall that sometimes in the past, the MPR was about 12 per cent and from there we got to 14 per cent. So I don’t think that it would trigger inflation. We pray that the rate should come down first. The Nigerian fiscal policies are evolving around borrowing and it’s like we are having too much debt burden on our heads, what is your take on this? My take is that borrowing is not bad but what you do with what you borrow is the issue. How do you use that to activate the economy? Is the economy vibrant enough for you to be able to pay back what you’ve borrowed? So, if we borrow to create infrastructures that will create enabling environment and grow the economy and makes it vibrant for citizens to be able to perform their roles in the economic development thereby directly or indirectly increase revenue to the government and make it possible for the government to repay what it borrowed, there is no problem but if you borrow to repay recurrent expenses, that is where the problem is. Then it means you are piling up debts for children yet unborn (Quote  1). So I am not averse to borrowing but it is important that we understand where what we borrow is going into, are we creating wealth with what we are borrowing. What is your take on the N8.3 trillion federal budgets and how do you think these huge funds are disbursed to impact positively on the common man on the streets of Nigeria? My only problem with the N8.3trillion budgets is that the bulk of our budgets go to recurrent and debt servicing rather than the capital expenditures. Until we begin to budget more into capital expenditure and ensure that our budgets perform up to 70 to 75 per cent or 80 per cent in which case we see that what is budgeted in those areas are used to generate the required infrastructures and wealth, that is the only way the economy will begin to pick. Even though we do N20trillion budget and 75 per cent of it goes to recurrent and debt servicing we still have not made any improvement. That is why we still have a lot of decayed infrastructures irrespective of how much have been budgeted in the past. That is why we don’t have functional health institutions and people still go abroad for medical attention, which is why our universities and educational institutions are still in very sorry states. A lot of infrastructures are in decayed situation irrespective of the level of amount of monies budgeted because enough has not been put into those areas, the power generation and the rest of them. Power generation is in its dismal situation, people still burn diesels, costs of production and doing businesses are still on the high side. Micro businesses cannot pick up because of power. So, it is not about the quantum of budget but for me, what are the allocations into these budgets. Cost of governance is still high in this country. So, that aspect should be looked into so that we have more funds to put into the necessary areas and over a period of time you begin to see the impact and effect. What are your expectations of the incoming government in terms of change in policy directions and of course, as it has to do with insurance? One can only appeal to politicians-elect… to take insurance seriously and understand that it is one of the tools government should use to grow the economy and make it vibrant and take it seriously and ensure that assets and liabilities of the government institutions, agencies and parastatals are insured and when they are insured they should pay for them. I also appeal to the states’ governments that have not been taking insurance seriously in the past to begin to think about insurance and ensure that they pay their premium in order to get value of the service. It’s only an appeal. Recently CEOs retreat was organized by the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) and one of the issues on the front burner was self-regulation among others, how are the outcomes of that meeting going to impact on the operations of the companies across the industry this year? Of course, if you want your business to grow you have to set a model and template that will carry you in doing business. I believe in the issue of self-regulation as the only way the industry will stand. Not until operators begin to say that this is the limit beyond which we can go in all the things, in terms of doing the proper things, in terms of corporate governance, in terms of everything that surrounds operation of business, you can’t get it right. Coercion cannot take us too far, we have to build a culture of self-discipline and prudence, self-determination and self-esteem and sustain it. Definitely, it would impact positively on our business. How would you assess the industry performance in 2018 and also the first quarter of 2019? Well, I have not critically looked at the data to talk in absolute terms. But what I can tell you is that the industry is improving by the day in terms of meeting obligations and premium generation but we’ve not reached to where we need to be, there is still room for improvement and I feel that every individual organisation is striving to look at what has to be done in that direction. More effort should be geared towards personal lines and microinsurance in ensuring that the vision of financial inclusion as it affects insurances is actualised. I believe that is one of the areas that will increase the growth of insurance industry and the companies operating in the industry. How was Universal Insurance performance in 2018 to date? Well, about the performance our detailed account for 2018 is getting ready. So we will speak in details with absolute figures when the auditors roll it out finally. From what I know 2018 was better than 2017 in terms of numbers. We were able to grow the premium income by over 130 per cent from N700million in 2017 to over N1.6billion in 2018 and we also posted profits back to back. That’s why I say that when the report comes out we will know the absolute numbers for 2018. Then 2019, we are moving on though it’s not been easy but we are pushing on. But what I can tell you is that the first quarter is ending and so far the numbers we have in first quarter is also far beyond what we had in 2017. That also points to the fact that we are pushing on. We have intention of doing better than what we did in 2018 in 2019. Part of what we have done is that we have developed a full-fledged retail unit with requisite qualified personnel to man it. And we are also expanding our marketing unit. We are engaging more hands in both our core marketing and retail units. In marketing we are engaging seven more hands to expand our market in terms of business generation apart from what comes in from the retail line. Also we are expanding our eplatform. So, we expect that 2019 is going to be far better than 2018 in the course of time. Talking about the account have you been able to comply with the IFRS 9? Yes, we are also engaging on that. We have just appointed a professional consultant to advise us on how to comply. We are complying and not deferring. So we are working with professionals to help us ensure that our account is IFRS 9 compliance. Do we expect your 2018 account to be IFRS 9 compliance? Yes, that is why I am saying that we are not deferring. What are the new products that you have initiated into the market? We are working on them. I am not going to talk about them now until we finish and get approval from the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). So I can’t discuss that now but there is a lot in the pipeline. What have you been able to do in terms of capital injection as it is already looming within the industry? The board is actually working on that but until it is actualized I cannot say anything about it. But there is that plan to raise the capital. Like how much are you looking at? I can only tell you that the template we are looking at is that of the suspended Tier-Based which the board had an idea that we should push up to play in Tier 1 and the level of capital that will require us to be there is contemplated. Are there other new things from your company that you would like to share with us? I have already highlighted some of the things that we have done so far especially in the retail line of business, getting more hands and developing that area of business, making our eplatform robust and engaging more hands and expanding our marketing scope. We also intend to open more branches this year, 2019 beyond what we presently have. How many more are you looking at? We are looking at minimum of two, and somewhere in the north and down south. What would you like to tell your clients about the renewed Universal Insurance Plc I want to tell our clients that our word remains our bond. We are poised to give them the best of services and ensure that we stand by them at any point in time when the needed arises. Insurance is only product you buy when you don’t need it. We assure them that we will stand with them when they need the services. So, whatever their insurance issues they need they should talk to us at Universal Insurance across the country where we have our offices and we will give them the required services. You have done about five years on this saddle, am I right? More than Can you tell us what you have been able to achieve during this period and your future plans? For me being on this seat this while has been challenging. I took over this office when the premium was N250million and we have been able to grow it to the level that we are now and still aspiring higher. We relocated our head office to this place. We have established new branches also; we have consistently posted profits so we have also made Universal Insurance a known brand that people want to do business with and we are looking forward to improving on that. For 2019, we have a budget production target of N3.5billion and we are very optimistic that with the work we have put in place we will be able to achieve that. So far, so good there are still rooms for improvement. How stable is Universal Insurance? We are very stable, that I can tell you. We meet obligations as at when due. What is your claims settlement record like in 2017 and 2018? In 2017 if you check our account I think it was well over N400million and in 2018 we can talk figures in absolute terms so that I do not give you wrong information. Your projection for Universal Insurance In another five years…? In the next five years my projection and my position is that I want to see Universal among the first ten insurance firms in the country, providing the best of services that meet the need of our people as well as deepening insurance penetration through the grassroots. That is where we have a target of building our retail max. We want to see that we pick insurances from rather than looking forward for it to grow rather than looking forward for it to grow retail ends not really looking at all the corporates.