Nigeria has suffered major economic setbacks due to smuggling of foreign goods into the country. This has impacted negatively on local industries, led to unemployment and killing agro-based industries. In this report, BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKECHI NZEAKO, take a look at smuggling of foreign parboiled rice into the country, its negative economic impact, reasons smugglers continue thrive in the business and way out. The massive smuggling of rice, a major staple food to Nigerians, into the country is seen as an economic sabotage, as the act by unscrupulous smugglers is not only shortchanging the country in revenue terms, but also killing local manufacturing industries, and causing high level of unemployment. Towards the end of 2018, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said that a total of 238,094 x 50 kilogrammes of rice were seized between January and November last year. The service Public Relations Officer, Joseph Attah, a Deputy Controller (DC), who disclosed this at the end of the year breakfast meeting, noted that the service recorded 4,010 seizures within that period with a Duty Paid Value of N40 billion. The customs image-maker also pointed out that smuggling remained the most challenging aspect of the service’s functions as different people saw anti-smuggling operations differently. “Regrettably, many people still see smuggling as business, not crime. In fact, smuggling is not just a crime, but the mother of many crimes and criminality,” he asserted, adding that violent crimes are perpetrated with dangerous items such as arms and drugs smuggled into the country. At the Federal Operations Unit, Zone ‘A’ of the service with the headquarters in Lagos alone, 88,530 bags x 50kg and 51 bags x 25kg of foreign parboiled rice were seized in 2018. The Duty Paid Value (DPV) of the rice was put at N1,173,532,119. The Unit made 189 arrests in respect of the seizure. The unit in January 2019 seized 5,949 bags of rice with DPV of N78,837,932:00, while 6,581 bags with DPV of N87,213,385 was recorded as rice seizures in February. In Seme Command of the service, between February and  March 20, 2019, the service recorded seizure of 4745 x 50kg bags of rice, equivalent to eight trailer-load with Duty Paid Value of N85,504,000:00. At Idoroko Command in Ogun State, the service between January and March 2019, seized 12,720 bags of foreign rice. Investigations revealed that rice smuggling into Nigeria is a very persistent occurrence, which defies the present solutions proffered by the Federal Government. This is because Nigeria has not been able to competitively grow local rice in a way and manner that will reduce the influx of foreign grown rice into the country. Further investigations have shown that landing cost for rice in a country like Benin Republic is hovering at about N5,000 and N6,000 per bag. So, even if the rice is smuggled into Nigeria, without payment of duty, and the operatives of NCS seize half of the smuggled rice, the smugglers will still make their profits, because they are selling at almost 100 per cent of the amount they bought in Benin Republic. This is to say that if they are smuggling in 1,000 bags, for instance and they lose 500 bags to customs, they make profit on the remaining 500 bags, so instead of being demoralised, they are ready to take another risk of going back to smuggle for a second time. Rice smuggling also persists because local rice production has not been able to meet up with the price competition. Local rice comes at between N20,000 to 22,000 per 50 kg bag and foreign rice sells for about N13,000 to N14,000 per bag. At the retail price, local rice is sold for N450 to N500 per Derica cup, while foreign rice sells for between N230 to N260 per Derica cup. “So you can see the challenge we face as a country,” said Mrs. Mary James, a trader. A source disclosed that customs warehouses in Ogun State are filled with rice. “The officers’ mess in Idi- Iroko is totally filled with seized rice. They don’t have spaces to do meetings because they have used part of their offices to store rice. Even after that, more rice are still coming, this is a command that last month, gave out 7,000 bags of rice to orphans, through a sub-committee set up by the comptroller of customs, Col. Hammed Ali (Retd), after the evacuation of the 7,000 bag, they still have rice stored. “In all the warehouses and officers’ mess, no space for storage of rice and more rice are coming in,” an insider who does not want his name in print told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT So, with this, one can say that Nigeria is being fought economically by countries like Thailand, India and other countries who have seen export of rice to Nigeria as a gold mine. To worsen the matter, neighboring countries are not helping matters; they have opened up their ports, to receive this rice, even when they know that Nigeria banned rice importation through land borders. These countries desperately encourage businessmen and women that will use their ports to smuggle the rice into Nigeria by any means possible. “So, smuggling of rice is an endemic challenge that does not look like what will solve so soon,” another source said. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT investigation also revealed that the major routes used for rice smuggling into the country are very numerous. Apart from the approved border posts, there are villages, bush parts, and even waterway, which the smugglers of rice use. Rice is being smuggled into Nigeria from Duala port in Cameroon, through the creeks of Calabar and Akwa Ibom states, There are land border connections between Cross River State and Republic of Cameroon, these places, it was revealed are not properly manned and rice smuggling takes place massively there. Coming to the Southwest, Nigeria has boundaries with Benin Republic through Lagos, Ogun, Oyo and Kwara States. Chikanda border in Kwara, the Seme border, the Idi-Iroko border, the Shaki border in Oyo. A part from the approved borders, all these borders have adjoining bush parts that link Nigeria with Benin Republic and rice comes in through all these places. That is why we have massive seizures of rice in Oyo, Ogun, Kwara, Lagos states. All these are from Benin Republic. It was discovered that right from the days that Nigeria did not ban rice importation through land borders, ships bringing rice into Benin Republic for Nigerian consumption are still bringing them. “As we speak now, rice to be smuggled into Nigeria are arriving Benin Republic,” an importer, who chose anonymity told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT. The smugglers are always waiting for the right time to strike. Even when they lose 50% of their wares, they are not running at a loss because, like earlier mentioned, the landing cost of the rice is such that if they lose over half of what they wanted to bring in, they will still make profit and go back again. Some stakeholders argue that the challenger is beyond the Nigeria Customs Service in the sense that the service is only enforcing government policies, but the government should bear the blame. “There is nothing customs can do other than what they are doing. That is implementing government policies,” a maritime expert said. “The seizures are evidence. Just last two weeks, the customs recorded over 52,000 bags of seized rice given out to the orphanages and the rice is still everywhere, more is still coming in, one orphan was given as many as five bags, they count the orphans per orphanages, giving each person five bags of rice, saying they will seize more and feed orphans,” he stated. The Federal Government, according to the Bank of Agriculture (BoA) has saved about $800 million by encouraging local production of rice in the country and this will also help to prevent smuggling of the products into the country. Niyi Akenzua, the Executive Director, Finance and Risk Management, BoA, while commending the Federal Government’s rice initiative, noted that the government has put in place necessary policies to diversifying the economy with special focus on agriculture, urging Nigerians to key into the programmes because of their all-round benefits. He said the government restructured the BoA in 2016 to enable it render critical assistance to the agricultural sector in terms of food security and increased export of agro-products to boost the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “The Central Bank of Nigeria facilitated a N250 billion intervention fund for the BoA which is being disbursed through the Anchor Borrower’s Programme. “In 2017, we disbursed about N100 billion to farmers and we have also disbursed about N50 billion so far in 2018,” Akenzua said. He said rice production had increased to a level that people could ever imagine, and that the government was targeting early 2019 to fully stop importation of rice. Akenzua said emphasis was being placed on standardising and packaging of agricultural products from Nigeria to make them acceptable to the export market. Mrs Bola Oyedele from Crenov8 Consulting, said Dubai imported over 100 billion dollars’ worth of food in 2017 from Africa and it is expected to rise to about $400 billion in the next eight years. Oyedele urged Nigeria and other African countries to tap into the huge opportunities that exist to export various agricultural products such as cocoa, rice, gum arabic, palm oil, wheat, and maize among others to Dubai particularly and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, said government’s efforts to boost rice production in the country is yielding result. According to him, at the moment Nigeria has reduced rice importation by 90 per cent, meaning that just a little effort needed to achieve 100 per year. He emphatically said that in two years, Nigeria will exit rice importation. Ogbeh, insisted that Nigeria is going to be self-sufficient in rice production and prices are also expected to fall. However, a peep into the industry in the past indeed shows a fluctuation of the local commodity production to be from 2,400 to 3,600 in the past five years. The import rates have also increased to 5,850 from 4,800 during the same period of time. At the same time, the country is experiencing a rise in consumption rate of the same commodity. Last year, the consumption rate has risen to 7 million Metric Tons according to government statistics with only 2.7 million metric tons produced by Nigerian farmers. In 2016, Nigeria projected to reach 2.7 million metric tons in 2017 if government policy of restricting importation was strictly adhered to. According to the Nigeria rice production statistics, the imports have started to make up 50 per cent of the local consumption rates. However, after a policy turn around towards promoting agriculture, Nigeria has realised an estimated N102.6 billion as revenue from the value of rice produced locally by farmers in 18 states under the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) Anchor Borrower Programme (ABP). According to Growth and Employment in States (GEMS4) report on Nigeria’s rice production from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, a programme funded by the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DfID), titled “Mapping of rice production clusters in Nigeria,” GEMS4 revealed that Nigeria is reaping from the CBN’s Anchor Borrowers Programme and is on the verge of attaining its rice self-sufficiency target this year. A breakdown of the report last year, revealed that the total paddy production in Nigeria in 2016 was estimated at 17,487,562 metric tons, leaving a balance of about 11.4 million metric tons after accounting for 12.4 per cent of rice production wasted due to post-harvest losses. Consequently, this left a total of 5.7 million metric tons of milled rice, bringing Nigeria’s rice production closer to the 7 million projected milled rice requirement for 2016. According to the report, 18 states were selected based on their contribution to national production as per the 2015 Agricultural Production Survey (APS). In those 18 states, rice farming was described as widely spread across 165 clusters and 2,812 sub-clusters. “The 2016 total paddy production estimate is put at 17.5 million tons with a marketing surplus (after post-harvest losses and domestic use) of 11.4 million tons (equivalent to 5.7 million tons milled equivalent), just below the total national demand for rice, which was projected to reach 7 million in 2016. This implies that the country is progressing towards its goal of rice self-sufficiency,” the report stated. Kebbi State led with 3.56 million metric tons for the wet and dry seasons production combined, followed by Kano at 2.82 million metric tons. Kebbi produced 2.05 million metric tons in the wet season and 1.51 million metric tons in the dry season, while Kano produced 1.86 and 0.96 million metric tons during the wet and dry seasons respectively over the same period under review. However, only 10 of the 18 states were involved in the dry season production. According to the study, GEMS4 embarked upon a mapping exercise of rice production clusters through researchers and enumerators’ visits to rice production locations in 18 states, namely: Bauchi, Benue, Ebonyi, Ekiti, FCT, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi and Kogi. Others are Kwara, Nassarawa, Niger, Ogun, Sokoto, Taraba and Zamfara. The researchers, according to the study, expressed optimism that information of paddy production clusters will support the development of supply chains from nearby rice clusters around existing commercial rice mills or proposed new plants in the country. A cluster is an agglomeration of various rice production communities or sub-clusters, located around specific geographic production continuum, sharing some natural resources, such as water and flood plains. Findings by GEMS4 revealed the responses of states to the federal government’s policy goal of reducing import dependence, particularly of rice, which drains about N1 billion daily on importation. The report also noted that 10 per cent of total arable land in Nigeria is used for rice cultivation, although Nigeria is the largest producer of rice in West Africa, it is the second largest importer of rice globally. Analysis of the report indicated a dry season production of 4,646,296.64 metric tons or 26.57 per cent, cultivated on 3,037,324 hectares of farmlands and wet season production of 12,841,265.18 metric tons or 73.43 per cent, cultivated over 859,624 hectares. It also showed that 1.43 million rice farmers were involved in the wet season, representing 17.7 per cent of farming families in the wet season in Nigeria. In the dry season, however, the estimated total number of farmers was 410,210, representing only 5.1 per cent of the total farming families. A conspicuous finding on the average yield per hectare was that the yields during the dry season were consistently and comparatively higher than in wet seasons for all states involved in both wet and dry season cultivation, which opens an area of great prospects for policy intervention in rice production in Nigeria. The average yield per hectare of rice during the wet season was found to be the highest in Ebonyi, at 5.63 metric tons, but lowest in Kwara at 2.68 tons. For the dry season, Niger recorded the highest average yield per hectare of 6.45 metric tons while Kaduna had the least average yield per hectare of 3.5 metric tons. GEMS4 report, however, listed the potential for increasing productivity, pointing out that 13 per cent of farmers reported using high-yielding planting method (transplanting seedlings), while 32 per cent used irrigation and 56 per cent had access to one hectare of additional land. The report listed the challenges observed to include finding that farmers generally reported having difficulties acquiring agro inputs, particularly quality seed and fertiliser and accessing credit. Infrastructure such as irrigation facilities, feeder roads and storage facilities constituted an area of challenge with poor quality or a total lack of it. Others include flooding in wet season, poor access to information on modern methods of farming and post-harvest technologies, poor access to credit, and a loss of labour through migration of young people to cities, resulting in aging farming population. With the quantum of rice seizure and more being seized, one can see that the people shipping and smuggling rice into Nigeria are bent on frustrating the average rice farmer. It would be recalled that the government few years back banned importation of rice through land border, and approved import of same through the sea ports. The essence was to encourage local farmers, so that foreign rice will not stop them from making sales and profits in the country. But what the people observed is that the local rice capacity has not improved. Even when you say, rice can be imported through the port at 100 per cent duty, the one coming in through the borders are suppressing the price of the ones from the ports which are coming with payment of duty. The one from the borders are smuggled in, they do not pay duties. So, people can afford to sell them very cheap. “Smugglers are on the onslaught of the economy. It is not only the farmers that are suffering,” a maritime analyst said. “The rice importers are also suffering. Nigeria has not been able to improve its local rice milling capacity. Nigeria grows rice, but has not been able to do it in such a way that local rice will be completely stone free. So, you can see we are not competing well. Though we have fresher brand, we have healthier brand, but it is not coming in such a way that you can eat a whole bag without eating stones. We have not attained that capacity,” the expert noted, adding that the milling factory set up in Ikorodu by the Lagos State government cannot even mill rice for Lagos alone. He said that Lake rice that the Lagos state government went into partnership to grow with Kebbi State, is not even meeting the local rice capacity. Some stakeholders have said that solution to the incessant rice smuggling should be that the government should employ the requisite technology, such as the machines and will mill rice that will be completely stone-free, government needs to invest much on such machines. Also, the average Nigeria rice farmer should have his produce subsidised for consumption, because nobody will see a locally grown rice for N10,000 and go and buy foreign rice even at N9,000. “Instead of the government to be subsidising fuel which the common man is not benefiting directly, it should subsidise rice which is far better and will address the issue of hunger nationwide. If the government subsidises locally grown rice, the neigbouring countries will stop importing rice, because they know that when you bring it to Nigeria, it will not sell. Thailand will stop attacking Nigeria economically with rice shipment. Reacting to smuggling and efforts of the Customs in tackling it, the Public Relations Officer, Federal Operations Unit, Zone ‘A’ of NCS, Jerry Attah said one of the Service mandate at Federal Operations Unit is anti-smuggling operations, not just about rice alone, but anything that has to do with contraband, or restricted items. “We make sure we enforce it.” He said that the with leadership in FOU, Comptroller Mohammed Aliyu’s leadership skills have helped the Unit in achieving results most especially in interception of foreign parboiled rice. “Since he came on board, he had been able to motivate the officers; this made the officers to put in their best resulting to achievement of better results. He has also tried to fortify the anti-smuggling teams. He had brainstorming sessions, meetings, with all the patrol teams, and has read his riot act to them that all he wants is results and does not want any officer to compromise. The skill to successful leadership here is that if you don’t want people to compromise, you will be able to achieve a good result.” He said with the help of patrol teams and surveillance teams, ”you know we have only two approved border checkpoints,  Gbaji and Agbara in  Ogun axis, we have Ajilete and Papalanto, apart from these two approved checkpoints,  you see patrol and surveillance teams around.” According to the customs image maker, with the support and collaborations of Customs Intelligence Unit, “these are some of the strategies put in place to achieve results.” He said that the Service work with information. “Intelligence gathering, that is where customs Intelligence unit comes in.” Others, he said, are also with the collaboration of other security agencies such as the Nigeria Army, Air Force, Police, Navy and Civil Defence. He noted also, that with their support, the unit was able to achieve better results. He lauded patriotic Nigerians and the media, saying that there are some patriotic Nigerians who have been able to provide intelligence which we profiled and put into used making it possible for us tom achieve the feat we did within this period.