Hon. Felix Hassan Hyat, former Minister for State, Aviation and current Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Kaduna State. He spoke to JULIET OYOYO on the last general elections and the recent crisis in Kaduna State, among other issues. Excerpt: Sir, there are allegations that some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders in Kaduna State during the recent elections, were deeply compromised, leading to its loss at the gubernatorial elections. How would you react to this allegations? Well, there is no election that there will not be accusations and counter accusations. It is a normal process. But, if you look at how the elections took place, you will find out that it was an issue of using security agencies to change the results at the collation centres. Therefore, one cannot say that our stakeholders betrayed the party, but it was more of the activities of INEC and security agencies on ballot box snatching results and changing results. There was bias by INEC and the security agencies. What would our stakeholders have done? Imagine somebody who is in power and state resources and apparatus of government are used to obtain the will of the people. So, I don’t believe that the so-called announced outcome of the results was what really happened. From all indications, we have it from very strong reports and from our various polling units that we won the elections. How could INEC and some people have tampered with the results with the calbre of people in the PDP and heavyweights like Suleiman Hunkuyi, regarded as grassroots politicians? Our politicians are grassroots oriented. The grassroots people gave us the votes. But, these calibre of people do not have authority over the security agencies.  The armed security men were going round from one voting centre to the other. Anywhere the APC lost, they interfered with the result sheets. These things happened both in the presidential and gubernatorial elections. Look at the issue of Kaduna South in particular; Makera Constituency, everybody knows how all these things were done. Also, look at Lere Local Government where soldiers were used to intimidate and harass voters. Same thing applied to Kagarko and Sanga Local government. The whole of Kaduna Central was taken over by armed security people on the pretence that they were going to provide security, whereas they were answerable to government and were used at the Collation Centres. We also have instances where, even the selection of Returning Officers by INEC was purely between the commission and the Government House in Kaduna. We know of a Professor in Zaria who was openly told that his name would not be included because he is PDP. We have all of these information at our disposal. There were insinuations that due to internal division among PDP members, many chose not to support the party, but clandestinely worked for the APC. How would you react to this, especially when some chieftains of the party defected to the APC with their followers at the dying minute? This is why I said earlier that if we had lost elections at the polling unit, then you can say that there was internal wrangling that deprived us of our victory. But, if we won at the units and the results are changed by armed security men in collusion with the INEC officials, then, I do not see any internal wrangling. When you are talking of people like Sani Sidi, we won Kagarko Local government. So, his departure from the party did not affect us in any way because we won in his local government. The fact that he came out to contest the governorship ticket under Kaduna South and we know that he is from Kagarko and he was in Kagarko during the elections and we won there, it simply means that his departure or comments were just a political gimmick normally used by politicians to claim of being heavyweights. I don’t see the weight there. We stand firm that this is what should be done and such must be followed. We won in his ward. So, where is the talk from? Normally, votes are counted at the polling units. But, it was observed that votes were taken to the collation centres where they were counted and announced. Is that the right procedure? That is an act of illegality. We know that by INEC guidelines, there were provisions and this was made clear that votes should be counted, announced and placed on the wall for everybody to see. This was not followed. INEC gave the guidelines, but refused to follow it themselves. If they had followed the guidelines, no security agencies would have had opportunity of changing the results. As a party in Kaduna State, we faced an election where we thought we were going to contest against the APC. But, we ended up going into an election against APC, the government, INEC and security agencies on one side against us, the PDP. Is the PDP contesting the election in court? Yes, the PDP is contesting this in court because, we know we were deprived of our victory. As a strong stakeholder in Kaduna State, how do you see what is happening in Kajuru Local Government area? Many people are keeping quite believing that it is he responsibility of government. What is your reaction to this? You see, this is a very sensitive issue. When you start talking, some people will bring politics into it. The issue of security is very serious and dangerous. As far as I am concerned, the government is handling it badly. I listened to AIT’s chat with Mark Jacobs with the daughter of the Chairman of the Adara Development Association. There is nowhere in a conflict, where there are two sides and all the leaders of only one side are arrested while the leaders from the other side have not even been cautioned. Then, people are asking: What is really happening? Secondly, the local government has its chairman and made it clear during that chat that the genesis was when a Fulani man wanted to rape an Adara woman some few years ago. When he was apprehended, it became a community tussle. So, who started it? Since this started, the governor has not found it necessary to bring all aggrieved persons, including all the religious leaders, together and work on them on  how it all happened and apportion blames where necessary. In a situation where the latest one before the elections, it started in the Adara community, according to the reports which stated that the people of Adara were attacked and between 10 and 11 persons were said to have been killed. The governor did not take any action. So, the people reportedly went on reprisal and it was after that that the governor came out to say that 66 Fulani people were killed. Why did he decide to name Fulani? He didn’t say 66 people? If he had said 66 people, the people would have come out to say let us look into it. But, when he said it was Fulani, it was aimed at stoking the embers. It was the same governor that had come to say before now, the crises in Southern Kaduna, “the Fulani people will never forget and forgive”. So, if you know that the people are like that, why did you come out to tell the whole world that Fulani people were the people that were killed? You are more or less inviting them to come out and attack the people. That is the spirit of unforgiveness. Now, I don’t think it was right for a governor to come out and say that the Fulani people are unforgiving. That is not right. Most importantly, I don’t think the Fulani people are unforgiving people. I have stayed with Fulani people and I also have close friends who are Fulani and we do offend each other. In Southern Kaduna, we have Fulanis that have been staying with us. We grew up to know that they are Fulani. When some of them speak the dialect, the languages of the people of Southern Kaduna, you will never believe that they are Fulani people. They intermarry. So, which Fulani people are you referring to? This is the question. Is it the Fulani people that grew up and schooled together,? Or, is it the Fulani people that up till today, we work together? If they had been arresting the Fulani people, we will know who they are. You may even find out that it could not even be the people that we have been staying together with. You must also remember that the governor said that these were people that came from outside the country. Now, if the governor had set up a committee and if only one side of the people were arrested, what is the peace move that you are making? It simply means that there is no peace at all. Whatever report that the committee comes with, the people will not have confidence in it at all because, it is already, a one-sided show. I was thinking the governor would even call the Fulani members and the Adara leaders and reach an agreement on how to resolve it and to draw a line and allow bygone be bygone. Let us start a new life. The real Fulani that we know do not own guns, but machetes because they are in the bush to protect their cows from other animals and reptiles. Why are the Fulani that we stay together in the village now wields an AK47 rifle and know how to operate it and in many instances, more sophisticated weapons? Is it the same Fulani in the villages, who we did not see with such sophisticated guns? These are people who did not even go into the military. Our people that went into the military do not have access to AK47 rifles. My opinion is that these are people that are coming from outside to create problem and the government which had earlier made that situation known, is supposed to be working along that angle and should not be talking about Fulani against Adara or any other tribe in Southern Kaduna. It is this issue that is making it look religious as far as I am concerned. Following the APC majority in the National Assembly after the recent elections, the party now wants a total control of the leadership of the legislature, as reportedly directed by Adams Oshiomhole, the party’s national chairman. What is your position on this? Well, you know Oshiomhole, the APC National Chairman, does not speak like a statesman, but like a unionist up till now. Even his language and behaviour does not indicate his position as he has not settled down to know that he has crossed a line, whereby, by right, he is supposed to be a statesman that should choose his words. Having said that, I believe that if he feels because he is in government and that he wants to control everything, he can go ahead and let us see the outcome and results of such a control. You are talking of peace and integration, why are you also telling people to keep off? The resources belong to the whole country and not the resources of the APC and neither is it the resources of the PDP. If the PDP was in government for good 16 years and you are just in power for only four years, there is need for them to go back and see how the PDP was able to remain in office for so long. In just few years in office, the APC is finding it very difficult to cross the line and have to resort to use of security agencies to snatch ballot boxes and kill people so that their candidates would be declared winners. For me, if they have to say that because they have declared that they are the majority, if the majority says that they will do without the minority, it means that there will always be crises. There are times that they will need the minority whether they like it or not, how will they do it? You are talking of cohesion in the country. The PDP as a party believes in national unity and has its strategy. The APC does not believe in national unity. That is why the National Chairman makes these types of statements. It is very unfortunate. The PDP is very concerned about the growth of the country. We will prefer maintaining the position of opposition to checkmate the excesses of the government as the government knows that it has a lot of lapses which is why it is always falling back on security agencies in order to continue to remain afloat. But, for how long will you continue to do so? I will advise Oshiomhole to caution himself. I listened to him on television where he said their performance this year is greater than 2015 because he has more members in the National Assembly and the President. What about the governors? Does he have more governors today? The answer is ‘No’. The governors that we have now in the North are more than what we had in the last dispensation, when we had only two governors in the north. But, today, PDP has Taraba, Bauchi, Adamawa, Benue and Sokoto states. By the grace of God, if there is justice, we are going to have Kano, Kaduna and Zamfara states. So, what is his yardstick for gauging his performance? If he must know, he has run the APC backwards and even the crises in his party are only escalating. How he intends to resolve that alone, I don’t know. However, I can tell you without any form of contradiction that the APC Chairman is not a statesman and he is not somebody who should occupy such an office. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu spoke against the purported plan by the Federal Government to review the Value Added Tax (VAT) form its current 10% upwards. What is your view on this? It is simple. It will affect his businesses. He is worried about himself. But, I am happy that he said it because, that is their government’s position. It is not because of his love for the country. People should know that the society is aware of a lot of things and can no longer be led by their noises anymore because you occupy a position. Tinubu’s control of media organisations does not imply that he has the final say as I know very well that there is a limit to all of these things. When there is a change, new pages are opened in the history of Nigeria, I hope and pray he would still be alive to hear what people will say about him.