Lagos – Three years ago, 26 September 2016, while playing for Leicester City in the English Premier League (EPL), Ahmed Musa declared his desire to give back to his people in Nigeria. Then he was still keeping his feet on the ground as he waits to make his mark in the English League. There was time that he didn’t take a shower after training and he went outside to give out food to the less privileged and unknowingly to him, someone took the picture. It says much about Musa’s personality that during the course of that story he casually drops into the conversation that he was handing out food to those who are not as fortunate as he is, as if it is a perfectly normal thing for a professional footballer to do in his spare time. Musa is that sort of man. Softly spoken, humble and with a strong Muslim faith, the 26-year-old has not forgotten his roots. He is currently having a sport centre built in Hotoro, where he played for Kano Pillars, the Nigerian Premier League club. “The people back home have been so nice to me, so I want to give something back to them,” he said. “When I return home in the future I can train with the children and feel very happy.” Born and raised in Jos as one of five children, Musa’s skills were honed on the streets before he started to train at the Aminchi Football Academy in Jos six days a week, getting up at 6am to go before school. His talent soon shone through. “My friends called me Cristiano Ronaldo because I was playing on the wing and they thought I had a little bit of speed like him.” It was not an easy upbringing, however, and Musa had to come to terms with the devastating loss of his father, while he was at school. “He passed away when I was little, he doesn’t know anything about his son being one of the stars in Nigeria, so for me it’s sad that he didn’t see what I am today. “But I know I have to keep on playing for him and I think he’d be proud of me.” Musa who plays as a forward and left winger for Saudi Arabian team, Al-Nassr is said to be one of the richest footballers in his homeland with an estimated fortune of £17.6 million. The then £16.6m Foxes signing – who spent the second half of a season on loan at former club CSKA Moscow – has the standard fleet of luxury cars and a big house. And he joined the likes of Alex Iwobi, Jay-Jay Okocha and Victor Moses in signing a lucrative brand endorsement deal with Pepsi before the start of the 2018 FIFA World Cup. But it is in his homeland where the 25-year-old has made the most interesting purchases. He owns a sports and fitness centre – which also features all-weather football pitches – in the northern region of Nigeria. The facility opened in June last year and Musa is so proud of it that he posted photos of its development to his 350,000 Instagram followers. His most bizarre buy, however, has been a petrol station in Giginyu in Kano State. Again Musa posted photos to his social media account showing the MYCA-7 station – and even himself filling up there when it opened last October. And when all hope seems lost for the Under-23 team in their quest for qualification for the CAF U-23 Cup of Nations (AFCON), Super Eagles talisman, Ahmed Musa came to their rescue and his gesture no doubt helped the team to achieve success. This was after the team had lost the first leg of the second round qualifier 2-0 to Libya in Tunisia and the return leg seems difficult for them as they needed to score three un-replied goals to scale through. Ahmed Musa then moved in to the rescue. He watched the team train in Asaba ahead of the return leg billed for the Stephen Keshi Stadium and in his characteristic manner and efforts to boost the morale of the team, promised to give the team N1m for each goal scored in the encounter. The promise gingered the players and officials to all out for victory in the encounter and they achieved their aims as the team bashed the Libyans 4-0 to qualify for the next round on 4-2 goals aggregate. Victor Osimhen netted a hat-trick, with David Okereke who plays for Italian Serie B side, Spezia scoring the other goal. Musa lived to promise and doled out N4 million to the team immediately after the victory, thus redeeming his promise to the admiration of the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and soccer loving Nigerians. His kindness is still the talk of the town in Asaba, as the attacker surprised an Asaba woman, who came in search of a menial job of N3,000.00 with a credit alert of N250,000.00. The woman, we learnt, came to the Stephen Keshi stadium with her son with the hope of getting a job as a cleaner for the period that the stadium will be engaged with football games beginning from March 22 to 26. Surprisingly, something dramatic happened to the woman after the Super Eagles’ training when Musa on sighting the woman’s son wearing the complete jersey of the Super Eagles, he carried the young boy of less than three years old inside the official bus of the Super Eagles, playfully chatted with him for some minutes before beckoning on the mother to come. When she came, both of them had a very brief chat and she stepped out of the bus. In a jiffy, within some splint seconds, the mother of the young boy screamed as she saw alert of N250, 000.00 on her phone. She was very excited, thanked Musa and waved him and the rest of the Super Eagles players as the bus drove out of the stadium. Just an encounter with kindhearted Musa, the story of this woman changed from looking for a job of N3,000 to receiving an alert of N250,000. Wherever the name of Ahmed Musa is mentioned in Asaba, what follows next – is God bless Ahmed Musa. However, this is not the first time that the Super Eagles stand-in captain will be putting smiles on the faces of people through his philanthropic ways of life. Last year he had reportedly freed over 40 young adults who were remanded at the Taurey, Goron Dutse Prison Yard, Remands Home for Children and Kurmawa Prison. He was also said to have donated over 3,000 bags of rice and millions of Naira after his visit to the Deaf and Dumb School. Musa, who believes there is love in sharing, dashed out countless bags of rice in his home town in Jos, Nigeria. Speaking on act of giving, former chairman of the Lagos State (Football) Referees Council, Moses Adebanjo said Musa’s gesture in turning the face of giving among our footballers around. “I am impressed and moved with his big heart of giving especially to the less-privileged in the society. “This is what our stars should be doing. Musa has taken a giant step in helping not just the poor but also boosting the morale of our players to achieve success. “He needs to be applauded and appreciated so that he can continue to do more and more for all and sundry,” said Adebanjo. Speaking in the same vein, ex-international, Taiwo Oloyede said Musa’s timely intervention in the U-23 team’s qualifier against Libya really did the magic for the team. “Forget the fact that about four or five players were seconded from the Super Eagles to the team ahead of the tie. “The main reason why the team won was because of the morale boosting given to the team by Musa ahead of the qualifier. “That is the type of motivation that should be given to our teams ahead future crucial matches in order for the country to achieve success. “He has really done well and he needs to be commended for his efforts. By such doing, he will be willing to do more for the country,” said Oloyede. Former Team Manager of defunct Julius Berger Football Club of Lagos, Mactony Taiwo tasked other football players to emulate Musa’s gesture in helping to develop the country. “We have other players in the caliber of Musa in our national teams and if one or two of them can do what he (Musa) is doing today, people outside the country will be talking good about Nigeria. “They should emulate him for the country to grow and help in developing our football. Giving little from what they have achieved or getting will help to change a lot of things in the country as well as change the lives of a lot of people. “For instance, the woman he gave N250, 000 will never forget him. For a woman who was out looking for just N3, 000 only to smile home with N250, 000, her life will never be the same again if she makes use of the money very well. “Such gesture from other players in the national team will be welcome development for the society to grow,” said Taiwo. Retired FIFA badge referee, Calistus Chukwujekwu, said he was not in Asaba for the U-23 match against Libya but if what he heard was anything to go by then Musa must be encouraged in order to do more. “He is not the only player in the senior national team and if he can do what he did, then he needs the encouragement of all Nigerians so that he can do more. “We need someone like him in our midst to help lift the standard of living of our people and boost the morale of our players during crucial matches. “Mind you government alone cannot do it but with the likes of Musa around, it will help us to go a long way if others can join him to bail out the people in the authority,” said Chukwujekwu.