Lagos – Organisers of the second edition of the NewBrandsXPO have disclosed that over 6000 participants are expected at this year’s edition slated to take place from July 19th through 20th at the MUSON Centre, Onikan Lagos. NewBrandsXPO is an experiential expo for new and emerging products and services, and according to Tony Usidamen, Lead Consultant of Uburu and co-promoter of the NewBrandsXPO, this year’s edition would also feature workshops for Small and Medium-scaled Enterprises (SMEs). He said having been spurred on by the success of the maiden outing last June, they have decided to include workshops on several important subjects, from branding to financing, as part of events for NewBrandsXPO 2019, thus, offering exhibitors and other participants’ practical insight and tips to help grow their businesses. On the importance of the expo, Lanre Samson, Heventin’s Activations Director and joint promoter of NewBrandsXPO, said brands who build community will have staying power while those who don’t will fade. “Whether it is with other exhibitors or the one-on-one time you’ll get to spend with prospects, NewBrandsXPO is a great platform to create rapport and build valuable relationships.” He said benefits include getting sample of new products and evaluate suppliers, make instant purchases at hugely discounted prices, follow latest trends and innovations, develop valuable personal connections and generate critical business contacts. Like the last edition, exhibitors at NewBrandsXPO 2019 will cut across different sectors including IT & Telecom, consumer electronics & kitchenware, automotive & travel, FMCG, financial services, health & wellness, personal care, apparel and fashion accessories, food & drinks, and several others. Samson said about 3500 persons, including exhibitors and visitors, participated at the 2018 event. “With the introduction of free workshops this year, and a more intensive marketing and publicity campaign, more than 6000 persons are expected to attend over the course of the two days,” he said. NewBrandsXPO is a one-stop shop for organisations seeking to launch new products & services into the market, and get instant consumer feedback. It is an ideal space for exhibitors and visitors to nurture the trust and confidence necessary for the realisation of business goals and fulfillment of personal needs. Uburu is an indigenous marketing communications consultancy providing services to companies and institutions in West Africa across key communication areas including Brand & Corporate PR, Public Affairs, Digital Media Marketing, Event Management, Design and Media Production. Heventin is a Nigeria-based Activations Company. Since 2012, it has been activating fresh and innovative events ranging from conferences, corporate gala, consumer activations, roadshows and exhibition management