A trigger happy Inspector Ogunyemi Olalekan, an officer of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in Lagos, has been dismissed by the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) over the killing of a young man, name Kolade Johnson. His dismissal, which followed an Orderly Room trial by the Police, will precede his trial in the normal court for murder of the citizen. The incident, which occurred on Sunday March 31, 2019 at Onipetesi area of Agege, Lagos, has made Nigerians to renew the call for the disbandment of SARS. The deceased Johnson was the only son of his parents and father of a baby. Before John’s killing, Nigerians had campaigned for the disbandment of SARS through the #EndSARS campaign, leading to Idris Abubakar, the former Inspector General of Police (IGP), promising to reorganise the department. The latest incident has raised doubt over the extent the promised reorganisation was carried out. Johnson’s killing attracted a lot of protests and outrage among Nigerians over the excessive actions of SARS in recent time. For instance, a Nollywood actor, Sean Seun Jimoh, shared a video post on his Instagram page in which he seriously berated SARS officials and placed curses on them. Jimoh in the video started off by telling off celebrities who were breaking bread with officers who, he said, are guilty of police brutality. The actor wants such people to cut off every tie or face the punishment of the almighty. Also, Jimoh placed curses on SARS officials that have taken the lives of innocent people and brought tears to the eyes of their family members. Apart from the actor, several groups and individuals have also came out against SARS and its operatives. The African Action Congress (AAC), a political party is one of such groups. It condemned the killing of Johnson. AAC berated policemen for becoming “notorious for brutalising and killing young Nigerians” for such reasons as their brand of phones or hairstyles. Towolawi Jamiu, AAC Deputy Chairman in Lagos, called for a total overhaul of all such units in the Police Force, including  SARS. Jamiu’s  statement read: “Our party condemns in strong terms the brutality and extrajudicial killings of young Nigerians by the Nigeria Police Force under the guise of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (F-SARS) and Special Anti-Cultism Squad (SACS), which has led to the latest senseless killing of Kolade Johnson by a stray bullet while watching a live football match on Sunday, March 31, 2019, in Lagos. “Before this incident, the Police have become more notorious for brutalising and killings of young Nigerians on the grounds of colour of clothes, the kind of hairstyle and most importantly, the kind of phones they use. “It is on this note the African Action Congress (AAC) has condemned in its entirety the brutalisation and oppression of young Nigerians in their own country and will not hesitate to fight alongside the oppressed masses to put an end to this criminal act. He maintained that under the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration, more than 20,000 Nigerians have been killed either through terrorism or police extrajudicial killings and we don’t know who will be next due to high level of insecurity. He stated: “We call on Nigerians to form an alliance with the AAC, as it is the only political party that offers an alternative and can solve Nigeria’s insecurity problem.” He also called for “the immediate return of SARS to the Police barracks, mass youth employment, an end to police brutality, and an end to party oppression”. Announcing Olalekan’s dismissal after a four-day orderly trial, Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police and Public Relations Officer of the Lagos State Police Command, said in a statement: “Inspector Olalekan has also been handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Panti, for prosecution in conventional Court. Elkana also said the Adjudicating Officer, CSP Indyar Apev, awarded the punishment of dismissal from service and prosecution to the first defaulter. “There was no evidence linking the second defaulter, Sergeant Godwin Orji, to the shooting; he was therefore found not guilty and discharged and acquitted. The first defaulter, Inspector Ogunyemi Olalekan, is handed over to Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, for prosecution in conventional Court,” he added. Since the brutal killing of Johnson by Olalekan, a cross section of Nigerians has been wondering if the time has not come for the Police High Command to disband SARS and turn the operatives to the normal policemen. Chief Benaiah Nnakaku Ohajime, Chairman, Restoration Party of Nigeria (RPN), Obowo Council Area of Imo State, stated: “The recent senseless killing of kolade is highly regrettable and unfortunate. But, we should not throw away SARS because of this. “SARS was established for a special purpose and if we do away with it now, we may be in for more trouble, robbery, kidnapping raping, violent and brutal murder. Please let SARS remain.” On his own, Johnson Jaachimike Ubaruom, a chieftain of the National Interest Party (NIP) in Nwangele LGA of Imo State, stated: “The SARS has outlived its usefulness and should go. We are still batting with ceaseless armed robbery, kidnapping and the Fulani herdsmen wreaking havoc and SARS has not stemmed the tempo of kidnapping and robbery. So, why should we retain them?” Dr. Edmond Idada Amu, a Benin-based medical doctor, said: “We have witnessed several killings of innocent Nigerians by the police, whether by accidental discharge or extra-judicial killings. But, that will not lead to disbanding the SARS. “As we have bad eggs in any society, so also we have in the Police or any other security agency. I will want the killing of Kolade investigated by a panel of credible people constituted by the IG and if the trigger happy police officer is found guilty, he should be made to face the music.” Sunday Akinwolu, a human rights activist, condemned the killing, describing it as sad. He said total disbandment of SARS is not the solution, even as he stressed the need for a review of the operations and workings of the personnel posted to the department. According to him, “The police authority must also ensure that officers posted to the department are of sound mind and mature and those in high ranking who know their right from left. The SARS should be rebranded because of the good effect the police have achieved through the department in the past. “Men and officers in SARS have helped to reduce criminal tendencies in some Nigerians and without SARS, police is nothing. So, total disbandment will no doubt return the country to a state of anarchy, where criminals will take over all places and it will spell doom for the country.” Oloye Gbeyoga Adeniji, Lagos State chairman of Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) AND Secretary General, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), said that disbanding SARS would not solve the problem, but the resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari so that capable hands would take over and restructure every government agency to offer excellent service to the people He said: “The head of the Nigerian government is enjoying the privilege of the Army and Nigerian police working for him. They arrest judges, burgle their offices. Eminent Nigerians are treated like criminals without being pronounced so by court of competent jurisdiction, because until proved guilty, you are innocent. The contrary is the practice. “Once there is a charge against you, they believe that you are guilty and that the judiciary is delaying his action. They become fascists. They use military fiat to become dictators. They pick up somebody and get him killed. It is the spirit of the president that they are working with. The body language of the president is what they are moving about with. “You can see what happened in Kano during the election. The Commissioner of Police was able to control the thugs, a superior officer our brother from the East was brought in, he allowed thuggery and prevented people from voting. Disbanding SARS would not solve the problem. The solution to the problem is for us to remove Buhari. When we remove Buhari and we bring in an educated and intellectually endowed president, his body language would tell the security forces what to do.”