ABUJA – Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello, the minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), on Tuesday, revealed that the Strategic Health Development Plan (SHDP) II is estimated to cost about N162, 000,000,000.00 over an entire five-year period. Speaking at the official launch of the FCT Strategic Health Development Plan II (2018-2022), the minister hinted that while the government would make statutory budgetary provisions available, other financing gaps would be addressed with funding by development partners, World Bank Assisted Programs, private sector and out of pocket expenditures by end users at the health care facilities. According to the minister, who was represented at the occasion by the secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat (HHSS), Mallam Adamu Abubakar Bappah, “in every country, the health sector is critical to social and economic development with ample evidence linking productivity to quality of health care. “In the FCT, the vision to be one of the 20 best capital cities in the world by the year 2020 and mission to provide infrastructure, services and the administration for the development of a first class Federal Capital Territory comparable to the best in the world” is closely tied to the development of its human capital through the health sector.” “Because of the strategic importance of this sector, the development of the FCT Strategic Health Development Plan II was approved in August, 2017. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) on September 5, 2018, endorsed the plan which was subsequently launched by Mr. President on January 8, 2019. “This administration is committed to providing effective and affordable healthcare services.  Among the achievements are the commencement of health service provision from the Karu and Zuba General Hospitals, construction of 13 primary health care clinics, provisions of 10 solar powered boreholes, upgrading and rehabilitation of 19 primary and secondary health facilities across the six FCT Area Councils,” he stressed. BelIo, therefore, implore all stakeholders to use this framework to adequately harness the policy gaps and program interventions required to improve the performance of the health sector towards the delivery of quality, efficient and sustainable health care for all the residents of the FCT.