UYO – The Civil Liberties Organisation, Akwa Ibom State branch, has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to declare the election result of the Essien Udim state constituency. In a statement issued by Franklyn Isong, the state chairman of the organisation, in Uyo on Monday,  the CLO claimed that the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Akwa Ibom State, Mike Igini, had not provided any explanation for not issuing a Certificate of Return to any of the candidates who contested the election into the Essien Udim State Constituency. It would be recalled that INEC in Akwa Ibom State had  during the presentation of  Certificates of Return to winners of the election on Thursday March 27, 2019, announced that its decision to withhold the result for the Essien Udim state constituency was due to the fact that its officials were forced to declare  Nse Ntuen of APC as winner of March 3, 2019, state House of Assembly election under duress. Igini, while presenting Certificates of return to Gov. Udom Emmanuel, his deputy, Mr Moses Ekpo and 25 members-elect of the state House of Assembly, all elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had said the commission at the national level would handle the issue of that state constituency, adding that he had executed his job of carrying out elections in the state. His words: “As an umpire, we have been given the opportunity to serve the people and our fatherland in the just-concluded general elections, and that we have done. But, the result for the Essien Udim State Consituency was declared under duress, and we cannot honour that.” Also, results from nine out of the 11 wards in Essien Udim were cancelled, as earlier threatened by INEC, owing to reported cases of ballot snatching and other violent acts during the elections. Though this initial explanation would have invalidated the demand by the CLO, it insisted that “it is imperative that at the end of the election, both the candidates and members/citizens of the state constituency should know their fate as to who won and who is their representative. “As it stands, the candidates, the citizens of the state constituency, the people of Akwa Ibom State and the political parties who sponsored candidate in the election are in the quandary, not knowing the outcome of the election and what legal action to take in redress”. The CLO, therefore, declared the development as sad, unfortunate, which ought not to be in a democratic setting where provisions of law were explicit on the functions of INEC and other institutions in the electoral process.