Temidayo Akinsuyi, Tony Ezimakor Lagos / Abuja  – The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday said its decision on the leadership of the 9th National Assembly must be respected by its legislative caucus and opposition lawmakers. The party had already adopted Senator Ahmad Lawan, the incumbent Senate Leader, as its candidate for Senate President, a move that has been condemned by some APC lawmakers and the opposition who accused the party of interference in the politics of the National Assembly, an independent arm of government. Senators Danjuma Goje and Ali Ndume of the APC are insisting on vying for Senate Presidency in the 9th National Assembly. Speaking in an interview with Daily Independent, Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC National Publicity Secretary, said the National Assembly is not a political party and as such cannot be in opposition to the executive arm of government. According to him, APC lawmakers are in the National Assembly to help the party deliver on its mandate to Nigerians. Issa-Onilu, who said that the party had taken full charge of the leadership of the National Assembly, added that there was no threat from any quarters. He said the decision of the APC not to share the National Assembly offices with other political parties was in line with democratic norms as obtained in advanced democracies. “Let me state clearly that the National Assembly is not a political party. So it is an abnormality for the National Assembly or the Senate or House of Representatives as institutions to be in opposition to the executive. “The opposition in the National Assembly is PDP and other political parties that have members elected into legislative arm. The members of the National Assembly elected on the ticket of APC cannot be in opposition to their own government. They are part of the ruling party. “They are in the National Assembly to help the ruling party deliver on its mandate. The APC lawmakers are the legislative arm of the ruling party. And because they are in the majority in both the Senate and the House of Representatives, they automatically produce the leaders of the two chambers. Let me emphasise the word produce, not elect. The rule allows for simple majority and APC has that already. “You may need to ask those who are posting unfounded opinion about this issue when did they see the Democrat and the Republican in the United States’ Congress conducting elections as a unit to choose leaders. If the Democrat is in the majority in the House of Representatives in the US, they automatically produce the speaker and other leadership positions that belong to the majority party. “The Republican would also produce leaders for the positions that belong to the minority positions. If the situation were reversed, then the leadership positions would be reversed in like manner. The respective party normally handles this matter and they would return to the chambers to announce their respective new leaders. The process of election in the chambers, therefore, becomes a mere formality. “As a party in the majority in the two chambers, APC does not require the support of the PDP members to elect the Senate President, the speaker and the other principal positions. Just as the PDP does not require the support of APC to elect the minority leaders and those other positions that belong to the minority party. This is the convention”, he said. APC Not Averse To Consultation With Opposition Meanwhile, APC said it has nothing against recent consultations initiated by its Senate President-nominee, Ahmad Lawan, provided the negatiations fall within the prisms of its objective. Contrary to the divisive plot canvassed by the leadership of the party, suggesting that it can do without the opposition members of the parliament, Senator Lawan last week initiated a by-partisan dialogue with the PDP as he tries to win their support ahead of forthcoming parliamentary leadership election in June. Reacting to the consultations apparently initiated without the express approval of the party, Lanre Issa-Onilu, National Publicity Secretary of APC, said the consultations is in keeping with normal parliamentary process, even as he maintained that the ruling party has the simple majority to produce its choice leaders in the two chambers of the National Assembly. Issa-Onilu explained that part of the reasons APC adopted Senator Lawan as its candidate for President of Senate was his ability to carry his colleagues along without compromising the “progressive ideology of the APC”. A statement issued by the party reads in part, “We are inundated with reports of our members in the National Assembly holding consultations with members of the opposition over the election of leaders into the 9th National Assembly. Let me state that our party has no objection to such consultations. “It is a normal democratic practice world over to stretch hands across the divides.  And contrary to some media reports, the actions of our members do not contradict the party’s position. APC has comfortable majority in both chambers, therefore, we have the number to produce the leadership. “But democracy recognises the importance of the opposition. Especially when you do not have two-third which would be required at some very critical situations. For us as a ruling party, we understand that a stable and peaceful National Assembly would enhance our capacity to deliver more for the people of Nigeria. “So the party is not averse to negotiation by Senator Ahmad Lawan and our other senators-elect working to fulfil the position taken by our party. “It is important to note that one of the key considerations for adopting him as the party’s candidate for the Senate Presidency is his ability to carry everyone along. On top of that, the party has confidence in him not to compromise the progressive ideology of APC. So clearly, Senator Ahmed Lawan is capable of conducting his negotiations within the prism of APC’s objectives”. He further stated that the APC will soon release the zoning arrangement for remaining principal offices of the 9th National Assembly. “The party will also make its position clear in the coming days on the principal positions in the House of Representatives”.