LAGOS – Relief came the way of Ekiti state governor, Kayode Fayemi yes- terday as the Supreme Court upheld the election that produced him as governor by dismissing the appeal by Se- gun Oni, a former governor of Ekiti state and chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). It was a third consecutive loss for Oni in his bid to sack Fayemi since his victory in the governorship primary of the APC in the state in 2018. The appeal was against an earlier judgment of the Court of Appeal, which upheld the decision of a Federal High Court, dismissing Oni’s suit challenging Fayemi’s eligibili- ty to contest the last governor- ship election held in the state on June 14, 2018. The Supreme Court, in a unanimous judgment of a five- man panel, held on Wednes- day, affirmed that the appeal by Oni was statute barred and therefore, incompetent. Justice Amiru Sanusi, in the lead judgment, held that the case, being a pre-election one, was not commenced at the trial court, within the time provided under Section 285 of the Constitution. Justice Sanusi said the case was not commenced in accor- dance with the provision of Section 285 of the Constitu- tion, requiring all pre-election cases to be initiated within 14 days of the occurrence of the cause of action. He noted that from the re- cord before the court Oni filed his suit at the trial court – the Federal High Court, Ado-Eki- ti, 42 days after the cause of action arose. Justice Sanusi said the de- velopment robbed the court of the jurisdiction to hear the appeal, while he said was incompetent and had become an academic exercise. Another member of the panel, Justice John Okoro faulted the attitude exhibited by the appellant and advised politicians to always act de- cently. Justice Okoro wondered why Oni, who had conceded defeat, on emerging second in the governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), made a sudden u-turn and chose to challenge the out- come of the primary in court. The judge, who noted that, even among the mafias, there are rules, came down hard on Nigerian politicians, who he observed, act without honour. Oni had, upon emerging second behind Fayemi in the primary held by the APC to select its candidate for last governorship election in Ek- iti State, sued, challenging Fayemi’s eligibility to contest the election. He prayed the court to de- clare that Fayemi was not eli- gible to contest the election on the grounds that he was not Fayemi validly nominated, having allegedly failed to resign his position as Minister of Mines and Steel Development 30 days before the primary election. Oni also asked the court to declare Fayemi ineligible for the election given that he was indicted by the Justice Silas Oyewole-led commission of inquiry set up by former Gov- ernor Ayo Fayose to investi- gate his first tenure between 2010 and 2014. He equally sought the with- drawal of the certificate of re- turn issued to Fayemi, upon winning the election, and to declare him (Oni) as the duly nominated APC candidate and duly elected governor. The case, which was ini- tially filed before the Federal High Court, Abuja, was trans- ferred by Justice Babatunde Quadri to the court’s division in Ado-Ekiti, on grounds of jurisdiction. In a judgment on December 10, 2018, Justice Uche Agomoh of the Federal High Court, Ado-Ekiti, dismissed Oni’s case for lacking in merit. Oni suffered a similar fate at the Court of Appeal, when the appellate court, in a judg- ment on February 12, 2019 dismissed his appeal for being unmeritorious. The Court of Appeal, among others, said Fayemi’s failure to resign as the then Minister of Solid Minerals to contest the May 12, 2018 governorship primary where he emerged as the candidate of APC was not enough to disqualify him. The court also held that Fayemi’s indictment by Justice Silas Oyewole led judi- cial panel of inquiry was not enough to bar him from par- ticipating in the election. The Court of Appeal held that it was only a conviction by a competent court of law that could bar an aspirant from a primary or general election and not mere indict- ment by a panel. It was also noted that the said indictment and the white paper issued by the state gov- ernment had been set aside by a judgment by Justice Musa Othman of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in Bwari, Abuja. While the case lasted, em- issaries were sent to Oni to withdraw the case in the inter- est of the party but he refused the entreaties. One of the group was the Elders’ Forum of the APC in Ekiti State which has called on Oni to withdraw the suit challenging the eligibility of the Fayemi. The issue formed the ma- jor topic of discussion at the APC Elders’ Forum meeting with members resolving that withdrawal of the case by Oni would be in interest of the party and Ekiti State. According to a communi- qué issued at the end of the meeting, a copy of which was made available to reporters in Ado-Ekiti on Friday, the APC chieftains said the withdraw- al of the case by Oni and his group will facilitate an out-of- court settlement. In the communiqué signed by Chief George Akosile and the Forum’s secretary, Chief Abiodun Ajayi, the group re- solved to send a five-man del- egation to Oni with a letter appealing for the withdrawal of the case. The Ekiti APC Elders’ Fo- rum also resolved to send a memo to Fayemi to reconcile with the aggrieved (Oni) group with a view to withdrawing the case from court and their inclusion in the forthcoming administration. However, Oni refused to budge. Speaking on why Oni in- stituted the action against Fayemi, Dr. Bayo Arowolaju, a former aide to the former Ekiti state governor wrote “Chief Segun Oni contested the APC Governorship pri- mary election in Ekiti State on May 12, 2018 with other 32 aspirants. He came second to Dr. John Kayode Fayemi, the then Minister of Mines and Steel Development. He worked for the success of the party and its candidate at the July 14 governorship election in the state. He refused all en- treaties to decamp to another party to contest the July 14 election. Segun Oni is not a desperate and disloyal politi- cian; he is integrity person- ified”. “Then suddenly, after the primary election, there were rumors and suspicions that Dr. Kayode Fayemi, did not resign his appointment as the Federal Minister of Mines and Steel Development thir- ty days preceding the May 12, 2018 Ekiti APC primary elec- tion. This was contrary to the stipulations of the “2014 APC Guidelines for Nominating Candidates for Public Elec- tions” for the members of the party”. “The above were fueled by the Channelstv.com, which re- ported on May 13, 2018: “APC Primary: Buhari Congratu- lates Fayemi, Seeks Stronger Ekiti APC.” It was fully report- ed that: “President Muham- madu Buhari has commend- ed the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on his victory in the governorship primary elec- tion of All Progressive Con- gress (APC) in Ekiti (Empha- sis mine). This clearly shown that at the time of the primary election and Dr. Fayemi’s vic- tory on May 12, 2018, he was still the Minister of Mines and Steel Development and mem- ber of the Federal Executive Council”. “No resignation of appoint- ment before contesting any election, as required by party guidelines, may lead to abuse of power and office. And this is the main reason why all prospective aspirants are re- quired to resign their appoint- ments as a Public Officer. It is to ensure that there is a plain and level ground for all aspi- rants without anyone having undue advantage of using his power or government (Federal or State) might or any other instrumentality or parapher- nalia of office over other fel- low aspirants or the delegates or voters”.