LAGOS – Plagued by poverty, hunger, diseases and poor infrastructures impeding business growth, African leaders  have been called upon to creatively look outside the box to find solutions to the myriads of problems confronting the continent. The creative experts who spoke differently during the ‘Creative Week’ in Nigeria recently agreed that though the continent is blessed with abundant natural resources, it is, however, bedeviled with various socio-economic challenges ranging from, untapped natural resources, low GDP, poor infrastructure, health, education issues,  poverty among others. Though these have remained daunting for decades but organisers of ‘Creativity Week’ in Nigeria believed that Africa can change the status quo by embracing the power of creativity to bring about positive change. Nnamdi Ndu, Managing Diretor, Chini Africa,  speaking during the creative week said it is time for African leaders, corporate organisations to draw economic strength from the creative industry to move the continent forward. Giving examples of how scientists have come up with solutions to enhance lives and tackle human challenges, Ndu challenged brands, government and non-governmental organisations to unite in the resolve to provide solution for Africa’s many challenges. He said Creativity Week is about how to encourage the private sector to do more in developing the society across Africa. “Though people rely on government for development as they pay taxes and believe that development is squarely on the shoulders of the government, but we know that if certain activities are left to the government, in the face of dwindling incomes in, government would not be able to make the expected changes. According to him, this can be achieved by brands getting involved and intervening in issues that communities are interested in. He noted that though some companies are involved in CSR, but many of the CSR projects are for the camera. The issues should be internalised, to the extent that even the staff should be able to say what the brands represent inside and this should resonate outside, he said. The organisers used the opportunity of Creativity Week in the last week of March, 2019 to launch ‘Creating a Better Africa programme’ which Nmamdi said is an opportunity for African businesses to stand up and take positions to help in solving challenges confronting the continent today. Creativity Week is an annual forum that brings together all those who are involved in marketing communication and marketing and the whole idea is to promote the industry. It is also targeted at establishing the industry so that they can produce materials that are at par with materials produced from other parts of the world.