Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester City now meet in Europe for the first time. They have been contenders at the top of the EPL in recent years and now translate their rivalry to the European stage for the first time. This is Tottenham’s first European game in their new stadium; their first four home UCL games this season were played at Wembley. While Spurs are in the UCL quarterfinals for the first time since their sole previous appearance eight years ago, this is City’s third last-eight tie in the past four seasons and a second successive contest at this stage against a fellow English club. Both come into this match buoyed by positive round of 16 performances against German opponents, Spurs seeing off Borussia Dortmund 4-0 on aggregate while City recorded their biggest European victory, dismantling Schalke 7-0 in Manchester to complete a 10-2 success over the two legs. City midfielder Kevin De Bruyne claims Tottenham’s new ground will not be a significant factor in the first leg of the tie but South Korean forward Son Heung-min said the atmosphere could help his team, who had been based at Wembley since the start of the 2017/18 season. “Of course,” he told reporters at the pre-match press conference. “We take these plus points for us because maybe the City players don’t realise, they always play at home. We’ve been nearly two years away from our home stadium. “What we’ve done in the last two years was very positive and I think we missed home a lot and maybe we can show them tomorrow night what is the difference between Wembley and our new stadium.” Son, who scored the first league goal in the new stadium, said the opening match there was a special occasion. “It was very positive. I think it’s also very important to take this positive energy for tomorrow. When you think positive, positive things happen.” Tottenham boss Mauricio Pochettino said the game against the defending Premier League champions, who are aiming for a clean sweep of trophies, would be one of the most important of his coaching career but vowed to attack. “I think it’s going to be a very tough game,” he said. “Manchester City is one of the best teams in Europe, not only in England. Tomorrow (today) we want to start the game very aggressive, trying to dominate.” And he said the stadium could be a factor that works in his side’s favour. Guardiola believes Spurs have the advantage on Tuesday after having a free weekend to prepare for the visit of City. But the Catalan says his players cannot complain about a heavy schedule if they want to be considered among the giants of the game.