The chair, Board of Directors of Fidelity Bank Plc, Ernest Ebi,has advised  directors of listed and private companies in the country  to take active roles in their respective organization’s cybersecurity framework and operations. He gave the counsel at the 2019 Bank Directors’ Association of Nigeria (BDAN) conference on Cybersecurity held in Lagos,where he stated  that organisations have become completely dependent on cyber networks to run their processes. He maintained that boards need to understand and approach cybersecurity from enterprise-wide risk perspectives rather than Information Technology (IT),adding that rapidly evolving data breaches and attacks have caused significant financial and reputational damage to many organisations. “The Board should develop expertise on cyber risk. Cybersecurity must be a constant on the Board’s agenda”, he said. President, Governing Council of BDAN, Osaretin Demuren, who emphasized   the import of information sharing in tackling the growing menace of cybercrime, noted that sharing of relevant information amongst stakeholders in the financial services industry would help demystify the activities of hackers and cyber criminals. This, she added, will make them less effective in perpetuating their nefarious deeds. “Cyber security is one of the top risks that is being faced not just in the financial sector, but in all sectors of the economy. “However the impact is more felt in the financial sector, because once you hack into one, all the others are open. So, it is very important that people are aware of cyber risk and the damage it can do to businesses”, She explained. Emphasizing the import of the board in an organisation’s cybersecurity posture particularly in relation to protecting shareholder value, Partner and Head of Technology Advisory Practice and Markets, KPMG, Joseph Tegbe said the board must do all it can to mitigate risk for consumers and shareholders. Tegbe, in his keynote address, said boards should be held responsible and accountable for cyber breaches. He also advised organisations to conduct cybersecurity assessment to help reduce risk, minimize breach impact, and protect against future attacks. “Building cybersecurity capabilities for banks must be strategic. We must be proactive and not reactive”, he added.