Osogbo – Governor Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State has said that his becoming the Osun chief executive was by providence. Oyetola said that he was convinced beyond any reasonable doubt that the promise of God Almighty had materialised in the ‘Land of Virtue’. The governor stated this at a thanksgiving service and praises organised by the Government House Chapel, Oke-fia, Osogbo. He told the congregation that the hitch-free elections recorded in the state was a strong affirmation that Almighty God domiciles in Osun, adding that He never failed him, his administration and the good people of Osun State. Oyetola, who made references to the Holy Bible and Quran where Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed faced all manners of challenges but surmounted all while on earth, maintained that despite the seeming storm and wind that blew, God Almighty had never forsaken him. The governor appreciated God for the peaceful atmosphere, religious harmony and unity of purpose existing in the state, and also commended the clergies for not resting on their oars in praying for peaceful coexistence in the state, assuring the people of Osun State that he was hopeful that Almighty God would see the present All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration in the state through in its quest to take the state to the promised land. Governor Oyetola enjoined all elected public officers to guide their opportunity to serve jealously, knowing fully well that every one of them is accountable to the people, hence, the need for them to be up and doing so as to deliver on the promises made while canvassing for their support. In his sermon at the service, the coordinating chaplain, Government House Chapel, Osogbo, Rev. Dr. Testimony Onifade, said the programme was designed to appreciate Almighty God for his unprecedented mercies showered on the state thus far. Onifade enjoined the people of Osun State to join hands with the present administration in its quest at taking the state to the Promised Land. Highpoint of the programme was the thanksgiving session which saw the governor, his wife, the deputy governor leading other dignitaries at the service to dance to the altar in appreciation of God’s faithfulness over the present administration and the state at large.