Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, former Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to Governor Rochas Okorocha and ex-Executive Secretary, Imo State Pools Betting and Gaming Board, is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Chief Facilitator, Grassroots Employers for Ihedioha, a major campaign team of the party in Imo State. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the recent resignation of Justice Walter Onnoghen, the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), the struggle for National Assembly leadership and Emeka Ihedioha’s plan to turn around the fortunes of Imo State. Excerpt What is your take on the recent resignation of Justice Walter On- noghen, the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN)? The resignation of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) brings to the fore, the submission and surrender of the Judiciary to the Ex- ecutive. It is reminiscent of the Military regime, an autocratic government led by a despot. And it is af- termath of a shameful act of the National Judicial Commission (NJC) whose bias was made manifest in the Executive imposed and scripted recommendations to President Muhamma- du Buhari. It is the height of the enslavement of the Judiciary in Nigeria. It is a pitiable moment for the rule of law, a painful good- bye to justice and fair play. I tell you that this calls for serious deep thought be- cause it is an invitation to a state of emergency. The fi- nal hope of the oppressed is buried. But, I think, there will be resurrection in a short while The 2019 general elections have come and gone. How do you see the fact that of the 92 political parties, only the two major par- ties, APC and PDP, dominated in the results? Iamatalossastohow the over 90 political parties met the criteria for regis- tration. It is untenable that a party which flaunts national spread cannot win a single seat in one state constituency, cannot even win in a political ward, and a National Chairman of such party still comes out of the hiding to claim heleadsapoliticalparty.It is time to properly situate such persons as President Generals of their Town Unions or Market Associ- ations than make mockery of multi-party state. With the dominance of the two major parties, don’t you think the country would be better off with between three and five political parties? Yes, I agree with you. It is only in Nigeria that we witness multi-party system as proliferation of parties, resulting in a mob scenario. From the outings, Nigeria is not supposed to float more than five political parties and they should be scaled down after every four years when general elections are concluded. I can say that the ruling government in Nigeria is always at com- fort with proliferation of trade unions, market asso- ciations and town unions as political parties for their use to suppress the real op- position party. This weak- ens democracy and turns it into a kind of totalitarian government as we are witnessing in Nigeria today. How do you see the unfolding drama of the leadership of the Eighth National Assembly, al- though the APC has the majority in both Chambers? I see the National Assem- bly, especially the Senate, as surviving Executive manip- ulation. Speaking about the majority, APC cannot mus- ter a resounding majority in the search for the Senate leadership. So also in the House of Representatives. So, the PDP has a remark- able role to play and com- mensurable stake in the leadership of the National Assembly What advice would you give to the in-coming National Assembly Members? The incoming National Assembly should not sell out our democracy to the Executive arm. That will result to the subjugation of the pride, the beauty and glamour of democracy. The absence of the legislature, for sure is the prevalence of military rule. The National Assembly holds the ace of democracy, they have the seal of democracy. It is in the national interest that members of the National Assembly should conduct themselves within their constitutional powers and exercise the powers without fear of the Executive arm of government. What agenda would you proffer for President Muhamamdu Buhari in the next four years? AsamemberofPDP,Ido not see a President Buhari leading the affairs of the country in the next four years. There is ongoing lit- igation contesting Buhari’s declaration as President and I align myself with Atiku Abubakar’s contest of Buhari’s victory. Until the matter is disposed of, expectedly in favour of PDP and Atiku Abubakar, I have no advice for Buhari. Before the election, people believed that Uche Nwosu of Action Alliance, Ifeanyi Ararume of APGA and the Hope Uzodinma APC candidate, stood a chance of winning and that a clear winner might not arise. Why do you think that Chief Emeka Ihedioha came tops against such formidable opponents? There is no critical par- ticipant or observer that could best have assessed Ararume, Hope Uzodinma, Uche Nwosu or Ohakim as having more chances than Ihedioha. I must remind you that Imo people have grown wiser and are very knowledgeable of the an- tecedents of all the candi- dates. From the beginning, Ihedioha stood out best among the rest in terms of pedigree, integrity, capac- ity, acceptability and good governance expectations. Would you say that the alleged official intimidation of the Elec- toral Officers by state agencies was real? If so, why did Chief Ihe- dioha still had the highest votes inspite of such intimidations? The 2019 elections, you can see, was generally marred by state induced electoral fraud, propagat- ed by military force of the state. The state of Nigeria, ruled by President Muham- maduBuhariandhisparty, the All Progressives Con- gress (APC) has turned into a mob, degenerated democ- racy wherein the people are cowed, coaxed, intimidated, harassed and their popular will upturned. This year’s election is next to a dawn military coup, where the expectations of a peaceful transition were dashed by military terrorists in civil- ian apparel. It is obvious that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) swept the Pres- idential and National As- sembly polls. PDP’s Atiku Abubakar won the election, but the forces of darkness ruled out our victory. You can also see the outcome of the Governorship and State Assembly elections from South East, South South, South West, North Central, North East and North West. See the inconclusiveness in the states clearly won by PDP. See the upturning of PDP’s victories in some states like Kaduna, etc. So, it is a manifest fact that the use of military apparatus aided APC’s declarations of winning. But, coming to Imo State, I must tell you that Okoro- cha’s end played a vital role ahead of the elections. He is serving his terminal ten- ure. He had bruised, bru- talised, dehumanised and wrecked Imo people and their economy. Okorocha had installed himself as a demi god and challenged the gods. All strata of the peo- ple picked up their gaunt- let and made a vow to lead Okorocha’s dynasty out of the Government House. Uche Nwosu himself had started acting in the same features as though he was already the governor, hence sending worrisome signals against the future of Imo State. Therefore, the stage was set to actualise the will of Imo people. Meanwhile, Okorocha’s proclamation as Sena- tor-elect under duress has hit the brickwall. More es- pecially, both the weak and the strong went down in prayers and asked God to rise and take up the battle. So, no amount of force could suppress the power of the people. Imo governorship election hence humiliated the mighty and powerful, as Ihedioha, like the Biblical David, triumphed over the giant, Goliath. This is the case of Imo State. In the choice of those to work with him, what advice would you give to the Imo State gover- nor-elect, Chief Emeka Ihedioha? Rt Hon Emeka Ihedioha is a seasoned administra- tor, former Presiding Offi- cer of the National Assem- bly, a shrewd politician, a humane and generous mind and a man with good heart. He has traversed the world. He is knowledgeable in the techniques of growing the economy of the state. His theme is the rebuilding of the state and Imo, having been liberated from the shackles of the inhuman government of Okorocha, I will only assure our peo- ple that the process of rebuilding Imo State has been kick-started by Ihe- dioha and this will begin to take shape after Ihedio- ha’s swearing in on May 29 this year. I believe Ihedioha knows the good things to do to turn the state around for good.