Xavier Ndah, Titilope Joseph Lagos – Mohammed Adamu, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), has disclosed that the police would now make use of electro-muscular disruption technology, known as taser, in place of firearms during operations. The IGP said it would now be used for routine patrols, arrest duties, and other low-risk operations as a strategic approach towards reducing incidents of fatalities associated with inappropriate use of lethal weapons by the police as first line of response to threats. Adamu disclosed this when he addressed men and women of the Nigerian Police Force at the Police College Parade Ground, Ikeja, Lagos, on Monday. He was reacting to the spate of extrajudicial killings by some members of the force recently. According to the IGP, between January and April, 2019, Lagos State has recorded four incidents of misuse of firearms which had resulted in extrajudicial killings of young citizens of this country and injury to others. Adamu said, “It’s more worrisome that two of these incidents occurred within the last two weeks. Aside negating our professional calling, extrajudicial acts of any description or level by any police personnel is an unacceptable anomaly that creates distrust and disdain between the citizens and the police and widens the trust gap between them. “In perfecting these initiatives, we shall be engaging with human rights bodies, international agencies, development partners, and civil society organisations. “This is with a view to evolving a united front towards addressing these challenges on a sustainable basis and within the context of best international practices.” Adamu further stated that the force would no longer tolerate the senseless killings carried out by some of its men and officers around the country. “I must emphasise that enough is enough. The nation and indeed the police under the current leadership can no longer tolerate abuses associated with the police either in Lagos or any other part of the country. “I have already ordered that a signal be circulated to all police commands and formations warning of dire consequences against any personnel that, by their incorrigible acts, deviates from accepted police culture and values,” he said. While warning the officers, he said: “The choice now is for each officer to either resolve to perform his or her duties within extant rules, laws and policies or be prepared to be shown the way out of the system. “Our visit to Lagos is also designed to condone with the families of the victims of the recent incidents of misuse of firearms or other forms of abuse of power by identified police personnel in the state and to share in their grief. “It is also to reassure citizens that as an institution, the Nigeria police will not condone any form of abuse of power, acts resulting in misuse of firearms, overzealous and sundry unprofessional conducts by members of the police, regardless of his rank and position.” He said that in the coming days, more administrative actions directed at giving a new orientation to all police personnel and restructuring of Lagos State command would be undertaken. “This may involve personnel re-organisation. There will be nationwide tailor-made training and capacity development programmes that are directed at reorientation of personnel in compliance with human rights and professional conducts”, Adamu said. The IGP commended policemen in the command for their dedication to crime-fighting and encouraged them to do more in line with international standards. Earlier, in his address, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Zubairu Muazu, expressed dissatisfaction at the fact that the IGP was visiting the command under unpleasant circumstances. “The Lagos State Police Command would have loved to welcome the IG on a better note than the one that brought him. “It is sad and unfortunate that the IG is visiting Lagos due to the continuous misdemeanour of some policemen in Lagos. “However, the command is blessed with hardworking officers, working day-in and day-out to make sure that crime is reduced to the barest minimum,” he said. Muazu assured the IG and the public that the command would continue to work hard to make Lagos safe.