Uyo – Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has blasted pastors who prophesied that he would lose the recently concluded governorship election in the state, declaring them as fake pastors Emmanuel, who made the declaration during a church service  at Insight Bible Church, Nsikak Eduok Avenue, (2 Lanes), Uyo, on Sunday, maintaining that there were two types of pastors, the ones that God called and the ones that called God. “I wasn’t invited to this convention, I just told my team we’ll be worshiping at Insight Bible Church. My wife comes here once we don’t have any state function to attend. But as a governor, I’m a member of every Bible believing church where the truth is preached. “Not those fake churches ooo. Those ones that said if Udom Emmanuel doesn’t lose election let it be known that God didn’t call them. There are two types of pastors, the ones that God called and the ones that called God,” he said. Meanwhile Governor Emmanuel, over the weekend, also hosted a victory thanksgiving service at the Ibom International Stadium to thank God for the success of the 2019 elections. He declared on the occasion of the thanksgiving that “God showeth forth his majesty and granted all round victory at the elections,” and, therefore, reaffirmed his commitment to deploying all resources and connections to improve the socio economic status of Akwa Ibom and make life comfortable for all the citizens of the state. God, according to Emmanuel, used the challenges during the election to prove Himself supreme in the affairs of men. His words “If we didn’t win this election, the body of Christ would have been mocked because for the fifty plus years I have lived, I don’t know any government that is being prayed for like this.” He, therefore, expressed gratitude to all the fathers of faith and Christians who interceded for the state and also thanked all the lieutenants who stood firm from units to wards and chapters as coordinators to defend the mandate and prayed God to bless every instrument used to actualize the Divine mandate.