MAKURDI – Abraham Kwaghngu, Principal Senior Special Assistant (PSSA) to Governor Samuel Ortom on Special Duties, has said that any governorship candidate that contested against his principal in the last election that goes to the Election Petitions Tribunal has no justification to do so. He argued that going to the tribunal would amount to going against the Benue people’s voice, who he said had spoken through the ballot by electing Ortom. He therefore called on those that lost the election against Ortom to team up with the governor towards moving the state forward. Kwaghngu, who spoke to newsmen in Makurdi on Sunday, assured Benue people that the governor would not let them down in his second term. He said: “There is just no justification whatsoever for anyone to go to court because the people have spoken and there is no voice that will come outside the people of Benue State that will remove the governor. “The voice was very clear. When we were going for the rerun, we had well over 80, 000 votes and when we went, the little that we contested for in the rerun, we also won and any right thinking human being should know that the people have spoken and the voice of the people is the voice of God. “The governor has opened his arms to all his co-contestants to come with the ideas they had and wanted to rule the state. “Now that they have not been elected, our arms are open to them to come so we join forces together and move our state forward.” While, he assured that Ortom would not disappoint the people this time around, he said: “He started on a bad note and you are aware that there was recession in this country when he took over and then there was a lot of security challenges; when people were being displaced from their homes and were being killed. “So, with this security challenges and the recession, the starting was not good. But, according to the scriptures, ‘better is the end of a thing than the beginning’. We hope that at the end, the people of Benue will have cause to rejoice and appreciate the good works of the governor.”