ADO-EKITI – Erelu Bisi Fayemi, wife of Ekiti State governor, and some judges have called for joint action against the spate of rapes and other forms of violence against women in the state. Speaking on Thursday in Ado-Ekiti during a stakeholders’ meeting held to find solution to violence against women, Mrs.  Fayemi declared that the increasing incidences of sexual and domestic violence against women in the state were becoming worrisome, saying all hands must be on the deck to win the war. Mrs. Fayemi hinted that government was saddened that in spite of the existing laws prohibiting gender- based violence, Ekiti continued to witness issues of rape, defilement and human trafficking. She attributed the increase to non-implementation of the gender-based Violence Prohibition Law, Child Rights Law, Equal Opportunities Law and other legislations put in place by his husband, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, and the immediate past government. She said, “When Fayemi left, some of the laws put in place to safeguard the lives of women and girl child were not implemented,” saying it constituted as a serious snag in the fight against the practice. She added, “At a stakeholders’ meeting held recently, we agreed that part of the policy thrust should be that steps must be taken on how to take care of  the emotional needs of victims before seeking or getting  justice through the court of law. “Most of the victims used to be emotionally down,  because we have all failed them at one time or the other, that is why we must rise up to fight this scourge.” Mrs. Fayemi said the three key areas that needed to be examined by stakeholders include the causes of gender-based violence, how to use legal framework to resolve some of the issues revolving around this scourge and how to break the culture of silence among victims. “The third one is how to focus on inter-agency collaboration, because this is not a problem that can be solved by a body. Likewise, an Appeal Court’s Judge, Justice Uzor Ndukwe-Anyanwu, expressed worries over the rampant violence against women in Ekiti. She added that the issue had always been an issue of interest to Nigerian All Female Judges Association, particularly how to resolve the problem and make women safe wherever they go. “Ekiti has this as a big problem. I am worried that we have it in this proportion. It is not something cultural as people want us to believe,” she said. Mr. Wale Fapohunda, Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, said the government was ready to go all hogs to prevent the state from being tagged a thriving land for violence against women and girl child. “Reported cases of sexual rape, violent rape, and child defilement have now reached a frequency that we firmly must believe there is an urgent need for joint action between government and other stakeholders to reverse the scourge. “We are committed to zero tolerance for all forms of violence against women and children. Apart from legal interventions, we also take another step that photographs of convicted offenders should be placed on state’s website and announced on state broadcasting service. “Also in cases of defilement, we insist on  compulsory psychiatric tests for all persons designated as having cases to answer in form of violence against women,” he said. In his contribution, Police commissioner, Ekiti State Command, Mr. Asuquo Amba, said any person defiled must pass through medical examination for the police to have proof to prefer charges against offenders. Amba, represented by officer in charge of Legal Department, SP Femi Falade, advised that government should direct all public hospitals to offer free medical services to victims to prevent them from being made to pay for medical treatments, even while in emotional trouble.