Abuja – Senator Kabiru Gaya, a lawmaker under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) from Kano State, yesterday formally declared his intention to contest the position of Deputy President of the Senate in the ninth Senate. The lawmaker, who said that he was vying for the position being the most ranking senator from the North West geopolitical zone, added that his zone ought to produce the position since the region gave the highest vote to President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 general elections. Gaya, who is a fourth-time senator and chairman senate committee on works, said “If the six zones are accommodated in the sharing formula for the National Assembly leadership positions, four of them contributed tremendously to the election of Mr. President. “The South West, which has now got the position of the Speaker, North East which has now got the position of Senate president, North Central has the position of Deputy Speaker. “Considering the zoning arrangement, it is clear that the North West has been left behind and I am a ranking senator from the North West. That means the Deputy Senate President position should go to North West” Calling on Nigerians to rise above ethnic consideration and ensure that the most qualified persons are elected into positions instead employing sentiments to determine appointments, the lawmaker, who is from Kano state said that APC has after careful study of the event, has begun work on the right part to give Nigerians the change preached. He said there was nothing wrong with the Northern part of the country to produce the President and Deputy President of the Senate, neither will it be out of order for President Buhari to come from the same zone with the DSP. He said, “As a former governor, I have the capacity and capability to run the office of the DSP. Politics is leadership. Those who work hard should be rewarded.” Explaining what he will do, Senator Gaya said he would address clog to cohesion in governance for peace and development.