Lagos – One of the challenges facing athletes upon retirement is making effective transition from the world they were used to, to the normal life devoid of strenuous, tight and routine training regime. According to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT research, adjusting to life after retirement is one reality most athletes are scared of and found quite challenging. For instance, physical bodies of athletes have been adjusted to certain training regime as well as diets. So the muscles and other vital organs of the body have been attuned to the stretches and vicissitudes in their linings in accordance with their training schedule. And in the occasion of complete retirement, maintaining a healthy lifestyle becomes a big factor; consequently, the body systems struggle to align with the new life, which, according to Dr. Ibe Nwosu, a medical therapy expert, who spoke to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, might lead to serious health challenges. Meanwhile, this is just one aspect of how ex-athletes would suffer consequences years after retirements, particularly if there was no pro-activeness in the form of financial management and ways of life to prepare the athlete for life after retirement. This discussion became imperative after Christian Chukwu, former Super Eagles captain and coach, was penultimate Friday reportedly stretchered to the hospital over undisclosed ailment. According to images that went viral on the social media, the former captain of Rangers International was assisted by somebody, even with a pair of crutches in a place that actually looked like a hospital. Since the image surfaced, Nigerians have revisited some of the avoidable deaths that had plagued the nation’s sportsmen, particularly former footballers. For example, Sylvester Egbogie, former Green Eagles and Bendel Insurance player, who won the 1973 All African Games football gold, had his two legs amputated after battling diabetes for a very long time without adequate treatment. Sadly, Egbogie’s sorry story is a sad reminder of similar fates that befell their contemporaries, who, in the good old days, were household names. Some of these players were the spectators’ delight and they had attracted cult followership all around the country. But today, some of them are dead unsung and in penury while the few ones living are unpleasantly going through excruciating pains as a result of sicknesses and lack. Some of these players include Haruna Ilerika, Peter Fregene, Peter Anieke, Teslim Balogun, Willy Bazuaye, Anthony Igwe, Augustine Ofuokwu, Samuel Okoye, Segun Olumodeji, Samuel Opone, Oshode Muyiwa, Patrick Okala, Raymond King and Emmanuel Okala, among others. For many of them who are not on the endangered list, the challenge is how to make money. Many are coaches without jobs. And for those who are not out of jobs, it is either the remuneration is insubstantial or not paid. While not mocking any of them, this category has Idowu Otunbusin, Friday Ekpo, Taiwo Oloyede, Etim Etim Snr, Tajudeen Disu, and Bremner Alada, among others. Some of these deaths and debilitating health conditions, according to a writer on an online medium, who craved anonymity, are preventable, accusing the ex-players of being wasteful in their hey days and insensitive to their health on retirement. “While I sympathize with Christian Chukwu in his current predicament, footballers and other artists should save and invest for their old age. Traders and other professionals do not run to government for help in their old age “You cannot squander your huge earnings and live carelessly in your hey days and then run to me for help in your old age.” The assertion about squandering the earnings might look a valid argument looking at some of the contemporary footballers, who have failed to make the best of the opportunities presented to them by their chosen trade. But then, at the time Christian Chukwu and his contemporaries, as well as those before them, played, there was very low income for them, due largely to the fact that there was no urge to play abroad with attendant high income. According to Segun Odegbami, in a chat with SATURDAY INDEPENENT sometimes ago, the emphasis then was not money but the love for the game and the country. He explained that virtually all of them played the game with less emphasis on financial return. But in the light of the deaths and sicknesses of these former players, the question is did they or their employers then do something that would have prepared them for healthy livings after retirement, realising that their work is one that could not have lasted more than 15 years? This is because there have been echoes of the government neglecting former players who served the country meritoriously. From the 1960 generations down to the 1994 generations, the echoes have continued to resonate unabated with virtually all the footballers from these different chronologies having one lamentation or the other about how the government of the day had neglected them after serving the country well. According to Pete Smith, a former professional footballer for Brighton who works as a director and player agent at New Era Global Sports Management, few horror stories of once famous and rich footballers retiring to live in penury and sickness is enough reason for footballers to acquire enough enlightenment and education before or after they quit the sport. “We tell our players that it is crucial to have health and financial planning and to also value money,” he spoke to https://www.telegraph.co.uk/ “You will certainly value it more when you’ve finished because you don’t have it after. There are a few horror stories with high-profile players going bankrupt and, of course, they have no chance of recouping that money again and they also lose their health. It’s gone. It’s done.” Consequently, the XPro, a charity for ex-professional footballers in the United Kingdom, in their recent report, said that two out of every five players are made bankrupt within five years of retiring from professional football and they are also faced with depression and then sickness. These examples are for Nigerian players to realise the place of enlightenment, education and planning for their healthy living before or after quitting the game. Yes, the pre-1994 Nigerian players did not make much from the game but did they plan on healthy living after retiring? Did they plan on how to adjust their former lifestyles and the post-professionalism in order to achieve a balanced and healthy living? What role has the NFF played on this? To help players adjust to lives of health and financial stability after quitting the game, the Professional Footballers’ Association (PFA), the trade union for professional association footballers in England and Wales, recently ran a series of education and qualification courses. In a message on the PFA website, Pat Lally, PFA Director of Education, explains: “We have former players who are now qualified surgeons, forensic scientists, teachers, lawyers, accountants, dog groomers, wine tasters, plumbers and electricians. Remember: football is a short career and you will probably have to earn your living in another industry, so it makes sense to prepare now.” Similarly, a look into players in Nigeria, who went beyond the games to educate themselves have relatively better stories to tell. For example, Segun Odegbami bagged an engineering degree from The Polytechnic, Ibadan. Adokiye Amasiemaka, a contemporary of Odegami and Chukwu, qualified as a lawyer and was one-time attorney general and commissioner for justice in Rivers State. Felix Owolabi, popularly called Owo-Blow, holds a PhD in Physical Education and he acquired that after quitting the game. One thing common to all these aforementioned former players is that much as they might have one or two health issues to battle with due to the fact that they are aging, they have hardly had any serious health challenges requiring emergency responses. This is not affirming that they are relatively healthy on the strength of their academic qualifications, but their trainings might have equipped them with the requisite knowledge to adequately take good care of themselves, particularly by providing them other vocations outside the game of football. For instance, a newspaper report in the UK some years ago reported that Kevin Kyle, a retired Scottish footballer, who played as a centre forward for Sunderland and other clubs, during his active days, was earning £800 a fortnight by working as a store-man on a ship in the Shetland Islands in order to provide for his family. If the Nigerian former players had been actively involved in exploring some knowledge to advance themselves, the issue of health challenges and paucity of fund to take care of such challenges might have been non-existent. Now, this is the era of financial boom in the game as some of Africa’s finest stars in Europe are smiling to the bank weekly. The NFF must, as a matter of urgency, ensure that during international breaks, resource persons are brought in to re-engineer the minds of the players, including the home base ones on the need to invest their time, money and have a good plan towards their retirement.