OMOGBOLAHAN ADISA t was during the visit of all Speakers of state Houses of Assemblies in Nigeria to his palace when they held their con- ference in Lagos. During the visit, the Oba of Lagos, His Royal Majes- ty Rilwan Osuolale Akiolu was profuse in his praises for the host Speaker, Rt Hon Mudashiru Obasa. A man who is well known for his bluntness, Oba Akiolu did not mince words when he stated categorically that Rt Hon Obasa has done remarkably well hence he deserves a second term in office as Speaker of the As- sembly known and called the Assembly Above the Common Standard of Ex- cellence. “Obasa has performed well. He has not only unit- ed the House, he has also brought innovations to the operations of the House. He thoroughly deserves a second term in office as the Speaker of the House,” the monarch who is also the Chairman of the Lagos State Council of Obas and Chiefs, said. The endorsement from the revered monarch summed up a glittering, achievement laden and re- cord breaking four years in office for arguably the youngest Speaker the Lagos State House of Assembly has ever had. When he assumed of- fice on 8 June 2015, Obasa promised positive changes in the House of Assembly and four years later, even his greatest adversary rise up in acknowledgement of his superlative perfor- mance. In mid-2016, this writer, a journalist who covers the activities of the House but not on the accredited list, visited the House. That sun- ny afternoon, the workers in the Assembly were grin- ning from ear to ear. They were singing the praises of the Speaker. On enqui- ries, one of the workers informed this writer the reason for their joy. “The Speaker just in- creased our  allowances across board. This is in- deed a new dawn in the op- eration of this House,” the woman, a senior staff of the Assembly said. This writer was moved to tears reading an apprecia- tion letter sent to Rt. Hon. Obasa by a new  recruit into the Lagos Neighbour- hood Safety Corps. The man had been looking for job after graduation from the university for almost five years. When the recruitment drive into the Neighborhood Watch commenced, he decided to try his luck. He did and he was successful and the happy man penned a letter of appreciation to the Speaker, who was the initiator of the Private Member Bill that led to the establishment of the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps which led to the employment of thousands of applicants. “I join the All Progressives Congress (APC) not only because the party has the interest of the people at heart but also because of the leadership and unifying qualities and attitude of Rt. Hon Mudashiru Obasa as the Speaker of the 8th Assembly. Obasa has been able to unify the House and due to his humane nature and leadership qualities, the House has been operating as a unit”. This was the comment of Hon Hakeem Olusola Sokunle representing Oshodi-Isolo State Constituency 1 when seven of the eight members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the House defected to the APC. Sokunle’s counterpart from Oshodi-Isolo State Constituency 2, Hon Jude Idimogu corroborated Sokunle’s claim. “You know I’m the only Ibo member of this House but nobody is discriminating against me. Rt. Hon Obasa is a God-fearing Leader and his qualities and unifying attitude was one of the major reasons my colleagues and I defected to the APC,” he said. Over the course of his tenure, Rt Hon Obasa has initiated more than six Private Member Bills. No Speaker has achieved this in the history of the Lagos State House of Assembly. Apart from the Bill on Neighbourhood Watch, another Bill of such importance is the Yoruba Language Protection and Preservation Bill. Worried by gradual extinction of the Yoruba language, Obasa initiated the Bill which has improved the use of the language. Today, Yoruba language teaching and learning has been made compulsory for schools and tertiary institutions in Lagos State. “I’m impressed with what Speaker Obasa is doing in Lagos and we urge other state House of Assembly in the Southwest region to emulate Lagos. Lagos State House of Assembly under the leadership of Speaker Obasa is leading the struggle for the emancipation of Yoruba language and we should appreciate and encourage them,” this was the comment of the Oonirisa, His Imperial Majesty, Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi when the number one Yoruba monarch led a large retinue of aides to observe plenary session in Yoruba language by the Lagos State House of Assembly. The Owa Obokun of Ijesaland, His Royal Majesty Adekunle Aromolaran has equally observed the Yoruba sitting of the House. The visit of the Yoruba monarchs to observe plenary session was also the first time this would happen in the history of the House. Prior to the ascension of office of Rt Hon Obasa, the social media network of the House was moribund. But the Speaker would have none of it. Through his efforts, the Social media network of the House is up running. To cap it, the House plenary sessions are now being steamed life. The first and only Parliament doing that in Nigeria and second only to the South Africa Parliament in the African continent. Perhaps the greatest achievement of the Obasa administration is the commencement of the Constituency Stakeholdes Meeting which takes place simultaneously in all the 40 state constituencies in the state. This has become an annual ritual for the people of Lagos State because it affords them the opportunity to take on their representatives, tell them their demands and offer suggestions on governance. Since the introduction of this programme, it has improved people’s participation in governance as the reports of the Meetings have formed integral components of the state Annual Budget Proposals. There is no doubt that Obasa has performed creditably well and not a few Lagosians believe in and support his “Speak Again” agenda.