Makurdi – Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), the military spike operation in Benue State, said it burst an arms manufacturing syndicate in Benue State on Tuesday. It also said it has discovered two of the arms factory owned by the syndicate which are located at Tine Nune, a local community in Ukum Local Government Area (LGA) of the state. The spike operation said it also neutralised four herdsmen in an encounter with the armed nomads in Logo LGA of the state about two weeks ago. Major General Adeyemi Yekini, the Commander, OPWS, disclosed this at the Air Force Base, the administrative headquarters of OPWS in Makurdi, on Monday, while parading two of the suspects allegedly engaged in arms manufacturing. Among those arrested were Engineer Cephas Terseer Ati, who is alleged to be the chief manufacturer, and his supposed driver, Teryila Mnzughga. Capt. Samuel Okenarhe, the Sector Commander in the zone, who spoke under the directive of Major General Yekini, pointed out that the suspects were picked up based on intelligence gathered five weeks ago. He explained that the operation had intelligence that there were arms manufacturers in the area who were in the business of supplying arms to communities in Benue and Taraba states. Following this intelligence, Okenarhe noted that men of OPWS picked up Ati last Tuesday at Anyiin in Logo LGA of the state, who had in his possession a locally manufactured AK47 and other locally made pistols. The sector commander also said they raided one of the factories where they impounded assorted locally made weapons and equipment used in the manufacture of the weapons. He observed that some members of the syndicate got wind of the raid on the first factory and were able to evacuate the second one before they got to it. However, Major General Yekini, who pointed out that under interrogation the suspects had given them a list of their customers in the two states, said his men were on the trail of other members of the syndicate. Confessing his involvement, the prime suspect, Cephas Ati, said he got involved, two years ago, in what he said was a partnership with other members of the syndicate, who are currently at large, when he returned from Europe. Even though he confessed his role in the manufacture of equipment used in manufacturing the weapons, he, however, said he was not the actual manufacturer of the weapons. NAF Neutralises Invading Bandits In Zamfara Villages Meanwhile, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has said its Special Forces (SF) team successfully repelled attacks by bandits who attempted to invade Hayin Mahe and Hayin Kanawa villages in Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara. Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, in a statement on Monday in Abuja, said that the attack by the bandits was carried out on Sunday. According to him, the prompt response of the Special Forces team followed intelligence reports of the activities of the bandits in the area. He said that the bandits, who operated from Sububu and Kagara forests, had attacked the villages and kidnapped some of its inhabitants. Daramola said the timely response of the Special Forces team resulted in a gun duel with the bandits who eventually fled into the forest. “The gallant NAF SF personnel pursued the bandits into the forest, overpowering them and neutralising five bandits, while many others escaped with various gunshot wounds,” he said.