Igoniko Oduma, Kofa Kings Yenagoa / Ughelli – Gunmen Sunday night killed a pregnant woman and 15 others in Numa village of Akwanga Local Government Area of Nasarawa State during a naming ceremony. Samuel Mashi, Chairman of Akwanga Local Government of Nasarawa State told newsmen on Monday in Akwanga that the gunmen attacked the community about 10p.m during a naming ceremony. “They just started shooting sporadically on a community that was just having merriment. “Unfortunately 16 people were killed in cold blood for just no reason,” he said. The chairman said that security had been beefed up in the affected community and environs to forestall reprisal attacks and further breakdown of law and order. Similarly, Samson Gamu-Yare, Chun-Mada and Chairman, Traditional Council of Akwanga, described the attack as barbaric. He added that apart from the 16 people killed, so many others were injured and are receiving treatment in various hospitals. He called on the state and Federal Government to urgently fish out the perpetrators of the attack. The monarch urged people of the affected community to remain law abiding even in the face of the unprovoked attack. Confirming the incident, Mohammed Akira, Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Criminal Investigation Department (CID), said the command had mobilised to the area to forestall further breakdown of law and order. It would be recalled that gunmen had in March 2019 attacked and killed people in Merte and Nandem communities of the same LGA. Jealous Lover Kills Dead Girlfriend In Bayelsa Similarly, Oluasiri, a sleepy community in Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, has been thrown into grief after a jealous boyfriend named Munabo Tonworio allegedly killed his girlfriend, identified as Wapaemi Amabebe, on the suspicion that she was cheating on him. It was gathered that the incident, which happened Sunday night, shook the community to its foundation as the people struggled to come to terms with the horror. Munabo, a 28-year-old from Agada-Ama, also in Nembe LGA, was said to have shot her in the face with a gun as she answered a phone call from an unidentified person. The deceased, 34, from Oluasiri, was said to have been habouring her lover boy-turned killer from the prying eyes of security agents over alleged crimes he had committed. She was said to have been responsible for his upkeep throughout the period she kept him in her house. It was learnt that Munabo was allegedly on the wanted list of the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Joint Task Force in the Niger Delta, also called Operation Delta Safe (OPDS). A community source said he took to his heels after murdering his girlfriend, but he was arrested and tied close to her lifeless body. When contacted, Asinim Butswat, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Bayelsa State Police Command, confirmed the incident. He said: “On 14/4/2019 at about 22:45hours, one Munabo Tonworio ‘m’, 28 years, shot dead his lover, one Victoria Ekalamene ‘f’, 34 years, after a quarrel at the residence of the deceased in Oluasiri, Nembe Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. “The murder weapon, a locally cut-to-size gun, and expended AA ammunition were recovered from the scene. The suspect has been arrested and is being detained at the SCIID, Yenagoa. Investigation is ongoing.” Three Construction Workers Drown In Ojobo Creek In Delta In another development, three construction workers drowned on Thursday evening in Delta State. The incident happened opposite Ayamasa community waterside, along the Ojobo creek in Burutu Council Area. The tragedy occurred about 7:30p.m when a canoe conveying four persons, including the ferry woman, capsized few metres from shoreline, killing three persons overboard. Ayamasa community is under the Ekeremor Council Area of Bayelsa State and it is along the banks of the Ojobo creek river that serves as a natural boundary separating Delta and Bayelsa states. A source from Ayamasa community, identified as Lusan Akpens, said the four persons were taking a short cut to the community through a canoe from opposite the community which falls under Delta State, when the tragedy happened. Akpens said when news of the incident got to the community, local divers could not swing into action since it was late in the night. The source said the bodies of the three drowned construction workers were recovered Friday night and that one of the deceased was discovered to be holding firmly on to his mobile phone, so the SIM card from the phone was used to contact his family members. He said the three corpses had since been buried according to Islamic rite.