LAGOS – Since receiving his cer- tificate of Return from INEC Chairman, Pro- fessor Yakubu Mah- mood, President Muhammad Buhari has been receiving congratulatory messages and goodwill visitors since the past one month now. As well he has also been receiving knocks from informed citi- zens, especially economist and development experts, the academia, labour and or- ganized private sector opera- tors for hyping his capability to grow the economy and im- prove the living standards of Nigerians to “the next level” ones again before looking at the books. It’s like a day after the party. The first set of group to remind the President that they are still awake and that their decision last February to sheath earlier planned na- tionwide strike because of the general election should not be taken that they have lost focus and have forgotten is the Nigerian Labour Con- gress (NLC). Late March 31st, the Pres- ident signed the Minimum Wage to Act. But that is only one of the major hurdles the Buhari Government and the governors are going to con- tend with in the days ahead as most governors and their prospective successors face debt crisis and domestic wor- ries after spending heavily for the elections, some of which are yet to be completed in some parts of the country. One of the biggest wor- ries is that Nigeria is going to be spending heavily in servicing debts—some N2.1 trillion, leaving much less for other critical capital projects. These fears have caused government to tinker with the idea of raising some taxes to shore up its ability to meet other commitments. The presidency had thought about raising VAT from the current 5%.Certain goods critical to growth of some sectors enjoy zero VAT. Zero rate applies to goods and services including: non- oil exports; commercial aircraft and spare part im- ports; certain humanitarian initiatives; machinery and equipment used in the sol- id minerals sector; exports; agricultural equipment; commercial vehicles; basic foodstuffs; postal; residential rents; medical and pharma- ceutical supplies; education and related materials; a lim- ited range of financial ser- vices; books and newspapers. Although government has not come up with fur- ther clarified much on its implementation, concerned Nigerians had warned that any form of VAT increase would hurt rather help the economy, APC leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu had during Buhari his 67th birthday urged Pres- ident Buhari not to contem- plate anything about VAT increase, but rather attempt to increase the tax basket, a suggestion which the PDP Vice Presidential candidate Mr Peter Obi endorsed after- wards. Daily Independent in this research-based report high- lights some policy actions the Federal Government can take to boost revenue profile for funding the 2019 budget. One of the major issues fuelling Nigeria’s develop- ment challenges has been identified as its budget, man- ifested in the processes, qual- ity and the will to implement capital budget items. Experts say these have given way to corruption, bred by alleged fictitious, duplicated and ambiguous items, extra-bud- getary expenditures, revenue leakages and failed imple- mentation of capital votes. In the 2019 budget propos- al, like the past years, there is still high suspicion that the menace lurks around, despite a raised optimism on a positive outcome from the economic document. An economist, Martins Elenwo, told journalists at post budget parley recently that the problem of the coun- try is not much about docu- ments’ contents, but the will and patriotism to translate the contents in totality to reality. “Otherwise, tell me why a N3.5 trillion recurrent non-debt expenditure for 2018, will be fully implement- ed, but a N2.3 trillion capital expenditure will be difficult to implement. Even when there are claims of imple- mentation, government will find it difficult to list proj- ects and the amounts spent on them publicly” . Another pessimist of Bu- hari’s ability to achieve his “next level” campaign is an avowed restructuring cam- paigner, Chief Aloma Nwa- chukwu, a Lagos based busi- nessman engaged in import and export. He suggested that EFCC should beam its searchlight on Federal Gov- ernment cabinet members in order to identify those who might have tampered with their ministerial/MDA ap- propriations in the just con- clude Presidential, NASS and gubernatorial elections. He asserts that unless this is doneunpretentiously,Buhari might not be able to know how far the 2019 appropria- tions and spending plans had already been sabotaged along with his “next level rhetoric even before his swearing-in. There is a general belief that Nigeria consumes many foreign