Lagos – African Union (AU) and other stakeholders in the continent have been urged to mount pressure on the Sudanese military, which suspended the country’s constitution as well plans to hold power for two years, to as soon as possible restore power to the civilian government. Speaking with Daily Independent on Thursday on the military coup in Sudan and ousting of the longest serving leader, Omar al-Bashir, Dr. Sharkdam Wapmuk, a Senior Research Fellow, Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), noted that it is unconstitutional for the military to act in such a manner. He stated that the AU holds a very strong position against the unconstitutional change of government in any country on the continent, which of course, includes Sudan. The research fellow said that even though al-Bashir had been in power for about three decades, the sit-tight-syndrome is not peculiar to Sudan but is common among other African leaders. While calling the military coup in Sudan and suspension of the constitution an aberration, Wapmuk noted that “it is not a norm, in which case, a lot of pressure will have to come from the African Union and various regional organisations to ensure that Sudan returns to the path of constitutional government as soon as possible.” Commenting on agitations by Sudanese people for return of power to civilians, he said that they have every right to agitate for civilian rule in the country, adding that “This calls for concerted efforts on the part of stakeholders, not only from Sudan but also from neighbouring countries and interested parties to ensure that power is restored.” He said that efforts to restore power to civilians by the military will also require the formation of a transition government by civilians so that elections can hold as soon as possible. The research fellow, however, noted that it is true that there had been increased tension in recent times, from various people, wanting a change of government, but added that “it had been long in coming because to some extent, al-Bashir was under a lot of pressure arising from internal challenges, majorly from politics.” Wapmuk stated that before the separation of the two states, creation of South Sudan out of Sudan, there were a lot of issues particularly those of the Diasporas and other rebel movements, which actually wanted to ensure that some semblance of democracy took place within the place. He said that even before these, there had been a lot of conflicts within the African Union, and peace had been far from being achieved, particularly in South Sudan than in Sudan. He urges Sudanese, who are agitating for return of civil rule to remain calm as more protests and chaos in the country could lead to more loss of lives.