LAGOS – The Enugu State Government has denied media reports that ailing Christian Chukwu, former Super Eagles captain and manager, need foreign medical treatment after he was stretchered to Parklane Hospital in Enugu over undisclosed ailment. The state government on Wednesday stated in a statement signed by Ogbuagu Anikwe, the Commissioner for Information, that Chukwu would have to be flown abroad for further treatment if the doctors treating him have requested for that. “To date, the doctors taking care of Chukwu have not released a medical report of his health condition to anyone, not even to the state government that has been picking up his bills. It is, therefore, curious how anyone without this information could have determined that Christian Chukwu needs oversea medical care, and pre-empt the cost of this oversea care. “This point needs restating: the medical director of the hospital is also as surprised as we are that someone in the USA who is not privy to a medical report on Chukwu’s condition can determine that (a) Chukwu needs a treatment abroad (b) the cost of such treatment, and (c) even without Chukwu or any member of his family asking for a second medical opinion or for treatment abroad,” the release read in part. Continuing, Anikwe stated, “Our intervention on this matter has become necessary to clear the air on the spate of misinformation, disinformation and outright mischief that otherwise well-intentioned commentators have continued to dish out, based on the misguided efforts of a friend of the football legend who is giving a false impression that Chukwu is a destitute old man, perhaps in a bid to whip up public sympathy that enables him meet his goal of raising money to help his friend. “The Enugu State government notes that the negative stories surrounding Chukwu’s condition originated from the desperation of his friend in the US who is falsely claiming in his appeal fund drive message that Chukwu has been “abandoned.” “Finally, if at any time the hospital doctors or the Chukwu family indicate that oversea treatment is required, the Enugu State Government will be notified and will respond appropriately.” Anikwe added that the state government was responsible for his medical bill, amounting to N2.7 million. “When Chukwu’s health situation was brought to the attention of his employer – Rangers Management Corporation, he was rushed to one of the best medical facilities in Enugu where a team of five specialists have been attending to him. “The management of Rangers Management Corporation immediately deposited N200,000 with this health facility to begin his treatment. “On hearing about his health condition, Gov. Ugwuanyi gave an additional N1.5million to the Commissioner for Youth and Sports to give to the family — in order to ensure that the football legend did not lack anything that the team of specialists may require to manage his condition. “The Governor has also given an additional N1million to the family when the doctors demanded for a further deposit, bringing the total amount disbursed by Gov. Ugwuanyi and the Rangers Management to the Chukwu family to N2.7million.”