Lagos – Gernot Rohr, Super Eagles coach, has admitted there is problem in the team’s goalkeeping department ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) that will kick off in Egypt on 21 June and ends 19 July 2019. The coach confessed during a Radio Sports programme monitored in Lagos on Thursday that he was not settled with his keepers’ department just yet, and promised to keep making checks on each of the keepers. He said that there was the need for more competition to ascertain the country’s first choice goalkeeper ahead of the tournament. “I’m still facing some difficulties in the goalkeeping department. I hope they keep improving. “I have tested several goalkeepers. I’m still searching for a preferable one and my agents are doing their best. “I am not slamming the goalkeepers. I’m urging them to keep improving because the fans and I will not be happy conceding goals due to errors. “They have to show to me they are the best and I am happy they are aware we are having a short period of time for preparation,” he said. While hinting Nigerians of his plans, heading to the AFCON 2019 kick-off in June, Rohr stressed that the Eagles’ goalkeeping department was not done and dusted, but said competition for spots was heating up. Rohr is happy to see Francis Uzoho back in action at club level, following his January transfer window move from Elche of Spain to Anorthosis Famaghusta of Cyprus. Although he acknowledged that Uzoho has faced some controversial issues in Cyprus, which also kept him out for six matches in the league, Rohr stressed that having a club where he can play regularly was a step in the right direction for him, and wants same for all the other keepers. It would be recalled that since the health problem of erstwhile first choice goalkeeper, Carl Ikeme, Rohr has stayed glued to Uzoho despite his constant mistakes at major matches and relegated home boy, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, whom many football pundits preferred ahead of Uzoho. “Uzoho remains the best in the Super Eagles team and he is still my first choice ahead of others in the team”, Rohr was once quoted. However, after his (Uzoho) howler in the last AFCON qualifier against the Pirates of Seychelles at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, where he gifted the Pirates a goal in the Super Eagles 3-1 victory, Rohr has decided to really have a rethink over him.