Comrade Debo Adeniran is the Executive Chairman of the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the achievements of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in Lagos State, even as he proffered a second agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari. Excerpts: Against the convention in the All Progressives Congress (APC), the party’s leadership in Lagos did not back Governor Akinwunmi Ambide for the second term. What do you really think happened between him and the party leaders to warrant their action? I think the APC leaders have the right to determine how to run their party in accordance to what the people want or the interests of the party. They did not consider the corporate gains the Ambode’s four year administration brought to the party and the credibility the party gained by his style of governance, or how passionate he was in the execution and implementation of the party’s programmes and manifesto before they took the decision to deny him a second term. That decision against Ambode has been antithetical to the Progressive tenets. A party that associated itself with the progressive tenets should up the ante. It was important that a performing governor was played out in the power equation. It would have been different if he had said that he would not do a second term or if there was a protest against him. But, because Ambode did not yield to pecuniary interest of the party leaders, they had to sacrifice him. The implication is that whoever becomes the governor will still learn the ropes before he can get down to the real business of governance. That will be a setback to the governance of Lagos. Secondly, any other governor will be careful before giving his best. He will think twice before following due process in giving contracts and executing projects to ensure that the interest of the people takes priority against other services. Such a governor will consolidate his hold before thinking of good governance and respect for the principle and policies of the party that brought him to power. If the incoming governor does not have a mind of his own, he will take dictations of the party leaders and take dictation from service providers and contractors who are also the party leader who can blackmail him for the good work he has started. One of the allegations against Governor Ambode was that he distorted the 50 years Lagos Masterplan. How true is this allegation and did this distortion impacted on Lagosians? When Ambode was accused of distorting the Lagos Masterplan, they did not come out with evidence of the distortion. Masterplan is made for the people. In fact, he upped the quality of the masterplan. Oshodi is a symbol of the masterplan that is suitable for a mega city. Ambode is committed to healthcare for the generality of Lagosians.  They had a masterplan that would have favoured the elites and disfavoured the poor. They can call a dog a bad name to hang it. Is it a distortion to expand the roads in Ikorodu to save people from accidents? Could the establishment of forensic hospital in Lagos also a distortion of the masterplan? Is it that they don’t like state-of-the-art equipment to enhance healthcare? Is the establishment of modern motor parks and bus stops also the distortion of the masterplan? Is the payment of salaries a distortion of the masterplan? Or is it the establishment of Procurement Procedure a distortion of the masterplan? Even if Ambode distorted the Lagos masterplan, is it the party that should cry out or the people? Why is the party leaders that did not see the negligence of Lagosians by Fashola had the moral right to say that Ambode distorted the masterplan? Would you say that the establishment of Visionscape waste management company was really a bad decision considering the controversies it generated and the fact that the state has continued to grapple with waste management issues? I believe that every administration has its plans to deliver health and hygiene of the citizenry. Visionscape is a project to enhance the beauty of Lagos. But, the transition might not have been smooth as there were heaps of wastes everywhere. The idea of Visionsape was good, but Lagosians were not made to understand the difference between Visionscape and the PSP. Any new idea may have been difficult to introduce. People are naturally resistant to change. When people were aggrieved that their sustenance had been affected, the government should have settled them and educated them on the new idea. Visionscape started well in terms of equipment. But their efforts could have been sabotaged thereby pitching the citizens against the idea. Whatever was the idea, it ought to have been ironed out with the other arms of the government, like the legislature and the local governments. The government could have done more to convince the local governments and the lawmakers on what difference Visionscape could have brought to Lagosians. No wonder, the Speaker of the state House of Assembly described Visionscape as Ghosts. It is a low side of the Ambode administration, but Ambode meant well. Now that the election has come and gone, what is your advice to the APC leadership on how to reunite all aggrieved camps of the party, especially Ambode’s supporters, against the backdrop of reports that all has not been well between the governor and Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State governor-elect? Both the governor and the governor-elect have denied that they are in acrimony. The party should try to resolve the issue. There is no doubt that a cross section of the party is aggrieved, especially the Ambode’s supporters. No aggrieved side will be happy. There should be no victor and no vanquished. Ambode should be respected and commended for rejecting all temptations of trying to jump the ship. Even at the threat of impeachment, some other governors could have defected to another party knowing that he had a large followership. For one who is not committed to the party, he could have preferred impeachment knowing that a large chunk of the citizenry could have gone with him this could have been disastrous to the party in the last election. But, he succumbed to the entreaty of the party. He has been obedient to the dictates of the party. Considering the fact that Governor Ambode is a technocrat, do you think he should be considered as a member of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term team not minding his disagreement with the party leaders in Lagos? Now that the elections have come and gone and Ambode has helped the APC to be victorious in Lagos at all levels, he should be given a good office at the federal level. Ambode has a lot to show in his performance in Lagos. He will be a booster to the achievements of the federal government if he is allowed to be part of President Buhari’s team. He will perform well as Minister of Finance. He handled contractors well. Most of the jobs were done on time. There were no kickbacks. The CACOL team discovered this during our budget implementation tour. As Minister of Finance, there will be more prudent management of the nation’s finances. I totally agree that President Buhari should invite Ambode as a member of his team and give him a position that will test his mettle as a technocrat and he will surely excel and improve on the governance process. What agenda would you proffer for President Buhari in his second term? All over the years, we have been looking for someone who will carry out anti-corruption governance. President Muhammadu Buhari may not be perfect. But, he has given teeth to the anti-graft war. Our job has been made easier. Anti-corruption agencies have more powers now under him. So, we are happy he won. He has given the anti-graft agencies a lot moral support. He retained Ibrahim Magu as the EFCC Chairman, notwithstanding the pressure mounted on him by the National Assembly and he (Magun) has been performing. President Buhari appointed Professor Bola Awesoyi as the ICPC head. He has come up with a lot of papers on anti-corruption fight. We have seen his efforts so far. Several properties of corrupt individuals have been seized. Several instruments of anti-corruption war have been operationalised. These have made it difficult for people to steal money and get away with it. That is why people now voluntarily return looted money or abandoning them. If this continues, the battle against corruption would have been won. What other things do you think President Buhari should do in the next four years? Still on his second term agenda, Buhari should equip those fighting insurgency with more training and equipment. This will make those fighting the insurgents to be more committed. They should be given more training, more equipment to make the war more effective. President Buhari should monitor where the money goes. On the economy, enabling environment for business should be created. Ease of doing business should be encouraged. Taxes should be reviewed. Social welfare facilities for people should be created. Education should be made free. Healthcare should be free. People should not die or suffer intractable incapacities because they do not have money. Roads should be made good. There should be policy on food security. There should be marketing boards for all produce. Every business should be made to succeed. There should be reduction of importation of goods into the country. Whatever can be manufactured here should not be imported. Every capable hand should be occupied in a job. Anyone who cannot work should be put in a home where they should learn how to be useful to society. People should not be spared when they commit avoidable crimes. President Buhari should give people new lease of life. He should confiscate anything acquired through corruption and the people jailed. They should be made to work in prison and should not just be taken care of in prison. They should serve as a lesson to all Nigerians and the society will be sanitised and government money will be safe. What is your take on the militarisation of the Nigerian elections? It is not the Nigerian elections that elicited militarisation. Given the circumstances the elections were conducted, the threats across the country, all hands had to be on the deck to ensure that the elections were peaceful. See what has been happening in the North East where the Boko Haram has been killing people. See what has been happening in the North Central where the herdsmen have been attacking citizens. Look at the killings in Southern Kaduna and the separatist threats in the South East. If the military were not brought out and anything happened, people would blame the government. Policemen took part in the elections. The military only escorted sensitive materials. Those at the road blocks were civil. I see the involvement of the military as preemptive measure against unforeseen circumstances that could work against the elections. In parts of Niger Delta, we know that the zone is perpetually under threat of violence. Rivers State has always been violent. So, the military was necessary. If they operated in a way they should not, such officers should be investigated and punished. If such pre-emptive measure was not taken and there was trouble, people would have blamed the government.