PORT HARCOURT – The declaration of the win- ner of the March 9, 2019 governorship election in Rivers state last Wednes-day, April 3, 2019 by the Indepen- dent National Electoral Commis- sion, (INEC), finally put to rest a long season of nightmare, anxiety and apprehension. Though in the eyes of ordinary Nigerians, the ruling political party in the state, the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, looked good to win the election with rela- tive ease, there were so many forc- es militating against such walk in a pleasure park. The election later turned out to be a real war of attrition between two known brothers. But political observers knew that the election in Rivers state would be a hard nut to crack es- pecially if the PDP was up against the All Progressives Congress (APC), with the senator repre- senting Rivers east senatorial district, Magnus Abe as its can- didate. Unfortunately, the implosion within the opposition party weak- ened the strength of what would have been an epic royal rumble. There was a total absence of com- petitiveness in the party which led to its expulsion from the bal- lot papers. Wike’s journey towards victory could be traced to a combustive meeting held at the instance of the Minister of transportation, Rotimi Amaechi at The Dome located on Odili road in Port Harcourt, the Rivers state cap- ital sometime in 2017. At the meeting, Amaechi unilaterally picked Tonye Dele Cole, as the party’s governorship candidate. This man has been known to be the minister’s business partner over the years. Not a full fletched politician. Amaechi’s choice of Tonye Cole infuriated the Magnus Abe’s camp exceedingly and bred bad blood and suspicion in the party. Things started falling apart with a speed of light and the center could not hold any longer. Abe had to brace the odds and went ahead to bluff the minister’s directive by picking a form for the governorship election . Neverthe- less, the choice of Tonye Cole, on the other hand sparked jubilation in the Wike’s camp. Reason? The business man is no match to Wike politically. So, contesting an elec- tion against him would be a walk over for the PDP. Election in the Rivers state rests on a tripod of popularity, free handedness and acceptance. Tonye lacks the three ingredients. The avalanche of litigations within the APC instituted by members further weakened the resolve of the Rivers state oppo- sition party to clinch power from the ruling PDP. Things went so bad in the party that it broke into factions with Senator Abe run- ning a different secretariat from Amaechi’s. At the end of the day when compromise could not be reached, APC was expunged from the ballot by the INEC following the directives of the Court ruling. One would have thought that Wike with APC out of the way, Gov- ernor Nyesom Wike of the PDP could go to sleep while the elec- tion lasted. Rather, Amaechi was ready to do “battle” with his for- mer chief of staff whether or not APC was on the ballot. On February 11, barely few days to the Presidential elec- tion, Amaechi in company of his party’s presidential candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari stormed the Adokie Amiesimeka stadium for a presidential rally where he alleged that Governor Wike was lobbying the presiden- cy to return as governor. He said there was a cross purpose barter trading of Wike working for Bu- hari’s presidency while he (Wike) should be allowed to return as governor of Rivers state. Amaechi did not stop there. Af- ter a widely condemned war song sang in Igbo language with a com- memorative dance step, he said he was ready than ever before to do battle with Wike and the PDP. Hear this: “Whatever PDP wants in Rivers State, we are equal to the task. In 2015, the army tried to ar- restmeasasittinggovernor.Now, we have a governor who is trying to negotiate with us, asking us to give him governor and in return, he will support us for President. He is afraid, isn’t it? We will battle him to the last”. Not done, Amaechi went on to say that “On Saturday (day of Presidential election), we are ready for them. They used feder- al and state institutions against us. They used to kill our people every day. Because they want to deny us the right to choose our leaders, they ran to a state High Court judge to give them judg- ment. Saturday is our day.” Not quite thirty minutes afte that drama was unfolded at the podium by the minister who also doubled as Buhari’s campaign director general, more than fourteen people died at the gate of the stadium and scores more were rushed to the hospital for immediate medical care. Stunned by this threat, the Riv- ers state government through its Commissioner for information, Barr Emmah Okah said: “This threat is deeply frightening and all well-meaning Nigerians and indeed members of the interna- tional community should take note of this threat from high quarters which the world heard Amaechi directly or live on Channels Tele- vision, right before President Mu- hammadu Buhari and yet nobody reprimanded him. Just a day or two to the general elections, Amaechi formed an al- liance with a relatively unknown party, African Action Congress, AAC, whose candidate, Awara Biokpomabo has never been mentioned in any political gath- ering in the state. The minister in- structed his supporters to throw their weight behind the candidate and vote Wike out of power. If every spoken word is a seed planted, then that seed germinat- ed in Abonnema, Akuku Toru local government area of Rivers state on February 23, the day of the presidential election. Reports said over fifty persons including soldiers were killed on Election Day. It was a battle. Also on March 9 of the gover- norship and House of Assembly elections, situation did not fare any better. Soldiers and men in military fatigue were unleashed everywhere. It was a real war sit- uation. Armor tanks rolled freely. The booming sound of gunshots reverberated everywhere. Many people still died because it was a war declared to happen. Dr. Fer- ry Gberegbe, INEC ad hoc staff in Khana local government area during the election was one of such casualties. He was allegedly shot in the stomach by a trigger happy F-SARS operative. Justice not yet executed. After the election with seven- teen local government areas re- sults in INEC’s kitty, remaining six, Wike’s night became unusu- ally longer a century, the next day,March10INECinitswisdom chose to suspend every electoral process in the state until further notice. While the electoral lull last- ed, many waters passed under the bridge. There was a gale of sponsored protests and press conferences in quick succession from both camps. Accusations and counter-accusations rented the air. Curses upon curses were hurled by old and young. And a space of one kilometer radius on Aba road where INEC office is located in Port Harcourt was barricaded. No vehicular move- ment. It brought untold hardship to motorists in the state. Investigation showed that even INEC’s senior officials were un- der intense pressure from a higher authority to compromise morals. Money was offered to sub- vert justice. It was turned down. Emissaries were dispatched from neighboring state to compromise INEC officials. It was rebuffed. The ensued frustration sparked up the paid protests that called for the redeployment of some senior staff of the Commission. Call it a mind game but all came to naught. After weeks of anxiety, rising blood pressure and frustration, Professor Teddy Adias of the Federal University of Otueke, Bayelsa state who was the IN- EC’s Returning Officer, declared that Wike won the election with 886,264 votes to defeat Biokpoma- bo Awara, of the African Alliance Congress (AAC), who scored 173,859 votes. Wike of the Peoples’ Demo- cratic Party, PDP, defeated his challenger with 712,405 votes margin to win by a landslide. Adias said that the total number of registered voters was 3,048,741, accredited voters 1,130,445, valid votes cast 1,102,823, total votes cast, 1,123,840 and voided votes, 249,324.