LAGOS – Hon. Biodun Salami, Assistant Public Relations Officer, All Progressives Congress (APC), Lagos State chapter, has said the party garnered so much votes during the last governorship election because it worked very hard to deplete the opposition to achieve landslide victory. Speaking to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Monday, he said that the party, though was in power, worked hard to achieve victory as if it was in the opposition. He maintained that the party did not neglect anybody, but went all out to Lagosians to solicit for their votes, stressing that the opposition was not visible. Salami said that all APC members, the governorship candidate and his running mate met with market people, artisans and elites to achieve the result it got in the last election, noting that it was the best strategy to win an election. He said: “One of the strategies that we used, which worked perfectly for us was to deplete the opposition. Our victory was not a surprise to us. Our target was less than what we got. “ We had planned to clear about three or four million votes in Lagos. “We also achieved because we were able to equate that with what we have been doing in the state. Lagosians are highly educated, civilised and highly exposed. We gave them reason to vote for us based on our pedigree. Lagosians are not tired of us because we have continued to improve every day. “What you see on Airport road is being done by Lagos State and not Federal Government. The road is almost completed. If you go to Oshodi, you will see our handwork. We take the bull by the horn in Lagos State, telling the people that this is our state. “Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was in leadership at the federal level for 16 years with nothing to show for it. The people are not fools. The people feel very comfortable with APC and that is why they have always supported us. We don’t sympathise with Lagosians, rather we empathise with them. Salami used the opportunity to clarify speculation of any internal tussle among members of Lagos State House of Assembly (LAHA) as regards the position of Speaker, saying the members were united and did not have any issue on the matter. He said his party had a house style, which would always rely on experience, adding that he did not think there would be changes at the moment. He stated that members of the Assembly relate very well and Hon. Mudashiru Obasa had the experience and capacity to give good leadership, even as he added that the members had the right to chose their leader.