UMUAHIA – As lobbying intensifies for key positions for the 9th Assembly, the leadership of Niger Delta Ethnic Nationalities and All Nigeria Ethnic Nationalities has demanded that the positions of the Deputy Senate President, Speaker of the House of Representatives and Secretary to the Government of the Federation be given to the two ethnic nationalities. The demands and resolutions by the groups came on the heels of a critical deliberation between the Deputy Chairman of Niger Delta Ethnic Nationalities, Comrade Terry Obieh, who led a high powered delegation of Niger Delta Youths and Stakeholders to the Deputy National Chairman of All Nigeria Ethnic Nationalities Youth leaders Forum, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, in Umuahia, Wednesday. Receiving his guests, Isiguzoro who described the existing partnership between the South South and the South East as being tied together by a common destiny said their visit is significant as it would foster the desired unity among Nigerians. Highpoint of their discussions among others were the interest of the two zones in the yet inaugurated 9th National Assembly leadership positions, non-capturing of the South East Zone in the Presidential Amnesty Programme, economic and political development of the zones, felicitation of President Buhari’s victory in the last election and appraisal of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu’s economic policies, especially the Enyimba Economic City which they believed will automatically resolve the issues of Youth restiveness in the Old Eastern Region. “We are seeking partnership with Igbo Youths to storm National Assembly to persuade the Senators and Federal Reps-Elect from South East and South South to ensure the two zones get the Deputy Senate President, Speaker and Secretary of Federal Government (SGF) and denying the two zones these positions would spell doom for Nigeria. “Igbo Youths and Niger Delta Youths jointly will make the zones safe, we observed that Igbo Youths have not been properly captured in Presidential Amnesty Office, especially Abia and Imo states are least in the empowerment of Presidential Amnesty office. “We call for President Muhammadu Buhari’s timely intervention to ensure justice is done to Igbo Youths who are not getting enough from Presidential Amnesty Office,” Isiguzoro said. The Groups applauded the Governors-Elect of the two zones and encouraged them to emulate Governor Okezie Ikpeazu‘s example who in the last four years constituted his cabinet with 50 percent of youths. “We warn that we will not tolerate any form of godfatherism in the South East, which is the bane of development in the zone,” Isiguzoro said. Earlier,  leader of the Niger Delta Delegation, Terry Obieh remarked, “We are seeking partnership with Igbo Youths to storm National Assembly to persuade the Senators and Federal House of Representatives  Elect from South East and South South to ensure the two zones get the Deputy Senate President, Speaker and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF).”