Abuja – Delay by President Muhammadu Buhari to assent and begin implementation of the new national minimum wage pegged at N30,000 for public workers in the country is already causing serious concerns within the rank and file of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). The bill was recently passed by both chambers of the National Assembly and has been transmitted to President Buhari for assent. The delay compelled the leadership of the organised labour to convene a Central Working Committee (CWC) meeting, where they tabled the matter for deliberation. At the meeting, they also raised concerns of proposed increase in Value Added Tax (VAT), insisting that such measures will further impoverish the citizenry. “We commend the National Assembly for passing the bill for a new national minimum wage of N30,000, but urge President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the wage bill without further delay and ensure its speedy implementation. “We reject any move to deny workers the benefit of the new national minimum wage through increase in Value Added Tax (VAT). It was the view of the CWC that increase in VAT would not only further impoverish Nigerian workers but would also deeply hurt the national economy. “Government should look inwards for progressive and sustainable ways of funding the 2019 budget including cutting down on the cost of governance, curbing official graft and expanding the tax net through proper taxation of the rich and luxury items,” a communiqué issued after the meeting which held at Pascal Bafyau Labour House auditorium stated. The CWC which comprises of presidents of NLC, general secretaries of affiliate unions of the congress and members of the National Administrative Council (NAC) also deliberated on growing insecurity in the country, which they urged the Federal Government to urgently put a stop to. “We are deeply concerned about the security situation in the country, especially the killings in Kaduna, Borno, Zamfara, Benue, Enugu, and Katsina states and the escalating wave of terrorism, banditry, kidnapping and militancy in different parts of Nigeria,” they lamented. The labour stakeholders equally criticised the return of long queues at petrol stations in many cities of Nigeria, saying the current spate of panic buying was induced by the advice of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that the Federal Government should stop subsidising refined petroleum products particularly the price of premium motor spirit (PMS). According to organised labour, what the IMF meant by subsidy removal was an increase in the pump price of refined petroleum products which will be largely borne by the downtrodden masses. “The intervention of the IMF in Nigeria has historically been about three issues – the removal of the so-called ‘petrol subsidy’, the devaluation of the naira and the relaxation of Nigeria’s borders to allow the influx of foreign goods into the country. “The CWC observed that the afore-mentioned three economic prescriptions by the IMF do not have the interest of the Nigerian people at heart as they are tailored at further impoverishing the Nigerian masses. “A permanent solution to the reoccurring subsidy debates is to muster the political will to refine for domestic use and stop importation regime and lack of transparency associated with it,” the CWC noted.