Osogbo – There was tension in Ifon Osun in Orolu Local Government Council of Osun state yesterday when some members of the Olumoyero ruling house of the ancient town staged protest, denouncing the Olufon of Ifon Osun, Oba Moruf Adekunle Magbagbeola as the bonafide occupant of the stool . The protesters mainly youths armed with placards with  various  inscriptions alleged that the monarch wrongly ascended the throne of Orolu kingdom asking the monarch to vacate the throne immediately. They further said that Oba Makanjuola was not qualified to ascend the throne on the ground that he is not member of the ruling house. But, Chief Oladepo Akintola, the Baba kekere of Ifon Orolu in a swift reaction to the protest faulted the claims of the protesters describing them as disgruntled elements that only wanted to forment trouble in the ancient town. He debunked all the allegations raised by the protesters saying the claims are primitive, laughable and barbaric warning those behind the protest and claims to desist or face the full wrath of the  law. Chief Akintola said none of the “self acclaimed princes” was a true member of Olumoyero family as they have not  contributed to the development of the family let alone the entire community.He further explained that , immediately after the announcement of Oba Magbagbeola , the aggrieved princes proceeded to court to seek justice, but  failed because they did not have genuine case against the emergence of the monarch. He said  since final  verdict  was given by the appellate court, which affirmed the emergence of Oba Magbagbeola  as the  Olufon, his traducers have been threatened to unseat the monarch . Echoing a similar view, the Eesa of Ifon-Orolu, Alhaji Gasali Durodola,who frowned  at the action of the protesting princes said he would not hesitate to take disciplinary measure against  the protesters.He added that they were not real sons of Ifon-Orolu as majority of them could not prove their originality and they could not be traced to the royal family that they are claiming. Meanwhile, the Olumoyero ruling house, has  informed  the police of plot by some “disgruntled elements” to cause  mayhem in the community over chieftaincy tussle.In a letter by the Olufon of Ifon, Oba  Al-Maroof Adekunle Magbagbeola, Mogaji Karimu Ojolowo Magbagbeola, Prince  Mufutau Mqgbagbeola, Prince Tajudeen Akintola and Prince Musibau Akintola dated 2nd of April, 2019, the Olumoyero family said the information at its disposal shows that the people had perfected the plan to cause confusion and make the community ungovernable for the Olufon of Ifon-Orolu, Oba  Al-Maroof Adekunle Magbagbeola. The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, the Osun State Police Commissioner, Mrs. Abiodun Ige, and the state Department of State Security  were copied in the letter titled, “Petition on Allegation of Disruption of Public Peace.” The royal family identified that Alhaji Moroof Oladimeji Akintola, Prince Mufutau Adebayo, Prince Saheed Adebayo, Prince Kareem Adebayo, Prince Saheed Abass and Princess Kudirat Adebayo as brains behind plot to orchestrate crisis in the community The letter reads in part : “These disgruntled elements, who have misinterpreted the ruling of the Supreme Court on the Olufon tussle, are planning to recruit and mobilize members of the public to attack the palace. Part of their past plot that failed include circulating wrong and libelous information that the incumbent Olufon is not a bonafide member of the Olumoyero royal family. “Their ill intention is aimed at causing chaos and disaffection between our royal father and his subjects. They have even gone farther by threatening lives of key members of the Olumoyero family, especially  those that are close to the palace.”