JOS- Major General Augustine Agundu, the Military Special Taskforce Commander in Plateau State, on Wednesday lauded a non-governmental organisation known as Search for Common Ground (SFCG) for engaging journalists on conflict sensitive training on farmer/herder reportage. Agundu said the training could not have come at a better time than now, when the state was consolidating on the relative peace gained as a result of the hard work by security agencies. Represented by Assistant Commissioner of Police Emmanuel Ado, the deputy commander of the taskforce, Agundu said: “This workshop couldn’t have come at a better time than now when peace is being consolidated.” On his part, Mr. Joseph Lengmang, director general, Plateau Peace Building Agency (PPBA), said that journalists have played a major role in dousing the crisis between herdsmen and farmers. “We cannot compare the crisis of 2008 that engulfed Plateau to what we are experiencing today. The crisis is better managed and what we are hoping is to consolidate on peace effort already on ground,” he stated. Lengmang said the promotion of peace should not be left in the hands of government alone, adding that organisations should continue to engage the media on peace journalism. However, giving an overview of the subject, “Transforming the Farmer Herder Conflict and Promoting Freedom of Religions and Beliefs in Nigeria’s Middle Belt”, the senior programme manager and head of Office Middle Belt, SFCG, Mrs. Falade Olutoyin, posited that the goal of the workshop was to “contribute to preventing violence and the destruction of lives and properties resulting from protracted violent conflicts between farmers and herders while combating impunity and promoting the freedom of religion and belief in the Middle Belt region of Nigeria”. Funded by Kingdom of the Netherlands, Olutoyin said the project was being implemented in selected local government areas oin three states, Plateau, Nasarawa and Benue, which had been experiencing escalation in the violence and the loss of human lives and property as a result of farmers/herders conflicts.