Vice President Yemi Osinbajo revealed in Lagos on Monday that the power sector would witness a turnaround as the Federal Government was set to step into metering in partnership with meter providers. The vice president said the increase in power generation from 4,000 megawatts to 8000 megawatts has failed to translate significantly to better service to electricity consumers in the country. He said: “There is increase in power generation from 4000 megawatts to 8100 megawatts of power, but the effect of the increase in power generation sector has not translated significantly to better service to the consumer and this is mainly due to two factors. The first is transmission and distribution challenges. “Over 2,000 megawatts is not being taken by the DisCos for distribution to the consumers largely due to problems they are experiencing in the collection of tariffs. “One of the reasons for this is that the DisCos themselves have not invested in metering which is why Nigerians get estimated billings. “The truth is that when the privatisation of the power sector was done, a lot of people who invested in DisCos in particular thought it will be one of the generous investments like the telcos where money was made easily. “As it turned out, money was not forthcoming and they became heavily indebted and unable to provide meters and other distribution accessories, this has significantly disrupted electricity distribution to consumers.” The VP revealed this while delivering the 50th convocation lecture of the University of Lagos, ‘Nigeria Rising: The Path to Prosperity’. He disclosed that Nigeria would no longer rely on the DisCos. “We have embarked on a major metering initiative which involves private metering providers. “We are no longer going to wait for DisCos for meters. We are now having a group of meter providers who will provide meters and make power available to those who are willing to pay,” he said. He stated that as part of the new economic initiative, the government would develop a new educational curriculum that emphasised Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics and also emphasised productivity different from the rent-seeking businesses. On road infrastructure development, Osinbajo said the government would build on the successes already recorded in the road and rail projects linking major important commercial centres. He stated that the government had in two budget cycles signed an average of N2.7 trillion on capital which was the highest ever in recent time, adding that part of the achievement included the commissioning of the Lagos-Abeokuta rail under the new standard gauge Lagos-Kano rail. According to him, “The rail originates from the Apapa Port which meant that very soon cargo will be moving by rail out of the port through the hinterland and out all the way to the North. This will significantly ameliorate the congestion we have been experiencing before.” He described the expansion of facilities at the port as an important issue in the direction of the fresh economic drive as the country had moved from its former 34 million metric tons of cargo to 86 million metric tons of cargo. According to him, the government would embark on the dredging of the Warri Port as part of efforts aimed at reducing the congestion at Lagos Port. In addition, he disclosed that the Lagos government was also on a private-led port called Lekki Port that had generated significant attention and interest, adding that after almost 15 years, the government had completed and commissioned the Abuja light rail project and others across the country. “In the South West, work is ongoing on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, the Lagos-Sango-Abeokuta Expressway, the Ikorodu-Sagamu, and the Ogbomosho Ilorin road. “The contract for the Lagos-Badagry Expressway was awarded about two months ago and work should begin soon,” he said. Speaking further, the VP said since industrial infrastructure remained a major component of the country’s economic transformation plan, project-nine, a made in Nigeria export promotion drive also formed part of the reform agenda of the government. According to him, the idea was to build special economic zones across the country which would accommodate industries for local manufacture of goods for which Nigeria had a comparative advantage like cotton, diamond, leather works, among others. “Nigeria EZ Development Company, that is Nigeria Economic Zone Investment Company, a public-private partnership would serve as the delivery vehicle for the project.” “The objective is to push manufacturing share of GDP to 20% and make Nigeria a leading regional manufacturing hub for the entire Africa and create about 1.5 million new jobs in manufacturing and to generate about $30 billion in non-export earnings,” he added. In the agriculture sector, he said this had become a major success story, adding that government would digitalise the anchor borrowers’ project by capturing the biometrics of farmers as the country was gradually achieving self-sufficiency in rice production. He listed construction of more dams before 2020, facilitation of agric loans to farmers in the South West in aid of farmland clearing, the green imperative project to move farming from basic to mechanised, and construction of assembly plant for industrial machines for farming in the six geopolitical zones of the country, with 780 service centres across the country to attend to the needs of farmers. Prof. Osinbajo explained that the ‘Next Level’ mantra of the Federal Government would promote and prosecute reforms in the economy that would lead to a new lease of life for the country. Osinbajo said the productive economy had become imperative for the country and the guiding principle as the country continued in her endeavours to divert the economy from the rent-seeking business that had characterised the oil and gas sector over the years at the detriment of the growth of the country. He identified corruption in high and low places as the major challenge that had denied and robbed an average Nigerian the provision of the least amenities that could make life meaningful for the citizens. He said: “Our major challenge had been the grand stealing of public resources and we must not allow that to happen again. People must understand how bad it is for somebody to sign a cheque and take any amount of money from the treasury, and that will affect the country’s capacity to provide the most basic infrastructure. “The kind of high-level corruption that diminishes the public revenue so substantially that the government is almost unable to do anything is what we have experienced in our country and must never happen again.” Earlier, Osinbajo commissioned various projects at the university that included the new ultra-modern engineering lecture theatre, an extension of the University Medical Centre, academic publishing centre, an Olympic size swimming pool, mascot, and an electronic scoreboard at the sports centre. The vice president was accompanied by the institution’s governing board chairman, Dr. Wale Babalakin; the vice-chancellor, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, and Dr. John Momoh, Chief Executive Officer of Channels Television and National President of UNILAG alumni, among others. Prof. Osinbajo also inspected a refurbished terrace in honour of the 10th VC, the late Professor Adetokunbo Sofoluwe.