LAGOS – It was a hot Tuesday afternoon. The venue was the Dr. Bekolari Ransome-Kuti Garden, Anthony Village, Lagos. The event was a colloquium themed ‘Evolving A Grassroots Approach Towards Democratic Struggles In Nigeria’. The occasion was organised by the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) to mark the first anniversary of the death of its late Olawale Salami, its Director of Research, Programmes and Documentation, who died last year, after a brief illness. The late Salami, popularly referred to as the ‘Don of Popular Struggles’ in the activists community, died on April 9, 2018 few days after celebrating his 50th birthday. Comrade Debo Adeniran, CACOL’s Executive Chairman, Debo Adeniran, who spoke at the occasion, maintained that the late Salami was the best the group ever had, saying that he was diligent, obedient, creative, versatile, committed with unparalled passion for the development of humanity. He maintained that if the present crop of leaders could be so committed in their duties of providing governance at the grassroots, the masses of the country would have cause to smile, as the society would be better. The CACOL boss called for an egalitarian society where the rights of the citizens would be respected and their needs provided by their leaders. According to him, “Just as Salami would have wished, there is the need to deepen the understanding of the masses on the appropriateness of participatory democracy, especially where the grassroots people are to be clearly educated and informed on their rights and expected privileges from the government. “The masses need to be better educated on how to assert those rights and demand for what they deserve under any government. “Today’s event is being organised to bring to the fore the lost opportunities, which can be re-enacted by those of us who are still living, to ensure that the masses do not suffer in ignorance.” Adeniran stressed that though Nigeria is currently enjoying almost 20 years of uninterrupted civil rule with a neo-liberal pseudo capitalist economy that barely allows majority of the people to eke out a living, while more than over 75 percent of her universities, polytechnics’ graduates are without jobs and not much prospects of any, the last elections held in the country have attracted more than 5,000 litigations, signaling one of the most contentious elections ever held in the country, whereas China, with a mixture of its communist and neo-liberal economic system, has taken majority of its citizens out of poverty and poised for its people in the future. This, he said could be made possible in Nigeria with the right crop of people-oriented leadership, which would have the masses in mind in its programmes and projects. Comrade Adegboyega Atenuga, CACOL’s Director of Media and Publications and former Assistant Secretary of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), in his remark, described the late Salami as a committed activist, a cadet of the socialist movement who was always determined to be involved in every crisis that cropped up in his days. He said , like Salami, Nigerians should always be interested and be involved in issues of national concern, stressing that he was simple in his ways and always explained the relationship between the haves and have-nots, the ruling class and the masses. He maintained that the activist community would miss Salami, who he maintained were deeply involved in the struggle for free and democratic society with the likes of the late Dr. Bekolori Ransome-Kuti and others, adding, “We must rekindle the fire of ensuring that Nigeria becomes the country that we want.” Apart from the colloquium, CACOL led hundreds of activists , friends and family of the late Salami to pay their respect at his tomb at Atan Cemetery, Yaba, Lagos as well as a Reggae and Afrobeat musical concert at his residence in Sango, Ogun State.