ABEOKUTA – The Ogun State Election Petition Tribulation sitting in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, has warned parties in the ongoing cases before it never to entertain the idea of intimidating or cowing it, saying its assignment will be discharged judiciously and fairly. Justice Chinwe Onyeabor, chairman of the three-man panel, said this on Wednesday during the sitting of the tribunal at High Court VIII, Isabo, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The judge got feasibly infuriated when a counsel to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Ogun State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Opeyemi Adeyemi, told the court that he was not sure whether his clients were served with the processes of the tribunal before its order of Monday. The tribunal had ordered for an abridge of time till Wednesday for parties in a motion on notice filled in the case number EPT/OG/GOV/02/2019 be served before the motion can be moved. When the case came up on Wednesday, Adeyemi told the tribunal that he got information about the motion on Tuesday and would apply for a shortest adjournment for him to be familiar with the motion. He said: “We were informed yesterday and we are in the process of filling out processes, I don’t even know if we have been served with the instance motion, I have not seen it.” Counsel to Labour Party (LP), Monday Mawah, while opposing the application, said INEC should not be allowed to constitute delay in the case, saying the electoral body’s target was to waste time. In his response, Adeyemi queried the last ruling of the court, saying he wasn’t even aware if his clients had been properly served before the tribunal ruled on application to abridge time in the motion. The chairman reminded the counsel that another lawyer, Chioma Nwokoacha, represented both INEC and REC at the last adjourned date and confirmed service to the tribunal, saying whatever was the infraction was an internal problem of the electoral body. She said: “Let nobody entertain the idea of intimidating or cowing us. We can’t be intimidated. We can’t be cowed. It cannot happen. Our record shows that INEC was served on time and INEC announced appearance and confirmed service at the last adjourned date, and you time has started running since the day service was effected. “We are on a national assignment and we are going to discharge the assignment in record time without fear or favour.” Attempt by the counsel to appeal to the tribunal that his intention was not to intimidate the court, the judge cut in quickly saying, “it cannot even happen, it can never happen.” The tribunal adjourned the case till May 8 for the motion on notice to be heard on the request of the Counsel to the All Progressives Congress (APC), Deji Enisenyin, who protested that the law permits his client seven days to respond to the motion. Enisenyin was appearing in court for the first time since the beginning of the sitting saying that he was appearing in protest. With the decision, the tribunal overruled itself on the order made on Monday.