Lagos – The draw for the 32nd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations held in Cairo, Egypt on Friday with Nigeria Super Eagles what could be described on paper as a soft or a favourable draw in their 18th appearance at the tournament they’ve won thrice in 1980, 1994 and 2013. But football is no mathematics and no team are a ‘push-over’ since in football match ‘it is not over until it is over’. And so at a colourful ceremony held at the Giza Pyramids at the outskirt of Cairo, the Super Eagles are drawn in Group B alongside Syli Nationale of Guinea, alongside debutants Madagascar and the Intamba Mu Rugamba of Burundi as opponents. Nigeria may have been handed a comparatively easy group, although their last 16 match could potentially be against a side from Group D. The Super Eagles are unbeaten since the 2018 World Cup and have strength in all positions, especially in midfield where they can call on Arsenal’s Alex Iwobi and Leicester City’s Wilfred Ndidi. This year’s AFCON will be the first to be staged in Europe’s summer and will hold from June 21 to July 19 and it is also the first time that it will go on a 24-team format. In Group A are hosts the Pharaohs of Egypt, with the most wins (7), two –time winners DR Congo, Uganda and Zimbabwe, while the Teranga Lions of Senegal head Group C that also has 1990 champions The Desert Warriors of Algeria, the Leopards of Kenya and Tanzania. Group D appears the toughest with the Atlas Lions of Morocco, the Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire, Bafana Bafana of South Africa and Namibia. 2004 champions Carthrage Eagles of Tunisia tackle Eagles of Mali, Mauritania and the Angola in Group E, while Cup holders Cameroon (five-time winners) are up against four –time champions the Black Stars of Ghana, the Squirrels of Benin Republic and Guinea-Bissau in Group F. The two top –placed teams in each group, as well as the best four third –placed teams, will qualify for the knock-out rounds. Matches of the 32nd AFCON finals, set for June 21 to July 19, will take place at the Cairo International Stadium, Al Salam Stadium in Cairo, Borg El-Arab Stadium in Alexandria, Suez Stadium, Ismailia Stadium and the Air Defence Stadium in Cairo. Of the Super Eagles’ three opponents in the group stage, Madagascar and Burundi are debutants, thus making their first ever appearance at the competition, while Guinea, who picked silver ahead of Nigeria at the league-format 1976 AFCON in Ethiopia, are making their 12th appearance and  Nigeria going for their 18th appearance. However, there are some factors that may make or break the chances of the Super Eagles from qualifying from the group stage to the second round if sentiments are to be attached to the group’s matches. The first factor is that Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr’s wife is from Madagascar and that means that when Nigeria takes on Madagascar on June 30 at the Alexandria Stadium, Rohr and his wife will be apart. Although, by marriage, Rohr’s Madagascan wife should give allegiance to his husband and support him in the discharge of his duties but on the other hand and if the ‘power of love’ is anything to go by, Rohr’s mind will be with his wife when the match comes up. Before now, the leadership of the NFF has granted Rohr permission to allow him visit his wife in Madagascar and also spend time with her and the family. Last year, he (Rohr) was allowed to spend Christmas with his Madagascan wife and spend the whole yuletide season in Madagascar before he rejoined the team in January. The second factor and perhaps, the most significant one is involving Ahmad Ahmad, President of the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) and Amaju Pinnick, President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), who is also CAF first Vice President. While Ahmed is from Madagascar and will want his country to progress beyond the group stage, the June 30 last group match against Nigeria could see him at cross road with Pinnick, who is apart from being the first Vice President of CAF, is also the Chairman of the Organising Committee for the 2019 AFCON. It is no longer the roles played by Pinnick and Nigeria as a whole in the emergence of Ahmad as the President of CAF and the cordial relationship between the two football pundits. We gathered that since Madagascar qualified for their first ever AFCON competition when Ahmed is the CAF President, the country will want to make an impact at the competition by qualifying from the group’s stage to the second round. On the other hand, Pinnick as chairman of the Organising Committee for the competition, will also want to make his influence felt during the competition and when ‘politics’ come to play in the competition, he (Pinnick) will not want Nigeria to be push aside. These two factors could play a role in the Group B matches of the competition unless the Super Eagles players are at the top of their games, determined, focused and with the zeal to excel by making names for themselves and for the country. But apart from the two factors, is the group really an easy one for the Super Eagles? Can Nigeria navigate its way out of the group irrespective of the teams and go beyond the second round if not winning the trophy? Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser, Rohr, who saw the draw live behind the Giza Pyramids just as the other 23 lead coaches commented on the draw. “It is a tough group and we have to be at our very best and our fittest. Guinea has a young, tough team and we will have to be at our best against them. Burundi eliminated Gabon even with their Pierre Aubameyang. “Madagascar was the first team to qualify. It would be a great showpiece of football but it is important for our players to avoid injuries as the season heads towards the end,” he said. On his part, Super Eagles’ captain Ahmed Musa said: “I think it is a tough group for the Super Eagles. It is important for us to stay fit and avoid injuries so that everyone would be in great shape in Egypt. “We have a young team who have played at the World Cup but have not played at the AFCON. For me, we are ready for any country in Egypt. It would be an interesting experience.” Former Nigeria international and winner of the AFCON title in 1994, Victor Ikpeba, is optimistic of Nigeria’s progression from the group. He, however, warned that the Super Eagles cannot afford to be complacent as some of these smaller nations could be very tricky. He, therefore, warned that the players should take every game with all seriousness. Super Eagles defender, Leon Balogun said: “Group B it is – love the sound of that letter. Looking forward to get started at AFCON 2019. We are battle ready for the oppositions,” he said. Reviewing the whole groups as it affects other teams in the competition, one could say that Group A is the toughest based on FIFA rankings. The hosts Egypt will face the Democratic Republic of Congo, Uganda and Zimbabwe in the group stage, and even if they win their group, they could end up with a tricky match against South Africa in the last 16. As the hosts of the tournament, and the finalists of the 2017 AFCON, Egypt are probably the favorites. They’ve been champions of Africa more times than any other nation, have lost only twice in their last 25 home games against African opponents, and of course, they have Mohamed Salah. Group A might be the toughest according to FIFA rankings, but Group D is being called the ‘group of death’. The group, containing Morocco, Cote d’Ivoire, South Africa and Namibia, is the toughest according to pundits’ rankings, which are often considered more accurate than FIFA’s system. Morocco last won the AFCON back in 1976, but Coach Herve Renard has got them looking very impressive. Renard is the only coach to win AFCON with two different countries: Zambia in 2012 and Cote d’Ivoire in 2015. His Morocco side haven’t lost to African opposition since June 2017 and put on some strong performances at the 2018 World Cup, where they were also in the so-called ‘group of death’. However, Egypt’s hot summer weather could hurt Morocco’s chances though. The 2019 AFCON has been switched to the summer, kicking off on June 21, and the heat in Egypt at that time of year goes beyond uncomfortable. Morocco play a high-intensity game, covering more distance at speeds of over 20 and 25 kilometers per hour than anyone else in the 2018 World Cup group stages, but the Egyptian heat could have an effect on their style of play. Their Group D opponents Cote d’Ivoire are full of English Premier League (EPL) stars like Manchester United’s Eric Bailly, Tottenham Hotspur’s Serge Aurier and Crystal Palace main man Wilfried Zaha. Just getting out of Group D alive might not be enough. Finishing second in Group D could lead to a last 16 match-up against Tunisia, Africa’s second best-ranked side. Finishing as one of the best third-placed teams could lead to a last-16 match against Nigeria or Egypt. Holders Cameroon were originally supposed to host this tournament, but were stripped of hosting rights. Head coach Clarence Seedorf has had a tough start to his spell in charge, only winning two of his six games so far. Cameroon’s toughest opponents in Group F are Ghana, but even if they finish second in the group, they should avoid the bigger teams in the round of 16. Liverpool’s Sadio Mane and Manchester City’s Riyad Mahrez are locked in an EPL title race at the moment but could also face each other in Group C where Senegal and Algeria are the favorites to progress. Senegal missed out on the World Cup knockout stages by the slimmest of margins, but has never won the AFCON title. In Group E, Tunisia have been handed a kind draw. But if they top their group containing Mali, Mauritania and Angola, they will face the runners up of Group D in the round of 16.