Comrade Ini Ememobong is the Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State. In this interview with IdongEsIt AshAmErI he speaks on how the PDP was able to secure victory in the just concluded elections in the state, steps being taken by the party to consolidate power and how the party intends to respond to litigation at the election petition tribunal. Excerpts: The opposition party is heading to the tribunal to challenge the result of the elections, how prepared is the PDP for the fireworks at the tribunal? The tribunal is meant for those who do not feel okay with the result. It is their con- stitutional right to do so. Evi- dence cannot be evidence until admitted by court. It must be admitted and marked by the court of competent jurisdic- tion. Let them gather the ev- idence, we will meet them at the tribunal and we are also prepared, whatever they call evidence, we are there. The evidence they claim they have will pass through the funnel of evidence as currently enforce- able in the country. As a party, ours is to say thank you to a lot of people who were part of the processes. How was the PDP able to win so massively in the just concluded elections? The Peoples Democratic Par- ty won massively because they put their hope and trust in God and not man. Having put their hope and trust in God, they also used Biblical principles which say that faith without work is dead. So they went to work. PDP was working in the units, working door-to-door , working in wards, working in chapters , was doing massive campaigns and talking to the people in all the things they wanted to do, answering ques- tions, touching hearts and re- ceiving hugs. Keeping God in front and keeping hard work behind created a complete cart. God pulled the cart and grant- ed success. Did the party anticipate it was going to win with such a wide margin? Yes, we believed that the par- ty was going to win because the indices were there. Imme- diately the opposition hinged all their strategies on men, I knew that the elections were won. Immediately they pro- moted people beyond human capacity and began to deify them, I knew clearly that it was a struggle between humanity and God and therefore when divinity confronts humanity, humanity will be consumed by divinity. So I knew that the PDP was going to win because of the level of work, we did the comparative analysis based on the level of work my party was doing side by side with what other parties were doing and we saw that we were miles ahead and there were clear cut indications. The people who manned units, majority of the people were with us. We con- tinued to give the assurances that all will be well. After the elections, much is ex- pected from the PDP led govern- ment. What role will the party play in ensuring that the expectations of the people are met? We know that the Governor will do everything humanly possible to fulfill his campaign promises. We saw him doing that in his first term even in the midst of the recession. We are trusting God that he will met his obligations. The governor is also a person who thinks out of the box to find alternative resources. That is why you can find out that we are using al- ternative funding to construct roads in the state. If we were depending only on federal allo- cations, it would not have been possible to construct even one kilometre of road in the state. I am sure that the governor will find alternative means to meet his campaign promises. People have already started agitation about which federal constituency in Akwa Ibom North East senatorial district will take a shot at the governorship in 2023, is it not too early? My party has issued a state- ment on this issue. It is too ear- ly to talk about 2023. We have not even finished 2019. The governor has not even entered 2019 politically. This discus-sion on 2023 is diversionary. It is divisive. Those are tactics by people who ply their trade in supporting people. And this has become an occupation for them. They think that if the system runs without actively supporting a particular candi- date or aspirant, they cannot make money out of it. There- fore, you begin to say “I stand with this,” you have discrimi- nated against the other people. People have just received man- date for 2019 to 2023 and are yet to be sworn -in, why would you not allow people to get the benefit of the present man- date rather than talking about 2023. It is terrible and divisive. It is also an indication of lack of work and lack of political awareness. It is an indication of a dubious mindset of the proponents. The year 2023 is too far to be a distraction. Does this not show lack of cohe- sion within your party? Noitisnot.Itisnotthepar- ty’s position. People are trying to push the idea. It is not the party that is asking people to start the discussion on 2023. It is from people who feel they will benefit from the position of supporting the aspiration of a particular person. The people think that if they can- not stand on someone, they cannot stand on their own, so they must permanently look for someone to stand with. Now that your party has won, is it thinking of taking another look at the political configuration in terms of where the key elected officers are drawn from? Your register in journalism is not the same in the aviation sector. For example, the same type of thing that you call road, in the airport is called taxi way orrunway.Thereforeyoucan- not be using airport register for land transportation. You cannot be using cultural tribe register to discuss politics. Politics knows wards, it knows units, it knows local govern- ment, it knows state constitu- ency,federalconstituency,sen- atorial districts , states and the nation. So you cannot be telling me tribe in politics. It does not make sense. The governor is from Akwa Ibom South sen- atorial district. The deputy is from Akwa Ibom North West senatorial district, the speak- er is from Akwa Ibom North East. The constitution frowns against the discrimination of people on the basis of where they come from. That is why zoning is not based on ethnic consideration but on political units. You cannot use tribe to check delineation. If you go there, you will be talking about the many tribes in Akwa Ibom and how governorship should rotate among those many tribes. So what is the party is going to do to assuage the feelings of some people in Akwa Ibom South sena- torial district? In Akwa Ibom South sena- torial district, the governor is from there, the senator is from there, newly elected, Akong Eyakenyi. In Akwa Ibom South, the South South publicity secretary of the par- ty is from there. When the Ni- ger Delta Development Com- mission (NDDC) was under the PDP, the commissioner of the NDDC was from there. We have tried our best. When last was an Oron person, secretary to the state government? We run a party as an all inclusive movement. Every local gov- ernment has a state officer. When we meet, we meet as state officers of the party. My one vote as the publicity of the party is the same vote as that of ex-officio officer.