LAGOS – There are indications that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) may accede to the preparation plans of the Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, for the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). DAILY INDEPENDENT learnt that the decision of the NFF may not unconnected with the promise to give the coach a free hand in the discharge of his duties as the Super Eagles handler. In a Sports Radio programme monitored in Lagos on Tuesday, Rohr hinted that the team would camp in Asaba, Delta State and Ismailia, Egypt in preparation for this year’s AFCON. Although he admitted that details of the build-up programme were yet to be finalised by NFF, Rohr said that the Super Eagles would likely play the Black Stars of Ghana in Asaba in a friendly match before heading out to Egypt. There will also be a similar game against the Teranga Lions of Senegal in Ismaili as the coach wants to hit the ground running with adequate plans for the AFCON. “We were in Asaba for our last two matches, and we are looking at Asaba to camp again, and play against Ghana before going to Egypt. “In Egypt, we will go to Ismaili. We want to play a match in Ismaili before the AFCON, probably against Senegal. “We train in Ismaili, and then we play the competition. We are hopeful, and we are ready to play. “We have young players who want to do well and win the Cup. They will use Egypt to build their careers; but we must prepare well,” Rohr said, who also hinted that the Super Eagles would land in Cairo on June 9. Meanwhile, we learnt that the NFF would do whatever will make the team achieve success in Egypt. “He (Rohr) has been asked to submit his plans for preparations for the AFCON and if those are his plans for a successful outing for the team, the NFF will have no choice than to approve his plans because we don’t want anything that will affect the chances of the team going far or winning this year’s AFCON title. “In another development, the NFF has promised to give him (Rohr) free hand in the discharge of his duties and that the body will want to keep to,” said our source at the Glass House in Abuja. Nigeria are in Group B alongside Guinea, Madagascar and Burundi with the first match against Burundi on June 22 before taking on Guinea on June 26 and Madagascar on June 30.