 Victoria Ojugbana Lagos – In order to boost the girl-child’s confidence while she observes her menstrual cycle, Rotary Club of Lagos Island (RCLI) District 9110 has given out free sanitary napkins to female students of Victoria Island Senior Secondary School and Kuramo Senior Secondary School, Victoria Island, Lagos. President, RCLI, Kumar Gulati, speaking at the distribution of the items to the students in Lagos on Wednesday, said the club initiated the “SAKHI” project, a pioneer social awareness programme aimed at educating school girls on the importance of education and personal sanitary hygiene. He stated that the distribution will be done on monthly basis. While noting that the RCLI has been involved in many other social service projects on health and sanitation, blood donation, tree planting, education, among others, Gulati said that a recent survey conducted in Nigeria revealed that lack of proper and adequate menstrual hygiene management system, a bye-product of inadequate water and sanitation facility, has an adverse effect on the health and education of adolescent girls. He noted that equally important to the club is the cost of each pad when poor families cannot afford it, adding that the situation is even worse in the male-dominated family where girls are barred from using necessary products and are instead, forced to use unhygienic products like old rags, magazines, leaves and even feathers, which ultimately lead to infection and infertility in future. Gulati stated that the United Nations Children’s Education Fund (UNICEF) estimates that one in 10 young girls in Africa miss school during their menstrual period and eventually drops out due to social compulsion, adding that through SAKHI, RCLI aims to create awareness among the school girls and under-privileged girls will be given free sanitary products, as well will be encouraged to use it. The RCLI president said that “Under SAKHI, the RCLI has adopted two schools in Victoria Island including Kuramo College and Victoria Island Secondary Schools, where about 400 girl-students will benefit from the project for their requirement of sanitary napkins,” adding that “every month, RCLI members will visit and distribute the sanitary products to the students and today, is the second day of such event.” During the first launch, several members of RCLI including Gulati, Ashwini Nagarkar, Mousumi Bhayan, Anu Garg, Mousumi Sahoo, Shweta Srivastava, were present and the girls expressed gratitude for the gesture. He said the programme it is to enable young girls go to school during their periods, give them the confidence that they can do and achieve whatever they want during her menstrual period, adding that it is to nurture them to become who they ought to be. Gulati noted that the project is to improve girl-child education and menstrual hygiene through provision of sanitary packs to the school girls to avoid absenteeism during their monthly period.  RCLI is determined to spread its wings to more number of schools in future and cover as many girls as possible so as to encourage them to continue their endeavor to have universal education, as well as prevent school drop-outs from the Nigerian society. Principal, Kuramo Senior College, Omolade Aiyeyemi, who on behalf of the students appreciated the RCLI for the kind gesture, urged the RCLI to extend same to other schools in the state. 