LAGOS – Kingsley Fanwo, Director- General of Media and Publicity to Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state has described his principal as the ambassador of Nigerian youths in governance, saying youths in Kogi and Nigeria are proud of him and will want him to continue in office for another term. Describing Bello as a courageous and hardworking leader, he said the governor has devoted all his time and energy into delivering the dividends of democracy to the people of the state since he was sworn-in over three years ago. Speaking in an interview with Daily Independent in Lagos, Fanwo said contrary to claims by the opposition that the governor is an example of failure of youths in governance, Governor Bello has demonstrated sound leadership in the way he has managed the affairs of the state which in turn, has won him several awards both locally and internationally. He said the manner the governor quickly addressed the challenges of insecurity in the state and provisions of jobs to many unemployed youths through various agricultural programmes are clear testimonies to the fact that he is an ambassador of youths in governance today. He said “ Governor Yahaya Bello is a big role model to Nigerian youths today. He is a reference point in governance. I will cite the example of his approach to the issue of security in Kogi state. The energy he invested in fighting security in Kogi state would have been very difficult for a 70 year-old person to do”. “The way he moved around and the way he was able to put in place Operation Total Freedom is highly commendable and a lot of people in Kogi can testify to the fact that he is devoting his youthful zest and energy into ensuring that the people of Kogi get the best in terms of democracy dividends” . “ He is a big role model and I am always proud whenever I am opportune to represent him picking up awards both in Nigeria and abroad from organisations and agencies that are very happy with what he is doing in the state, especially for the youths. When you look at youth empowerment in the state, it has never been this good”. “We have been able to encourage hundreds of youths to invest their energy in various agricultural programmes in collaboration with the Federal Government like the Anchors Borrowers Programme. A lot of them also benefited from the land’s we cleared. We prepared lands across the 21 local government areas and encourage youths, we facilitated loans for them, gave them agricultural machineries and today, they are millionaires because they could practice agriculture”. “ It’s not enough to tell these youths not to go into crimes. If they don’t go into crimes, what alternatives are you offering? That is exactly what governor Yahaya Bello has been able to do”. “ He is able to do most of these things because he is a youthful governor and because he is youthful and useful. That is why I have the confidence that Nigerian youths are proud of him and are solidly behind him as the ambassador of youths in governance today”. Fanwo also said the governor has received several congratulatory messages from residents of the state since he signified his intention to seek reelection in office. This according to him was because he has justified the mandate given to him by the people since he came to office three years ago. “The flow of congratulatory messages since he declared his intention to seek reelection has clearly shown that the people of Kogi state were very ready for that declaration on Wednesday. They were anxious for him to come out and declare his intention to seek second term in office”. “This is a testimony to what he has done in the last three years in the state. He has been there for 39 months now and he has really justified his mandate. He has delivered on his key promises to the people of the state and that is why they have pressurising him for almost six months now too come out clearly and declare his intention” he said.