ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday, lamented the damages caused by terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda, ISIS and Boko Haram, saying it will take several decades to repair. Buhari who spoke at the world economic forum taking place in Jordan, linked part of the conflict to lack of social and economic inclusion. The forum which has as its theme: “Building New Platforms of Cooperation” also provided the Nigerian President an opportunity to proffer some solutions to the global challenge of insecurity. According to the President, conflicts ravaging the world can be put under checks through cooperation. He added that there had been significant shifts on many fronts, including technology; population and migration; trade and geopolitics; climate change; and many more. “We have also been hosts to some of the deadliest conflicts in recent history. The deaths, damage and destruction caused by terrorist groups. “Permit me to start by thanking His Majesty, King Abdallah Bin Hussein of Jordan, for the special invitation to speak to you briefly at this event. “In this digital age where physical borders no longer exist to protect even the most secured nations, the only way to overcome predatory and divisionary forces is for all well-meaning nations to work together for the greater good of mankind,” he said. The President added, “Simply put, cooperation amongst sovereign nations is no longer a choice. It is an absolute necessity. In the last ten years, the world as we knew it has completely changed.” Speaking further, he said while some nations have had positive impacts on account of these trends, other countries in Africa have seen the negative and destructive outcomes of these trends. He said, “It is my view, that no region of the world has felt the full impact of these dramatic shifts and shocks like the Middle East and Africa – North and Sub-Sahara. “On one hand, our region is blessed with a very young, vibrant, enterprising and dynamic population. We also have valuable natural resources that are the envy of many nations. “These assets and endowments contributed to our region experiencing some of the highest economic growth rates in the world.” “By the special grace of God, today, most of these terrorist organisations have been significantly degraded. The world came together to achieve this. Now, we are faced with the task of rebuilding. “It is at this point that we must ask ourselves how we, as a region, got to this point. The answer, at least in the case of Nigeria, is the lack of social and economic inclusion. “As Nigeria celebrated being the largest economy in Africa and one of the fastest growing economies in the world, Nigerians were migrating in droves through harsh desert conditions and across treacherous seas to seek what they believe would be a better life in Europe,” he added. He also stated, “I strongly believe that the lack of social and economic inclusion was the root cause of many challenges we are experiencing. Today, our population is one hundred and ninety million people. By 2050, it is estimated that we hit three hundred and ninety million making us the third most populous country in the world. “This means we must start working now to ensure this population is productively engaged. In this new world without borders, my personal view is stability and sustainability can only be achieved through inclusive economic growth, and enhanced cooperation amongst nations.”