ABUJA – Pernille Ironside, the deputy country representative of UNICEF in Nigeria, has said the births of nearly 230 million children under the age of five worldwide have never been officially recorded in spite of the importance of ensuring the registration of every child’s birth. Acceding to her, in Nigeria only 30 percent of children under the age of five have had their births registered. She made stated this in her goodwill message on the Dissemination Event on the Impact Evaluation Report of Birth Registration to evaluate the impact of work to increase birth registration in Nigeria yesterday in Abuja. According to her, “What we found was that Nigeria’s rapid population growth requires stronger efforts to ensure that birth registration can keep pace with that growth especially in the under-five population. “Birth registration – the official recording of a child’s birth by the government – establishes the existence of a child under law and provides the foundation for safeguarding many of a child’s civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child specifies that every child has the right to be registered at birth, without any discrimination. “This finding points us in the right direction for our future work on this important issue and our work to deliver results for children and change children’s lives for the better. “In this year, the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which calls for every child to have their birth legally registered, UNICEF firmly pledges its continued commitment to support inter-agency collaboration to achieve accelerated birth registration, so that no child is left behind”, she stressed. The deputy country representative said recording of births – and deaths  – was essential for a modern administrative system. “It helps to create an inclusive society, protecting human rights, ensuring proper delivery of public services and tackling inequalities,” she added. Her words: “A reliable and well-functioning civil registration system is also crucial for monitoring our progress towards achieving the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “And the vital statistics that we gain from a civil registration system provides critical, up-to-date and accurate population-based data that is disaggregated by sex, age and geographic location. This is essential for identifying all groups in need and where we need to put our efforts and resources, to make sure no one is left behind. “It does this by helping us to monitor other targets of the SDGs that are related to health, food security, clean water, education, migration and gender”, she further stated.