BENIN – A 12-year-old victim of defilement (name withheld), has told an Evbouriaria Magistrate Court, in Benin, Edo State, how a community leader, Goddey Jatto, forced his penis into her. The 34-year-old suspect, Goddey Jatto, is the community head (Odionwere) of Jato Street, Oregbeni Quarters, Benin City. Narrating her ordeal in the court, the victim told the court that she was accosted, taken to the bush behind a fish-pond in the area and defiled by Jatto on January 22, 2019. She said, “While I was waiting for my mother at the shop, I decided to go to a neighbour to help me call my mother on phone. “Before I could get to the neighbour’s house, I changed my mind and turned back because I did not want to upset my mother. “As I was returning to the shop, Jatto called me to help him take a book to his wife and I refused because I do not want my mother to get to the shop and not meet me there. “He insisted and as I walked close to him, he held my hand, closed my mouth with his other hand and dragged me to the back of his house by the fish-pond. “He removed my pant, brought out his baby (penis) and forced it inside my baby (virginal). It was so painful and when he finished, he gave me N200 and turned my back, trying to do the same thing again. I bend-down, picked my pant from the floor and ran.” The victim further told the court that immediately she ran back to the shop, she met her mother and narrated her ordeal. “My mother cried, fell and couldn’t move. She informed the Police; they took us to the police station the next day,” she added. In her testimony, mother of the victim (name also withheld) said the defendant was initially released at Oregbeni Police Station and that the IPO pressurised her to settle but she refused. Application for bail for the suspect moved by the defence counsel was vehemently opposed by the prosecution to avoid potential distraction that could scuttle the case. The case was adjourned to May 2, 2019, for accelerated hearing. Meanwhile, Edo State Government has assured justice would be done for a 12-year-old victim. The government gave the assurance in a statement by the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development. It reaffirmed the state government’s commitment to protecting vulnerable children. “Justice will prevail on the matter, as government was keen on protecting children,” the statement said.