ABUJA – Third Republic Senate President, Sen. Ameh Ebute, has cautioned the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to leave politics for politicians in the country. Ebute gave the charge at the opening forum of a two-day international conference on politics, religion and ethnicity in Nigeria organised by the National Inter-Faith and Religious Organisations for Peace (NIFROP), held on Wednesday. Senator Ebute was also very critical of Chairman of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) Prof. Ango Abdullahi, urging him to desist from reducing Nigeria or the geographical North to an ethnic or religious fiefdom. “Why do we draw the swords against ourselves for political, ethnic or religious reasons? “Where and when did we abandon our cherished traditional norms of hospitality and brotherhood? “Why the so much hate and animosities between brothers/sisters and among communities, over such molten factors, which ought to unite, rather than divide us?” he queried. “I regret to say, we have deviated so extraneously from the solid foundations our founding fathers and world-recognised nationalists laid for the future of this great nation, Nigeria. “These great Nigerians did great things for Nigeria. Nobody actually heard about their religion, ethnicity or region in the country to the level of interfering with the delicate cords, which bind Nigeria together as one strong and indivisible entity in the resoluteness of unity. “In post-independence Nigeria, the Zik of Africa as he was popularly called told us that ‘Each of our three regions is vastly different in many respects, but each has this in common. “Despite variety of languages and custom or difference in climate, all form part of one country which has existed as a political and social entity for fifty years. “That is why we believe that the political union of Nigeria is destined to be perpetual and indestructible.’ “We must also ponder on the wisdom of Sir Ahmadu Bello on unity and peace of Nigeria. He canvassed a proper understanding of ourselves for the unity of Nigeria in his reply to Zik of Africa thus; ‘… let us understand our differences. “I am a Muslim and a Northerner. You are a Christian, an Easterner. By understanding our differences, we can build unity in our country.’ Ebute stated.