Ughelli – A non-governmental organization, Centre for Peace and Environmental Justice (CEPEJ), has called on the director general of the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) to visit communities and creeks in the Niger Delta region affected by an oil spill to ascertain extent of damage. Comrade Sheriff Mulade, the national coordinator of CEPEJ, who made the call in Abuja, noted that oil spill related environmental damage need urgent attention and that NOSDRA should be aware of numerous oil spills in the region to enable it discharge the its statutory obligations to the people. “We see reasons to redirect the attention of NOSDRA to several explosions of oil and gas facilities, pipelines resulting to severe environmental ecological damage. There are numerous substandard oil and gas transportation facilities that are prone to leakage, spill and explosion. If NOSDRA makes it a priority to know the location of such facilities, they could give a better response operations which include detection, prevention and result oriented response,” he stated. The CEPEJ boss also drew the attention of NOSDRA to an incident in which 11 persons died in 2016 from a pipeline explosion at Agip’s oilfield in Southern Ijaw Local Government of Bayelsa State. He noted that it was necessary to call on NOSDRA to plan for a familiarisation visit to oil spill-affected sites, particularly in the creeks and interact with host communities across Niger Delta. Mulade called on NOSDRA to correctly evaluate the volume of crude and gas that has been discharged into the surrounding environment arising from various explosions, leakages, equipment failures and third party interference. “It is also important to inspect some pipelines that are due for remedial maintenance and proffer solution aimed at forestalling recurrence of preventable explosions and spills for the sake of the environment,” he said. He further added that CEPEJ was disposed and competently equipped to give the agency accurate knowledge of the Niger Delta creeks that were overrun with numerous forms of pipelines that could explode anytime and wreak havoc on the environment.