Ifeanyichukwu Nwannah Gusau, Samuel Ogidan Abuja – Gunmen on Monday killed 21 persons, injured three and destroyed ten 10 houses in Banono and Anguwan Aku villages in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The Kaduna State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo, gave the confirmation in a statement issued in Kaduna on Tuesday. Sabo said the said incident happened on April 8 about 0930hours. “We received a distress call that a group of armed men in large numbers on motor bikes entered Banono and Anguwan Aku both are remote neighbouring villages in Kufana district of Kajuru LGA. “The attackers started shooting sporadically, attacking the villagers and in the process shot and killed twenty one persons, injured three others and destroyed ten 10 houses. “The bandits also rustled about fifty 50 cows,” he said. Sabo disclosed that a combined teams of Police Mobile Force personnel, conventional police, army and the local vigilante were promptly mobilised to the area. He said they repelled the attack and evacuated both the dead and the injured to hospital. According to him, while efforts are on to apprehend the fleeing criminals, reinforcement of more police operatives have been drafted to the area for intensive combing and patrol with a view to forestall further breakdown of law and order/reprisal and arrest the perpetrators. Sabo said that the Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdurrahman, is saddened by this attack and has reiterated the command’s commitment to apprehend the culprits. “He sincerely condoled the affected families on the irreparable losses. “The command appeals to members of the public to continue to assist the police with useful information that could help in addressing these challenges and for the possible arrest of these criminals,” Sabo said. 3,526 Killed By Bandits, Many Rendered Homeless — Gov Yari Zamfara State government on Tuesday revealed that about 3,526 people had been killed since armed bandits began their persistent attacks on the state five years ago. This was disclosed by the state governor, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari, who spoke through the Secretary to the State Government, Professor Abdulahi Shinkafi, in Gusau during a town hall meeting attended by the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu. He said the terror attacks had been a thorn in the flesh of the people of the state, noting that all necessary measures had been applied but that the problems continued to the extent that the state had become a notable colony of armed banditry in the whole country. “Nearly 500 villages have also been devastated and 8,219 persons were injured, some are still in critical condition”, he said. The governor also said that over 13,000 hectares of farmlands were either destroyed or made useless as the farmers can no longer farm them. “The economy of the state has seriously suffered because thousands of shops were destroyed by the rampaging bandits who had displaced thousands of our people from their places of abode, many of whom cannot sleep with their two eyes closed because of fear,” he added. Yari said the government had written volumes of reports containing over 7,000 pages, giving details of the crises right from the beginning to the infiltration from Libya and Boko Haram. He disclosed that the government was aware of eight prominent bandits’ camps at different bush locations in the state, and urged that they should all be neutralised in order to decimate the criminals. The governor said that recent suspension of mining activities in the state by the Federal Government must “be followed by enforcement, because, it is one thing to ban, and another to enforce.” Local government chairmen at the meeting lamented that their local government areas are the worst hit by the gory incidents unleashed by the armed bandits. They noted that most of the people in the rural areas had lost interest in farming due to constant ravaging of the rural areas by the notorious armed bandits and kidnappers. It was revealed that between Monday night and the early hours of Tuesday, there was a serious attack in Gusau, the state capital, in which over fifteen persons were killed by bloody-thirsty elements operating in the state. However, most of the stakeholders submitted that there were security lapses in the process, saying that most of the armed bandits and kidnappers were not being prosecuted but were always set free because, as they heard, some people were behind them. He wondered how the insecurity situation would ever end in the state when the armed bandits and kidnappers had very strong support in the process. The IGP assured that he would mobilise all forces to ensure that the unholy activities came to an end. He said he was given the assignment to map out strategies that would end the dastardly acts in the state. According to the IGP, President Muhammadu Buhari was having serious psychological problems, tension, and trauma due to the insecurity situation in the entire North East. Meanwhile, Mansur Dan Ali, Minister of Defence, on Tuesday said fresh intelligence had exposed the complicity of some “highly-placed traditional rulers” in the ongoing killings across the northern parts of the country. Deadly attacks blamed on “bandits” have increased in North West states of Zamfara, Sokoto, and Katsina, with hundreds killed in recent months. In the North East, attacks by the insurgent group, Boko Haram, have continued, affecting mostly Borno, Yobe and Adamawa. Dan Ali in a statement said unnamed but high-profile traditional leaders had been identified as culpable in the violence, and vowed that they would not be spared. He said locals, especially in Sokoto, Katsina, Zamfara and other parts of the North ravaged by faceless gunmen, should “rise in unison to support all government’s efforts” aimed at addressing the crisis, especially because soldiers and other elements in the armed forces cannot combat it alone. “It is instructive to mention here that insurgency and terrorism are global phenomena that cannot be addressed through military actions only,” Dan Ali said. PDP Tasks Buhari On Rising Insecurity In The Country Similarly, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday asked President Muhammadu Buhari to quickly check the rising insecurity in the country. Lamenting the escalating insecurity, particularly the killings, kidnapping, banditry, and other criminal acts of terrorism in various parts of the country, especially in the Northern states, the PDP expressed concern over the failure of President Buhari’s administration to provide adequate security in the country despite the huge resources at its disposal. The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it was heavily grieved by the pain, anguish, and horror Nigerians had been subjected to in the hands of marauders. The PDP also asked the All Progressives Congress (APC) to give account of the whereabouts of the political mercenaries it allegedly imported into the country from neighbouring countries, particularly from Chad and Niger Republic, during the build-up to the 2019 general elections. “This demand is predicated on fears in the public space of the possible involvement of the imported political thugs who assisted the APC to unleash violence on Nigerians during the elections, in the heightened acts of banditry in our nation. “Nigerians could recall that the PDP had raised a red flag on the dangers of the heavy importation of unscreened aliens by the APC to involve in its presidential election campaign rallies. The PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians had expressed fears that such aliens could be used by unpatriotic elements to unbridle violent acts against Nigerians,” the party said. It lamented that the Federal Government had failed to exert enough commitment in protecting the lives of Nigerians and curbing the bloodletting and kidnapping of compatriots in Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Kogi, Kaduna, Taraba, Adamawa, Plateau, Bauchi, and other states. “We have been proved right that President Buhari and the APC do not believe in their campaign promises,” the PDP said. The party noted that by every indication, the President Buhari-led Federal Government has no solution to the security challenges facing the nation, which has festered under its “incompetent watch”.