Restructuring has become a major issue in Nigerian politics. Several geo-political zones, which see themselves as being marginalised and shortchanged in the sharing of the nation’s resources and political offices, have been clamouring for the restructuring of the federation. This, they believe, will make for fairness, justice and equity. The 2014 National Conference proclaimed by then President Goodluck Jonathan recommended that the nation be restructured, especially along the line of True Federalism and Resource Control. But, Jonathan could not see the recommendations through before the 2015 election, which he lost. Although the All Progressives Congress (APC) has restructuring in its 2015 elections manifesto, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has not seen reasons to implement the National Conference recommendations, moreso as the APC backed out of the proceedings. With restructuring becoming a major issue before the 2015 general elections, the APC at a time, set up the Nasir el-Rufai committee to advise it on the issue. But, the committee’s report, though favouring restructuring, has remained in the cooler. At the peak of the 2015 election campaigns, South South, South East, South West and Middle Belt were united in the call for restructuring, with some advocating a six or seven regional structure, while North West and North East seem not to have made up their mind on this issue. The call was given more impetus by former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, who presented restructuring as his major agenda, which he promised to pursue within the first six months if he emerged the nation’s president. But, Atiku lost the election to President Buhari. However, the matter is before the Presidential Elections Petitions Tribunal. Now that Buhari will spend another four years on the seat, depending on the outcome of the matters in the tribunal, Nigerians are wondering if this should be an opportunity for him to restructure the country. Buhari View On Restructuring Buhari has already given conditions to be fulfilled before his government can go into restructuring of the country. Buhari, who spoke during an interactive session with Nigerians when he visited France, maintained that there should be proper definition of what Nigerians want before the government can delve into restructuring the country. He also noted that many Nigerians who have been calling for restructuring have been doing so without defining what the restructuring should be. Buhari, who spoke during the interactive session with Nigerians living in France, was in the country for the Peace Forum attended by about 70 world leaders in Paris. The Nigerian community, made up of Nigerian Diaspora Organisation (NIDO), All Progressives Congress (APC) members in France, students and friends of Nigeria, had asked the President questions ranging from restructuring, security, anti-corruption, education and opportunity for Nigerians in diaspora to vote in 2019 general elections. The President responded: “There are too many people talking lazily about restructuring in Nigeria. Unfortunately, people are not asking them individually what they mean by restructuring. What form do they want restructuring to take? “Do they want us to have something like the three regions we used to have? And now we have 36 states and the FCT. What form do they want? They are just talking loosely about restructuring. Let them define it and then we see how we can peacefully do it in the interest of Nigerians. “They are just saying they want Nigeria restructured and they don’t have the clue of what the form the restructuring should be. So, anybody who talks to you about restructuring in Nigeria, ask him what he means and the form he wants it to take.” Babangida Tasks Buhari However, former Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida, is among former leaders who have set an agenda for Buhari’s second coming. He listed restructuring and power devolution, insecurity in the North East, the need to formulate economic policies that will stimulate and addressing youth unemployment as key priority areas. Babanginda, In a statement he personally signed, tasked Buhari on the urgency to confront insecurity of lives and property across the country, describing insecurity as the “most urgent problem” confronting the country. He said: “Now that the President has won his re-election bid, he should confront with renewed vigour the most urgent problem confronting Nigeria: Insecurity of lives and property. The Boko Haram insurgency remains a threat to many Nigerians, particularly in the North East sub region, while the twin evils of kidnapping and armed robbery/armed banditry remain a major national menace. The president must pay priority attention to these security issues. “The economy of the country must also occupy the president’s urgent attention. There is the need to be more creative in formulating policies that will improve the nation’s economy, create employment opportunities and give hope to our teaming youths. “The President may wish to heed to the yearnings of reasonable Nigerians for restructuring and seek all constitutional means to devolve some powers presently exercised by the Federal Government to the other tiers of government.” While congratulating Buhari for winning a second term of office in a keenly contested election, Babngida saluted the doggedness and gallantry of Atiku, noting that his support cut across ethnic, religious and regional lines. He urged Buhari to resist the temptation to see his challengers as enemies, but to view them as fellow citizens compatriots who held a different perspective from his on how best the country would move forward. “The newly elected president should heal the wounds of the heated campaign exchanges by embracing those who contested alongside with him. The President must resist the temptation to see them as enemies; not even opponents, but fellow compatriots who merely disagreed with him on how best to move our country forward,” he said, even as pleaded with Atiku to join hands with Buhari in “objective and constructive manner” to deepen democracy in the country, urging the PDP candidate to persuade his admirers and supporters to avoid bitterness and violence. El-Rufai’s View Nasir El-Rufai, the Kaduna State governor, on his own, called on the Nigerian government to grant autonomy of resources to states and local governments. El-Rufai made the call while speaking on theme, ‘Nigeria: Achieving National Unity Through Peaceful Restructuring’, at the birthday event of Bisi Akande, former governor of Osun State and APC chieftain. He said: “Many of the challenges that confront our country are best resolved at the sub-national level. How well our children are educated in the first nine years of schooling is down to the states and local governments.” El-Rufai explained that “Improving health outcomes for our people, easing and widening access to primary health care, providing routine immunisation to protect children against vaccine-preventable diseases, guaranteeing ante-natal care and safe delivery for pregnant women are all public services that are within the powers of states and local governments.” The governor said devolution of powers to local and state governments would enable states and local governments to be self-sufficient and sustaining, stressing, “The provision of extension services to farmers, construction of federal roads and aggregation centres for farm produce, are all state and local level functions, that the Federal Government can never do very well. Without any doubt, the Federal Government needs to devolve more powers to the states, and the states to the local governments.” El-Rufai maintained: “The total revenue allocation to all Local Governments from the Federation Account should, therefore, be determined and fixed, leaving it to the State House of Assembly to legislate on the vertical and horizontal sharing arrangement.” He used the occasion to support the establishment of state policing as part of the restructuring of the country’s system of government. He stressed: “As a state governor, I can testify that we simply do not have enough police officers in this country. That is why the military is involved in internal security operations in most of our states. During the most recent outbreak of the violent crisis in Kaduna, the determined efforts of civilian volunteers to secure their communities helped us considerably to stabilise and normalise the situation.” Buhari Should Embrace Restructuring Now – RPN Chieftain Chief Benaiah Nnakaku Ohajime, Chairman, Restoration Party of Nigeria (RPN), Obowo Council Area of Imo State, said: “Restructuring of this country is an issue which all lovers of peace, unity, equity and justice should embrace. It is a strategy by which we can remedy the deep seated ugly culture of robbing Peter to pay Paul and giving Caesar what belongs to him. “The South East and other aggrieved parts of the country have been consistent and vociferous in their demand for restructuring. If President Buhari is serious to convince them that they are still part and parcel of this geographical entity called Nigeria, he should make hay while the sun shines and place restructuring on his priority list in this his second term.” Ending Poverty Should Be Buhari’s Priority – NIP Stalwart Johnson Jaachimike Ubaruom, Chieftain, National Interest Party (NIP), Nwangele LGA of Imo State, opined: “Restructuring or no restructuring, what the man in the street wants is food, security and shelter. If the president can take care of the masses who are now living below the poverty line by giving them such things as free hospital services, education, access roads job, security, who will talk of restructuring again? To me, East or West, home is the best. Let the president do something to end poverty in the land and by that, he would have restructured the nation.” Restructuring Is Not In Buhari’s Manifesto – Medical Doctor Dr. Edmond Idada Amu, a Benin-based medical doctor, stated: “President Buhari made it explicit clear that he does not believe in the restructuring of the country and that those clamouring for restructuring are anti-unity and enemies of one united Nigeria. Are you going to force him to do what he did not tell Nigerians he will do if he wins the election? He won, no matter how he won the election. “Even in the South West where majority of the people were saying they will only vote for the candidate that is ready to restructure Nigeria, yet Buhari got a lot of votes in the South West. I will tell you that Buhari has no restructuring in his manifesto. Now that he has won the election, he cannot now turn around to tell those who voted him that he will restructure Nigeria. Buhari’s has no restructuring in his agenda for Nigeria.” Buhari Did Not Promise Restructuring – Rights Activist Sunday Akinwolu, a human rights activist, has expressed resentment over restructuring of the country by APC led Federal Government, saying there is no plan for the government to restructure the country judging from the campaign promises of President Muhammadu Buhari. Speaking on whether President Buhari should put restructuring on his priority list in his second term in office, Akinwolu was of the opinion that restructuring is necessary, but is not on the agenda of President Buhari for second term, unless Nigerians want to forced it on him. He said: “I think what Mr. President said in his first term was that restructuring is necessary, but not feasible. He explained that there is nothing wrong with the system, but the bastardisation of the system that the country is operating.” Akinwolu said what Nigeria as a country needed most is fiscal restructuring of the country because there is too much money at the centre with only few people patronising it or involved, while at the grassroots level, too many people are chasing just few money. According to him, “there is need to channel more money to the two levels of tiers of government, states and local governments, especially the grassroots level, to reduce poverty and criminal tendencies in the mind of the youths. I think the only problem that we are having as a nation is the approach through which the money needs to pass to the grassroots because of influence of most state governors. The government at the centre only needs to reduce the influence of the state governors on the local government councils to allow for flow of more money to the grassroots level. “Also, the presidential system which we practice as a system of governance needs to be reviewed because it is wasteful and encourages corruption at the top. So, fight against corruption cannot work out completely if resources at the centre are not redirected towards the grassroots levels. If President Buhari is not restructuring the country in his second term in office, the above are the few steps needed for him to be taken to change the situation. Since he has the political will to do that, he should be encouraged by all to do it.” It Is Belated To Ask Buhari To Restructure Nigeria – PPN/CUPP Chieftain Oloye Gbeyoga Adeniji, Lagos State chairman, Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) and Secretary General, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), stated: “It is belated. APC was formed by about four groups and a member of that group was initial proponent of restructuring. They came out from NADECO, it has a constitution: Alliance for Democracy (AD), Action congress (AC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and now APC, every four years, they would change name. “Today, they are in government at the centre. They are saying that restructuring is not in their agenda because of selfish interest, which is stupidity. I say that because when you open the space, all idea should blossom. Why do we have killings in Zamfara State? It is because there is gold there and the scavengers have turned to kidnappers and killers. They want to cordon off the area where they are doing illegal mining of gold. There are killings and kidnapping in Zamfara State. “Nigerian Army under President Buhari has turned to a band of bandits. What Boko Haram and Nigerian Army are doing in North East is trading. They are simply wasting our resources. One billion dollars exchange of victims of kidnap with Boko Haram. They are not deceiving us. Nigeria will outgrow this. The resources of the South West will be better managed by South West. We have gold in Osun State. The gold is being mined without coming into the coffers of government. “These crops of leaders are bandits. They are the proponents of Boko Haram. Where were they able to get all the votes from that area? In election time, they would cease fire and bombing, vote their leader. After the election, they would start killing. We are in this struggle because of our children. What I enjoyed in Nigeria, my children didn’t have the privilege. Now they are planning to bring in China to colonise us a second time through trade.”