Senator Ahmad  Lawan, lawmaker representing  Yobe North senatorial district recently declared his intention to vie for the position of Senate President in the ninth National Assembly. In this interaction, Lawan, the current Senate majority leader restated his commitment to the ideals of his party, All Progressives Congress (APC).  TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: Why do you think you should become the Senate President in the 9th National Assembly? I am running for this office because I believe that the experience we have gathered over the years in the National Assembly will help us run or operate a National Assembly that will make and provide sustaining positive change through legislative interventions. Our slogan is a Senate and a National Assembly that works for Nigerians. We believe that we need to work in a united manner. We may be in different platforms but the people we serve are the same. We want wealth to go round and not concentrated in a few hands. You cannot have security – we cannot sleep with our two eyes closed when the wealth cannot go round. You cannot develop a country if the majority remains poor. You cannot develop Nigeria if ordinary Nigerians cannot go to public schools and actualise their potential in education. These are the things we must do together. I have been in the National Assembly for almost 20 years. I have served in the House of Representatives for eight years and the Senate for 12 years, I thank God and my people for renewing my mandate. I am a progressive. I was an APP and later, ANPP House of Representatives member and I am now in the APC. I believe in the progressive politics, in ensuring that ordinary people – the masses – get support and opportunities to actualise their potentials and dreams. We should support entrepreneurship and business to grow and thrive for employment to boom.” What will be your focus if elected? Our main task if and when we make it is to ensure that we support the president, the party to implement our campaign promises. Let us start with the economy: we want an economy that will engender sustained, all inclusive growth. Our main constituency as a progressive party are the most ordinary people. That is not to say that those who are up there at the highest ladder of the economy are not with us. But majority of Nigerians who voted for APC are those very ordinary people in the villages and hamlets. It is, therefore, very critical and crucial for our administration to come up with sustainable programmes that will make life better for this set of people. And also support those who build the economy. That is those in the private sector so that they are able to create and sustain jobs. How will you work to address the issue of unemployment if elected? On employment, we have worked hard in the last three-and-half years as a government to ensure that there is employment. But we want to work harder to see that more Nigerians, especially the youth, get good jobs that will grow this economy, create wealth. We have social investment programmes. I want to see some reforms in the social investment programme, to improve it and make it more profound in terms of effect and efficiency. Agriculture has been one area that our administration has been working hard on. And today, we are happy to say that Nigeria doesn’t even import rice; something that we were spending so much of our foreign reserves to import. But what that means is: the billions of dollars that we were spending to import rice are now within this country. What about in the area of security? We have some of those areas of concern in terms of security. We need to support the Executive arm of government to continue to address the security concerns. But we have achieved so much, knowing full well that by 2015 when this administration came into office, so many parts of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa were under the control of Boko Haram insurgents. And they infiltrated up to Abuja here including the Force Headquarters. We have achieved so much in that area but we want to see a situation where the security architecture of this country is reformed. In fact, some of you here will recall that I headed a Security Committee on the Review of the Security Architecture in Nigeria. And we presented our report which recommended reforms in our Armed Forces, Police. It is not only giving money to the security agencies, you need to have such a structure that when you put in money, it will be utilised in a very productive, prudent, efficient and effective manner. On the anti-corruption fight, it is our mission to ensure that the President and this administration continue to fight against corruption. I can tell you that most of the ills that we are suffering today in this country are because people have stolen public funds. So when you are able to contain the excesses in that regard, you could have resources deployed properly. But I also believe that we should be proactive. Can we amend laws to make it difficult for people to embezzle in public office and even in the private sector? Why can’t we have special anti-corruption courts to support the fight against corruption in Nigeria? Because we need to fast track the legal processes to ensure that whoever is found guilty is prosecuted in a time that is reasonable. Also, why can’t we reform the educational sector? This is 21st century. Those who graduated from our institutions are able to contribute meaningfully whether they are in government employment or in the private sector. On the whole, we should be looking at law reforms also. Those laws that are obsolete – there are many of them. Those that require total overhaul or we come up with others to complement what we already have. Which National Assembly do you envisage especially given your relationship with the opposition members? We need to have a bipartisan chamber. We definitely will disagree from time to time because of party perspectives or something. But generally because we are senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, when we legislate, we do so for the entire country. And therefore, we need to remain united and focused. Whether you are APC or PDP or YPP, we have the same people to serve. So, we will work to ensure that we achieve and attain that desired unity within the chamber. There will be equity and fairness in our affairs. I am sure that once we are able to unite around national interest, we will contribute meaningfully to governance I was in the opposition for 16 years from 1999 to 2015. Even as an opposition, we knew where we would oppose and cooperate with the government. Take for example, the security of the country. Could there be any legislator who would oppose any legislation that would enhance the performance of our Armed Forces or Police to provide security? The answer is no.