ADO-EKITI – Again the seeming radical stance of Hon. Segun Adewumi has earned him six months suspension from  the Ekiti Assembly House of Assembly. Adewumi, former deputy speaker and member of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) representing Ekiti West Constituency 1 was sanctioned for alleged legislative misconduct. The suspension of the former Deputy Speaker, was attributed to undue interruption of the Speaker, Hon. Adeniran Alagbada, while presiding over the House at the plenary on Tuesday. The Speaker said  the  former Deputy Speaker during the period on suspension would be prevented from participating in any  plenary but  could only involve in off- plenary activities of the house. “I am still the presiding officer of this house and it constitutes an infraction for any member to interrupt me when I preside, except you have an observation to make.” “But with what transpired today, it seems Hon. Adewumi did not make any observation but only wanted to stall this proceeding and he is hereby banned for six weeks,” he ruled. Other lawmakers in their submissions agreed with the action, saying the Speaker didn’t circumvent the constitution and standing order in meting out the punitive measure on Adewumi. After the pronouncement, the lawmaker was said to have been ushered out of the hallowed chambers by the sergeant-at-arm. Discussing other issues of public importance after the initial snag, a bill for a law to repeal Ekiti State official logo Amendment Law Number 28 of 2014 and to re-enact Ekiti State government official logo law 2011 was passed by the Assembly. The bill which passed through the first reading was subjected to the second reading where it was debated by members and consequently passed through the third reading. Also, the Ekiti State development and investment promotion Agency Bill 2019 also passed through the first reading and committed to another legislative day for further legislative processes. However, the screening and confirmation of some political appointees at the House fixed for Tuesday was shifted on the request of the Executive.