P/Harcourt – The task of developing the Niger Delta is too important to be toyed with, and too compelling to waste time on. The region has suffered enough deprivation and President Muhammadu Buhari recognised the facts, this has prompted the action to redress the situation and reassure the people of the region of government’s commitment to their welfare through infrastructural development and capacity building. With  the appointment of Professor Nelson Brambaifa, as the Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development commission, on Friday, January 25, 2019, alongside that of the Acting Executive Director Finance and Administration, Mr Chris Amadi and the Acting Executive Director Projects, Engr. Dr Samuel Adjogbe, President Muhammadu Buhari  has demonstrated deep concern and  enduring love for the people of the Niger Delta region. The constitution of the new interim management team was a response to government’s commitment to developing the region and improving the living conditions of the people. Professor Brambaifa, the Acting Managing Director,  comes with over four decades of career experience to his new job at the NDDC,  his appointment is another step in the effort to offer genuine  hope to the Niger Delta people and restore their confidence and faith in rebuilding the  region. A  Professor of Pharmacology,  Brambaifa, has consistently carve a trail of  distinction in every assignment given to him. On assumption duties at the commission headquarters, he had assured management and staff that he will drive a new and  sustainable vision for the region. The new dawn in NDDC according to him  is an opportunity to do things differently for the development and actualization of the aspiration of the people. Being a child of the creek himself from Agbere community, in Sagbama council area of Bayelsa State, Brambaifa  has always shown deep concern about the plight of the people of the region. Having demonstrated the zeal to positively affect the  life of  his people as the commissioner representing Bayelsa state, on the immediate past governing board  of the commission, his vision as the Acting Managing Director of the commission  has already manifested within the short period he has led the management team. Brambaifa is insisting that the commission must provide for the region a credible roadmap for building a rapidly growing economy which will eliminate prevailing extreme poverty and foster prosperity in an environmentally and socially sustainable level across the region. As a respecter of the traditional institution, Prof. Brambaifa , said the  commission will work with traditional rulers for sustainable development in the region given their crucial role in ensuring peace as well providing a platform for dialogue. The Acting MD expressed the hope that the royal fathers continue to support the development process given that  they play a crucial role in ensuring peace as well as providing a platform for dialogue in the region. To serve as a clearing house for it projects, he  said that efforts were being made to revive the Partnership for Sustainable Development, PSD forum, as  an important organ for bringing all the stakeholders under one umbrella to aid the process of harmonizing development projects as enunciated in the Niger Delta Regional Development Master plan. At the visit of a delegation of the European Union to the commission, Brambaifa, had reminded the visiting  team that the commission will strengthen its collaboration with the EU, through the Niger Delta Support Programme, NDSP, to resuscitate abandoned water infrastructure across the nine Niger Delta states. According to him much could be achieve through institutionalizing community-based management structure for the maintenance and sustainability of basic infrastructure in the region and emphasised the  need to develop a framework to ensure community ownership of water projects in the region. Prof. Brambaifa had also told  the  Izon Elders Council from  Delta State,  who visited him at the Commission’s headquarters in Port Harcourt  that the goal of the commission leadership is  to uplift the living standard of the people, engage in infrastructural development and drive a robust capacity building. “These are the things we are doing to promote the stability of our region, and we urge you to be partners with us.” Expressing the urgent need for a renewed commitment by the leadership of the commission, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Pastor Usani Usani, during  working visit to commission as the supervisory Ministry, had told the Management team that the President Buhari led Government is determined to succeed with the programmes at the NDDC. Accompanied by his Minister of State, Prof. Claudius Daramola, the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Alhaji Aminu Aliyu-Bisalla and other directors of the supervising ministry, said that the current NDDC management, being an interim one, was expected to do more for the people of the Niger Delta than a regular board. “We expect every functionary and staff of the commission to appreciate this fact and put up the very best efforts in the performance of their duties,” he said. “It may be too early to assess the performance of the new management team. But it is essential for us to know that the task for the management is a greater burden than it would have been if it has longer time to stay.” According to the Minister, his ministry would continue to supervise the Commission to ensure that it performs maximally “because the performance of NDDC goes a long way to determine the forms of agitation we get from the different segments of members of Niger Delta society.” The secretary of the Bayelsa First Initiative group, Mr Mekunisi Aworabi , while commending President Buhari for the appointment of Professor Brambaifa as the Acting MD, of the commission, described the appointment as a right step in the right direction, Given Prof. Brambaifa’s tract record  and  experience as an academic and former Representative of Bayelsa State in the immediate past Board, the leadership said he  has shown good  leadership and competence within the short period he has led the board. Mr  Aworabi  said, the  Acting MD is already standing up to the challenges of giving direction to actualisation of the objective of the commission. Stakeholders and youths in region see a hope of clear leadership devoid of partisanship and scheming for political aspiration. For sustainability the BFI, has urged President Mohamed Buhari to appoint the University don as the substantive Managing Director of the commission having shown a very high level skills , competence and a disposition of a technocrat  in the past few months. A quiet unassuming man, the Acting MD had shown  extreme  brilliance in his early days  as he had dazzled his teachers in far  away Free University, Berlin, in the old West Germany where he graduated with a degree Vor-diplom Biochemie  ( Biochemistry), in 1974. In pursuit of a higher degree, four years later  and in quick succession in the path of  scholarly procession,  he earned  first of many higher degree Diplom Biochemie in Oral Examination in Biochemistry, Clinical Chemistry, Inorganic Chemistry and Pharmacy graduating with distinction from the same University. By 1982 he has earned his Doktor der Naturwisseshaften (Dr.rer.nat) in Oral Examination in Pharmalogy, Biochemistry, clinical Chemistry and organic chemistry, progressing in the process to Research Assistant in Research Laboratories of Scharing , Research Fellow in Scharing Central Research both in Berlin and a post –Doctoral Research fellow at UCLAF in the Loire Valley France. Professor Brambaifa has worked as team leader in Scchearing,  Central Research Department of Neuroendocrinology and Neuropscychopharmacology ( 1984-1993) and a professor of Biochemical Pharmacology (1996-date) As a scientist his attention to detailed clinical inquiry remains precise and sustained as a teacher, he is as inspiring as he is an example of ceaseless scholarship, reflecting a mind of profound intellect and a passion of unerring gusto.