LAGOS – Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the governor-elect of Lagos state has been charged to ensure the completion of ongoing projects in Lagos State which Akinwunmi Ambode, the outgoing governor may not complete because of time. Giving the advice in Lagos in a chat with Sunday INDEPENDENT, Prof. Itse Sagay SAN, Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) also advised that Sanwo-Olu should not embark on new projects until he has completed all the current projects being undertaken by the Ambode administration. He also asked Sanwo-Olu to emulate President Muhammadu Buhari who has commissioned majority of the projects left behind by the Goodluck Jonathan administration. He said, “My advice to the governor-elect of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu is that he should complete all on-going projects in Lagos state, just like what the federal government is doing now by completing the projects that were not finished by the Goodluck Jonathan administration. “You don’t leave uncompleted projects and go and start new ones. Sanwo-Olu should complete any project that Ambode, the outgoing governor has started because at the end of the day, government is a continuum.” Sagay who said Ambode erred by abandoning some good projects left behind by his predecessor, Babatunde Fashola such as the Lagos Home Ownership Mortgage Scheme (Lagos HOMS) project and the Railway project urged Sanwo-Olu not to toe the same path. “What Ambode did about the Lagos HOMS project that he abandoned will not speak well for him when the history of Lagos is written because a lot of Lagosians need accommodation in the state now and you can see the buildings wasting away without being completed. To resuscitate them in future will cost a lot of money. “You can even see that the Lagos Metroline has slowed down. Nobody is working there. Since Babatunde Fashola left, there is hardly any construction going on and this is something that will have a fantastic and positive impact on Lagos because people can now drop their cars from Badagry areas right to the centre of Lagos. “When they are done, they can take a ride back; pick up their cars at the rail station and go. This is how it operates in civilised countries. So, what he did by not completing the Lagos HOMS project is wrong but nevertheless, I will not want Sanwo-Olu to do the same thing on projects that Ambode is unable to complete,” stated Sagay. He continued, “I don’t believe in that kind of politics because your achievements will be undermined if you abandoned projects which your predecessors couldn’t complete. I will advise Sanwo-Olu to complete the ones that Ambode couldn’t complete.  In fact, he shouldn’t start new ones until he completes the existing ones.”