Lagos – The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), penultimate Wednesday, pulled party stalwarts and supporters from all the local government areas across the state to its secretariat at Ikeja GRA for a special meeting which the party said is an opportunity for members to brainstorm on issues relating to the future of the party in the state. According to the chief host, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, who is the incumbent state chairman of the party, the meeting, which is the first after the just concluded general elections was a “special meeting convened to take stocks of the last election and to deliberate on the way forward in order to reposition the party for victory in future elections”. Dominic, in his address, also said the meeting was called to brainstorm on how to seek understanding of the situation in the party and to seek ways of thinking together on the common challenges confronting the party. The party chair who  also  enjoined leaders and members to start building the party structure from now ahead of 2023 to enable it to wrestle power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, admitted that the party showed no sign of winning the last governorship poll in the state, but was prepared fully for the presidential election. He also expressed confidence that Atiku Abubakar, the party’s presidential candidate in the just concluded elections will retrieve his mandate at the Tribunal. He said  “ May I use this opportunity to formally express my appreciation to you, great members of our great party for your steadfastness, and unflinching support, commitment and loyalty to the great cause of the People’s Democratic Party before, during and after the elections”. “I commend your resilience and gallant disposition in the face of the massive manipulations and intimidation that was the order throughout the elections. Nevertheless, we wait patiently and with high expectations that justice will prevail at the various election tribunals, especially the Presidential Elections Tribunal, and our mandate that was given by the people of Nigeria to Atiku Abubakar will be restored to us”. “We have learned some very good lessons from the events of the elections which should leverage the reorganization of our party and determinedly instill in our members (both leaders and followers), an attitude of discipline, loyalty and commitment to the ideals of this great party”. “In this regard, various leadership fora, including the State CWC, have met severally, and all are agreed that the following actions are necessary for the repositioning and progress of our party; collapsing all groups and factions into one unified PDP structure; Institutionalizing Internal Democracy by letting the people, and only the people, choose their party officers and other leaders at all levels. Therefore, the practice of allotting or allocating party and other offices to individual leaders or groups or factions shall be abolished completely. Whoever wants to hold office should seek such by himself or herself from the members at all levels, beginning from the Ward”. Dominic also said that ahead of 2023 elections, the state chapter of PDP would, in line with the consensus reached among elders and leaders of the party, be restructured and administered on basis of 57LGAs as being operated by the ruling APC and other parties as against the 20LGAs, which currently applied in PDP. “It is unrealistic and unwise for our party to be administered on the basis of 20 Local Government areas in Lagos state, while the APC and other parties are operating 57 LGA party structures. In Lagos State, there are 57 functional Local Governments (which are also referred to as ‘20 LGAs and 37 LCDAs) for the purpose of conformity with the Federal Constitution. These 57 LGAs are legal entities duly recognized by the Laws of Lagos State. Therefore administering our own party on the basis of 20 LGAs will continue to put us at electoral disadvantage to other parties. The State CWC has therefore resolved and recommended the restructuring of our party administration to conform with the 57 LGA structure. A Special Committee has been put in place to work out the modalities for implementation of these reforms”. Also, speaking on the purported leadership crisis in the state chapter of the party, Dominic said he remains the authentic state chairman, adding that a chieftain of the party, Segun Adewale, popularly called Aeroland who is laying claim to the position is no longer a member of the party. “I wish to state clearly here that there is no crisis within the Lagos PDP. Recently, a character called Segun Adewale aka Aeroland has been issuing public statements announcing himself as the chairman of our party in Lagos State, claiming that he has sacked me and my Executive Committee and has taken over our Secretariat. That of course is not true, as you can see for yourselves”. “It is true that Mr. Segun Adewale led a gang of hoodlums, brandishing guns and other dangerous weapons, to invade this secretariat.  For two consecutive days, they terrorized and harassed our staff and visitors at the secretariat, dispossessing them of their valuables. We informed the Police who moved in swiftly and arrested some of the thugs. Segun Adewale on his part was said to have disappeared from the scene. He later surfaced at the Police station where he was seen with the other thugs”. “They were eventually released on bail, and instructed to report back at the Police station on Friday 5th April. I have reliable information that they did not report back as required. They are therefore now certainly being wanted by the Police. Let me assure you that a new era has begun in the PDP. There shall be zero tolerance for any acts of criminality, indiscipline or thuggery from any quarters whatsoever. In the case of Segun Adewale, he is not a member of our party; and this has been repeatedly stated by the party leadership, including myself as the Lagos State Chairman, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, National Vice Chairman, Elder Yemi Akinwonmi, the Deputy National Chairman, and our foremost leader in Lagos State, Chief Olabode George|”. “Even PDP members in his Alimosho community have written several letters disowning him to the Police and State and National leadership of the party. One of such letters, signed by over 750 members, is available for your perusal. . “Therefore, because he is not a member of our party, the issue of disciplinary action against him would not arise.  We can only hand him over to the Police, which we have done; and we are quite confident that the Police is in control of the situation” he said. The meeting was attended by bigwigs which include Bimbo Ogunkelu, a former minister for Cooperation and Integration in Africa, Dr Charles Akitoye, a former National Secretary of the PDP, Chief Tunji Shelle, a former state chairman of the party, Chief Mrs Onikepo- Oshodi,  Mrs Dewunmi Williams, Phillip Aivoji, Barr. Gani Taofik, the party’s publicity secretary and host of others.