President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday expressed sadness over the death of one Kolade Johnson. Kolade was alleged to have been shot by a member of a police team, while he was watching a Premier League fixture between Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur in Lagos on Sunday. Johnson’s death has since sparked widespread criticisms, with a renewed call on the Federal Government to end the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (F-SARS) unit of the police. Speaking on the development, Buhari on his verified Twitter handle wrote: “Deepest condolences to the family and friends of Kolade Johnson, victim of the March 31 fatal shooting in Lagos. “Police have assured that the Team suspected of involvement in the shooting have been apprehended and are undergoing disciplinary procedure. Updates will be provided.” However, Nigerians responding to Buhari’s message urged the President to put an end to police brutality of Nigerians by eradicating SARS. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter: @idjthriller “We’re tired of apologies after lives lost. EndSARS now.” @4wardNaija “Oga presido! Time to work with lawmakers to get that 70 years plus law governing the police and reform NPF! End police brutality. Enough of the killings.” @Shubomiii_ “Too quick to come here to drop condolences. Enough of that nonsense, keep the condolences to yourself. Scrap this nonsense group(SARS). It won’t take a whole day to do.” @MissGvg “Not just condolences. If herdsmen are not slaughtering Nigerian citizens, it is Book Haram. If it isn’t police killing citizens, then it is kidnappers on the highway. @MBuhari your office is not just for talk or decoration. Be a leader! Sack the IG of police. Actually implement reforms.” @Erriomson “Show us evidence of action taken. You can’t keep making press release, while Nigerian citizens keep facing the same fate on daily basis.” @Temitorpe1 “We want their pictures not condolences and where they are being held.” @Lekanskillz12 “Oga what we need is total eradication of these nuisance factions of our police force. Enough of avoidable condolences End SARS, End police brutality.” @Kizzybeat “We want them to be publicly prosecuted.” @Bin_Ismail “Please we don’t only need the team to be persecuted we want you to end SARS in general.” @gerrardcc “Just disband them already, please! They’re utterly useless.”