LAGOS – At least, five leading unions in the Nigerian aviation industry would from today commence the picketing of Caverton Helicopters for using the men of Rapid Response Squad (RRS) to brutalise at least 12 of its members who were carrying out peaceful protest to press home for their terminal benefits. Management of Caverton Helicopters had last Wednesday allegedly engaged the RRS to dismantle the protesting union members and some staff of the company who were asking for the implementation of their terminal benefits, redundancy payment and other welfare issues, which the unions had been discussing with the management in the past one year. The unions, National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE); Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN); Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals (ANAP); National Association of Air Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) and Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations Civil Services Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE), had all indicated participation in picketing Caverton starting from Monday. The unions, in a circular dated April 10 and signed by their General Secretaries, Ocheme Aba (NUATE), Frances Akinjole (ATSSSAN), Abdulrasaq Saidu (ANAP), Umoh Ofonime (NAAPE) and Bello M.A for AUPCTRE, said the picketing would be indefinite until the management of the helicopter company acceded to their demands. Apart from the picketing of the company in Lagos, the unions said that other office of Caverton in Port Harcourt would also be shutdown, adding that its members in the state would assemble at the NAF Base operations of Caverton Helicopters to carry out similar protests. The circular read in part: “In the early hours of Thursday April 9, 2019, the Nigeria Police Force stormed Caverton Helicopters – Commando fashion-and intimidated, harassed, assaulted, brutalised and traumatised officials and members of NUATE who were engaged in the lawful activity of picketing Caverton Helicopters under the directive of the union. 12 of them were violently whisked away to unknown destination. “They were later found to have been detained at a facility in Oshodi, Lagos, operated by the Lagos State Environmental Safety Corps Task Force. “Though all 12 comrades were later released, after mass protest at the airport by fellow comrades, but, it is noteworthy that no particular charges were entered against them by the police. Also NUATE’s official vehicle was towed away to the same facility, but damaged beyond repair in the process. “Two of the assaulted comrades are still on treatment of injuries received at the hands of the police, while the lone female comrade among them is currently on trauma therapy.” The unions insisted that it would not allow any organisation to harass its members who were carrying out their lawful protest and condemned the attack on its members. The group further informed that their unions had fully briefed their respective labour centres, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and United Labour Congress (ULC). They maintained that picketing of Caverton Helicopters would continue until all employees owed are paid their due terminal benefits as negotiated by the affected unions, NUATE, ATSSSAN and NAAPE. Recall that at least, 12 members of the protesting unions were whisked away by officials of RRS, who insisted that their picketing was illegal, while no fewer than five were thereafter hsopitalised as a result of the various injuries sustained during the attak. The RRS officials were allegedly invited to disrupt the peaceful protest of the unions by the management of Caverton Helicopters. One of the union leaders, who identified himself as Paul Igene, alleged that the workers were assaulted because Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was due to fly with one of the helicopters of the company last Tuesday. He also alleged that when its members queried the brutality meted out on the workers by the RRS officials, they claimed that it was order from above.”