ABUJA – Professor Isaac Adewole, the minister of health, on Monday, said the Federal Government had put plans in place towards achieving the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) through additional support and sustainable resources to implement and sustain the gains. Adewole added that sustainable financing, eliminating inequity, improving on community participation, and building and sustaining partnerships, as well as ensuring accountability and transparency “were very critical to our health system.” He made this known in his message to commemorate this year’s World Health Day with theme: ‘Universal Health Coverage: everyone, everywhere’.  The slogan is ‘Health for All’. Adewole said the theme was in alignment with President Muhammadu Buhari’s resolve to provide qualitative healthcare to all Nigerians. Accordingn to him, care provision fund ensures that all Nigerians were covered with some form of health insurance to prevent any of us from falling into poverty as a result of sickness. To do this, he explained, would require the efforts of all stakeholders- civil society, legislators, media, development partners and other social sectors of the economy and the community. All hands, he continued, needed to be on deck to deliver on Universal Health Coverage. The minister further stated that “this celebration represents our common interests, partnership and collective action to move from political will to political action in our efforts to provide Universal Health Coverage for the benefit of our people. “Our strategies towards achieving UHC include the enactment of the National Health Act 2014, which provides a legal framework for ensuring that primary healthcare remains the fulcrum of our national health care delivery system. “The act also provides for an additional financing stream for sustainable interventions through the Basic Health Care Provision Fund programme (BHCPF). The Basic Health Care Provision Fund targets women, children and the vulnerable with a basic minimum package of health services to be delivered to them at the point of care without out of pocket payment. “As part of our stewardship role, we have proactively pursued the implementation of other innovative strategies that will contribute to strengthening our health systems as well as position it towards accelerating Universal Health Coverage. “The Federal Government has kick-started the implementation of the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) by appropriating 1% of the consolidated revenue of the federation in fulfillment of Section 11 of the National Health Act in the 2018 budget. Other Development partners such as the World Bank through the Global Facility Financing and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have also contributed to the Fund.”