LAGOS – The battle for the soul of Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has continued to rage as two prominent party chieftains, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, the incumbent chairman, and Otunba Segun Adewale, popularly called Aeroland, and former chairman, are laying claim to the number one seat of the main opposition party. Dominic had been the party’s chairman for some months now. He was in charge during the recently held general elections in the state. But, Adewale had last Monday, in the company of his placard-carrying supporters, gone to the PDP secretariat in Lagos to announce his decision to take over the seat of power, which he vacated three years ago due to some internal issues, even though he claimed that he had up to 2021 to serve as the number one man in the party’s State Executive ouncil. The former chairman had accused Chief Bode George, the party’s former Deputy National Chairman, of unilaterally without recourse to the party’s constitution, installed Dominic as the state chairman. On arrival at the party’s secretariat with his supporters, carrying placards with various inscriptions, such as ‘O To Gee For Chief Bode George’, ‘Adewale Is Our Chairman’, ‘Dominic Is Illegally Occupying The Chairman Seat’, etcetera, had sought that Adewale must take over as chairman. These young men and women were fierce looking and their countenance showed that they meant business. The politician stated that his tenure was to expire in 2021, having taken over mantle of the party’s leadership in 2016, but had to relinquish power as a result of issues in the party. He noted that Chief George unilaterally, against the party’s constitution, picked Dominic as the PDP’s Acting State Chairman. He stressed that the constitution only recognised State Executive Committee or congress as a means of filling vacant positions or electing state officers. He maintained that George and his loyalists did that by fiat, noting that the party had not fared well in recent elections in the state because those saddled with the responsibility of leadership had personal interests. The one-time PDP state chairman recalled that in 2015, he won seven out of 10 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Lagos West, garnered victory for House of Assembly and House of Representatives members, but lamented that the reverse had become the case now because of the kind of leadership the party had. The party leader said he did not have any problem with the chairmen of the 20 LGAs, and other state executives because they were duly elected. He insisted that Dominic was illegally installed as chairman and if nothing was done to correct that, he (Adewale) had the right to lay claim to chairmanship based on the 2016 letter of appointment given to him and also for the reason that no court or National Executive Committee sacked him. He said: “I emerged as the state chairman during the reign of the then national chairman of the party in 2016 to oversee the affairs of the party for four years, which should ordinarily terminate in 2021. I stepped aside when there were some issues within the party, which did not amount to my resignation as chairman. Chief Bode George against the constitution, Section 46 – 48, unilaterally picked an acting chairman, Dr. Adegbola Dominic. “Our constitution recognises State Executive Committee or congress as the only means of filling vacant position or electing state officers, but not by fiat as carried out by Chief Bode George and his loyalists. Adegbola, on resumption, instead of working to unite the party, began to appoint new chairman in all the Local Government Areas (LGAs) against the authentic chairmen recognised by the party. “The few House of Representatives seats we struggled to win, two of them, Surulere and Ajeromi Ifelodun, are being contended by All Progressives Congress (APC) and Chief Bode George, as a leader, has not uttered a statement or showed any concern over the matter. It is clear that they don’t want victory for the party in Lagos. They would prefer to contend with leadership positions. I want to state here that the police do not have any right to interfere in our internal party affairs. We are not here to cause civil disturbance, but to have a peaceful assembly. It is our fundamental human right.” He debunked rumour that he was no longer a member of the party, maintaining that he had since July last year rejoined the party from Action Democratic Party (ADP) and had shown so much support for PDP during the just-concluded elections when he donated five Hummer Jeeps and millions of naira to support the party. Challenging the people on the other side, he requested that they should make bold to show their contributions to the development of the party since they became members. Dominic, on his part, said that Adewale had since ceased to be a member of the party. He noted that the invasion of PDP secretariat by people he termed as a gang of hoodlums, brandishing guns and other dangerous weapons, led by Adewale, claiming to be the chairman of the party, was illegal because, according to him, e (Adewale) was no longer a member of the party. He said that the party had written repeatedly disowning him, and even PDP members in Alimosho community numbering over 750, had signed a letter disowning him as well. Dominic had continued to act as though what Adewale had said was the ranting of an ant. He had carried on with his duties as a duly appointed party chairman, admonishing members on the need to join forces with him to build a stronger party. In a membership assembly last week, Dominic appreciated the party members for their resilience and gallant disposition in the face of massive manipulations and intimidation that was the order throughout the last elections, even as he noted that there was a high expectations that justice would prevail at the various tribunals, especially the presidential elections tribunal, where there was high hopes that the party’s presidential candidate, Alhji Atiku Abubakar, would regain his mandate. Dominic said the party had learnt its lessons from the events of the general elections and was determined to reorganise the party, instill discipline, loyalty and commitment to the PDP’s ideals. He said: “The State Working Committee (SWC) met and have decided to collapse all groups and fractions into one unified PDP, institutionalise internal democracy by letting people choose their party officers and leaders at all levels. It is unrealistic, unwise and structurally defective for our party to be administered on the basis of 20 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Lagos State, while All Progressives Congress (APC) and other parties are operating 57 LGA structure. The SWC has recommended the restructuring of our party’s administration to conform to 57 LGA working structure, which will put us at an advantaged position. “In the case of Segun Adewale, he is not a member of our party. This has been repeatedly stated by the party leadership, including myself as chairman, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, National Vice Chairman and our foremost leader in Lagos State, Chief Bode George. Even PDP members in his Alimosho LGA have written many letters disowning him to the police, state and national leadership of the party. One of such letters was signed by 750 members and is available for your perusal. He is not a member of the party and so the issue of disciplinary action against him would not arise. We can only hand him over to the police. We have done our part, and we are quite confident that the police are in control of the situation.” It is not clear what is going on in the minds of the national leadership of the major opposition party in Lagos State. But, the truth remains that this is not the right time to go to war when they have very important issues to attend to, one of which is reclaiming the mandates which they had claimed were stolen by the ruling party. It is also very clear that the party would definitely not fare well at the tribunals with a divided house.