That Nigeria is currently in its worst state of insecurity is an understatement. In several parts of the country, Nigerians are being killed everyday. While the Boko Haram pummel the citizens in the North East geo-political zones, herdsmen and cattle rustlers kill, maim and abduct people in their homes and farms. Several communities have been attacked, while many have deserted their homes to save themselves from marauding bandits, kidnappers and all forms of killers who hack down Nigerians with their weapons, which include AK47, machetes, axes and other forms of weapons. In Sokoto JIgawa, Southern Kaduna, Nasarawa, Benue, Plateau, Zamfara states, among others, the story is the same. Blood of innocent Nigerians are spilled by the day. So far, there seems to be no solution in sight as the nation’s security agencies seem to have been overwhelmed by the magnitude of killings across the country. The situation is not really peculiar to the North. Recently, Enugu and parts of Delta State communities were kit by the rampaging herdsmen, while kidnapping, armed robbery and cult killings have become the order of the day in every part of the country. In fact, Nigerian are under siege, as many now live in fear across the country. The question that bothers the minds of Nigerian is: How can President Muhammadu Buhari address this rising wave of insecurity in the country? Security Agencies Should Evolve New Strategies To Tackle Current Challenges – Businessman Okafor Emeka, a Minna-based businessman, said: “President Muhammadu Buhari has already started addressing the rising wave of insecurity in Nigeria. However, his actions are somehow belated because a lot of people have been killed for perhaps an offence they knew nothing about. “The killings have been widespread, but more in some states like; Kaduna, Benue, Plateau, Zamfara, Sokoto, Taraba. That is why many Nigerians are concluding that the President is no longer in control of security situations in this country. “I would have suggested outright sack of the entire Security Chiefs. But then, one would ask: Is it the Security Chiefs that are causing insecurity or the dimension of the situation and the Nigerian factor? It has been reported how President Buhari had had series of meetings with Security Chiefs in Abuja in the wake of the killings, which have continued unabated for update on security situation. I believe the seeming endless killing of Nigerians is top on the agenda of the meetings. “I also heard that the legislature, National Assembly has come hard on the executive arm of government on the issue for the ‘inability’ of the President, who incidentally is a retired General in the Nigerian Army, to curtail the killings. “In doing so, the House of Representatives, I was told, has given the President 48 hours to address the nation on the security situation, else it will be assumed that he (President) and his team of Security Chiefs can no longer manage the security situation going by the daily security lapses, including kidnapping along some major routes, ritual murders, armed banditry and of course, the worst of it all, Boko Haram, which the Federal Government had told Nigerians over a year ago that the terrorist group is no longer portent or have been depleted. “I am really worried about what the country has gotten into and I believe Nigerians wherever they may find themselves also feel the same way. A situation whereby citizens are no longer safe in their country under the President Buhari-led All Progressive Congress (APC) is not a good testimony at all. “How can President Buhari address the situation? Security should be evolving, not stagnated to a particular format or rule. They should always be thinking ahead whenever each scenario unfolds. The security apparatus of this great country under the present circumstance should go back to their thinking boxes and come up with new strategies that will meet the present security challenges in Nigeria today. “Again, the government should tighten its noose on boarder areas where arms are imported into Nigeria. No sentiment about it. We have porous borders. People are just walking into Nigeria from especially the northern fringes unhindered, taking advantage of language and religion to smuggle dangerous weapons into Nigeria. This must stop if the Federal Government wants to be seen as fighting to protect the territorial integrity of Nigeria. “Above all and most importantly, a lot of things have gone wrong in the land. There is widespread hunger, socio-economic and political deprivations, causing wide gap between the have and the have-nots in Nigeria today. All these largely contributed to increase in rate of security challenges. “The government should not pretend not to know about these. We churn out graduates almost on a daily basis, but no jobs for them. A good number of these unemployed, in desperation to survive the odds, decide to join the foray in taking demeaning jobs, some taking up arms because they cannot get jobs or have the wherewithal to create jobs for themselves. “I expect the government to do more of action and less talking in trying to solve the myriads of problems the country is grappling with.” Buhari Should Declare A State Of Emergency On Security – Estate Manager Dr. Ogbeide Innocent Amenaghowon, a Benin-based Estate Manager and Valuer, said: “I decided not to cast my vote for President Buhari in the last election because of this issue of security. In the last four years, the President failed woefully in the area of security. I don’t know how he is going to tackle it in the next four years. “I am seeing a worst situation ahead because there is nothing in place now to suggest that the issue of security that is now threatening the existence of many states in the Northern part of the country in particular and the entire country in general is being addressed. “Let us be sincere to ourselves. The country has never had it so bad. I heard the Acting Inspector General of Police saying he has cleared Abuja-Kaduna highway of banditry and that people can now move freely on that road. If that assertion is true, we will commend him. But, the reports we are getting from Zamfara, Katsina and many other states in the North, with Bornu and Yobe states as worst hit, are anything to go by, then the nation’s security architecture of the country and those in charge need a general overhaul. “The only solution to the present security problem in country is for the President to declare a state of emergency in security. The issue is not peculiar to the Northern states alone. Some of the Southern states are not better off either. Last week, there were reports that some people were killed in Delta and Enugu states by headsmen, while the issue of kidnapping has increased in almost every state soon after the general elections. “What is happening in the country presently is not unexpected because for the past four years, the nation’s security management has been left in the hands of incompetent people from the top to the bottom. “The only way out is for President Buhari to wake up from slumber and face the situation squarely. With the present situation, I am beginning to support those calling for state police. I believe a regulated state police will make some impact in the present situation. “Before then, let every community across the country encourage local vigilante groups, to be supervised by the Nigeria Police.” Buhari Should Revisit National Conference Report – Activist Kindness Jonah, the Convener of Voice from the East (V-EAST) believes that only the 2014 National Conference report could address the growing insecurity in the country. Jonah said Buhari should dust up the report from his shelf where he abandoned it and then, religiously and articulately implement it. He said the recommendations made by eminent Nigerians in the report were, if implemented, capable of tracking the growing insecurity in the country. He said: “So, generally, what should be done is to convene a serious national meeting, excavate the dusted 2014 National Conference papers and religiously implement them. “A bird eye view of the postulation above is like squaring the circle, if the fundamental problem of Nigeria is not addressed, which in summative chronology is embedded in the word, secularity of state.” Buhari Should Re-jig Security Apparatus, Bring In New, Fresh Minds – Political Analyst Aliyu Modibo, Kaduna-based political analyst and security expert, said President Muhammadu Buhari has displayed a total lack of political will to confront the rising insecurity challenges bedeviling the nation, probably, because it has to do with persons who are perceived to be from his own stock, the Fulani. According to Modibo, the rising cases of attacks in the Northwest region have all been linked to Fulani herdsmen, but Mr. President, with all due respect, treated all of these reports with kid gloves and blame games He stressed: “These attackers are now hiding under the guise of bandits. But, we must all understand one thing; bandits don’t just attack villages and kill people indiscriminately. These so-called bandits raze down houses, rape, maim and kill. Where are our intelligence officers? Where are the Service Chiefs? “They have all become too complacent in their duties and there is that strong need to re-jig the entire security apparatus and bring in new and fresh minds with the right zeal to achieve results, except if, and I mean if, he (Buhari) truly wants to rid the country of these social misfits who are spilling the blood of innocent souls. “Just like Sani Abacha said, ‘if insurgency survives 48hrs, then the government has a hand in it’. Is this an indication that government truly knows what is happening and has a hand in it? “In addressing the rising insecurity, the President must take responsibility and act on his Oath of Office to defend all, irrespective of tribe, religion and ethnicity and remember, he is President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Nigerians Need To Hear Buhari Condemn Totally These Actions – Commentator Chatlang Bitiyong, commentator on national affairs, stated: “These insecurity challenges have gone beyond mere talk and deserve more actions from the President. “His very recent directive to the Service Chiefs to immediately bring to an end all cases of banditry and kidnapping across the country seems more like his order to soldiers during the just-concluded general elections as regards ballot box snatching. More like a drama, I would say. “We all recall when cattle rustlers evoked his ire and we all saw the President in military uniform to give bite to his orders. “With the spate of killings today, we need to truly hear the President condemn totally these actions that is claiming the lives of innocent souls, especially here in the North. “Kidnappers now take time to operate freely on our highways, snatching scores from their vehicles into bushes without as much as fear from our security operatives. No, we cannot continue like this.” Security Institutions Should Be Thoroughly Overhauled – APP Scribe Nzeh Nnawuba Johnson Ijenna is the Secretary, Action Peoples Party (APP), Ehime Mbano Council Area, Imo State. He stated: “First, our security institutions should be thoroughly overhauled and equipped, with experts placed at the helm. In our fight against insecurity, we should do away with religious, ethnic and political sentiments. “Once you are qualified and fit to do the job, you should be allowed to do it in the interest of the nation. The bad eggs, who are still in the services of our security agencies, should be shown the way out. Again, traditional rulers, whose domains are believed to be hot beds for criminals, should be dethroned.” Buhari Should Apply More Stringent Measures To Check Insecurity – NCP Woman Leader Nneoma Chinyere Uzoma, Women Leader National Conscience Party (NCP), Ihitte/Uboma LGA, Imo State, opined: “Insecurity in our nation is a big problem. But, I think the Federal Government should apply more stringent measures on those who play to the gallery, claiming to be protecting lives and properties. “Do you not know that some of our security agencies are not brave enough to confront criminals whenever they strike? Give the boys the necessary training, both local and overseas and engage them. I suggest that policemen be made to serve in their states of origin.” The Nation’s Borders Needs Proper Policing – Lawyer Barrister Adewale Oladapo, an Osogbo-based lawyer, has said it was high the Federal Government took decisive measures and steps on the nation’s porous borders, especially in the northern part of the country to address the rising insecurity in the country. Oladapo said the nation’s borders are too numerous and porous and through these porous borders lots of illegal goods enter into the country unchecked, stressing that the government at the centre needs not leave manning the borders to the Customs officers alone. He suggested that military should be deployed to borders to check influx of arms and ammunition into the country illegally. Oladapo also said that stiffer penalty should be meted to illegal smugglers, not by ceasing their goods, adding that the consequence of smuggling arms and ammunitions and other contraband items should be death penalty, because by their actions, they cause a lot of damages or harm to the country. “Even in other West African countries, you dare not just import anything without paying dearly for it. It is only in Nigeria that such illicit acts and action happens,” he stressed. He further admonished the government at the centre to crush all criminal minded militia groups in the country because they are the one providing training for the evil minded Nigerians. Oladapo also suggested to President Buhari to immediately set up a tribunal that will as quickly as possible handle cases of illegal smugglers and importers of arms and ammunition into the country. Government’s search light should also be beamed at some politicians who are sponsoring illegal arms and ammunitions into the country.