Osogbo – The authorities of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) have declared that it was not ready to part with an inch of its landed property to private individuals. The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede made the declaration while addressing newsmen on the development over alleged pollution of Opa Dam which is the main source of water supply to staff and students. Speaking through the University Public Relations Officer, Abiodun Olanrewaju, Professor  Ogunbodede who lamented that land grabbers in the name of Great Ice Development Board had encroached its land and had partitioned it into plots and selling to unsuspecting members of the public said the land belongs to the federal government and not ready to part with an inch of the land. Conducting newsmen round the disputed land spanning 120 hectares, Olanrewaju explained that those he referred to as “some individuals” had approached the institution and said some parcels of the land given to the institution at inception should be relinquished. He, however, said the land occupied by the institution belonged to the federal government of Nigeria and had been gazetted, adding that the university was not ready to part with its land. Olanrewaju also said the land grabbers after putting sacrifices round three new hostels with the capacity to accommodate 360 students built by the institution, forced the university to jettison the plan to allocate rooms in the building to its students. According to him, those behind the move to forcefully take over the institution’s land, after erecting a signpost bearing ‘Ife Community’ on the land, ordered the institution to stop work on the ongoing construction work on the hostel for OAU International School and chased away security guards employed by the university from the area. On the allegations that the land grabbers poisoned the dam supplying water to the institution, Olanrewaju in affirmation said, “one of our security guards saw those men that poisoned our water”. “He saw them when they approached our dam. Those that perpetrated the act carried dangerous weapons and they overpowered our security man before they put the poison in the water. “We were lucky that they could not gain access to the main source of the dam. All aquatic creatures from the point where they put the water all died. “And the stench coming from the water at the point the act was carried out was unbearable. But a few days after, it rained and that flushed away the poison. We took the water to lab for laboratory analysis and it was confirmed safe for drinking. “We will remain peaceful but the university will not cede its land to anyone. We are ready for partnership with Ife town to develop our land but not with any individual. We also warn members of the public against dealing with those behind this issue.”