Osogbo – Business and commercial activities in the ancient town of Ilesa and its environ in Osun State were at low ebb as officials of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) refused to restore electricity to the affected communities for over two months. Investigation conducted revealed that the IBEDC refused to restore electicity to the affected communities following protest staged by some aggrieved youths in the area over some saddy dealings and behavours of the electricity company. During the protest, the protesting youths torched some equipment and offices of the electricity company over which the comapny is now demanding a sum of N232million for repair of facilities allegedly torched by the protesting youths before electricity could be restored to the affceted communities. Some of the towns affected by the development include Ilesa, Esa-Oke, Ijebu-Jesa, Iwoye Ijesa and many other adjoining towns and villages. It was gathered that the youths took to the streets of Ilesa when police started effecting arrest of some people allegedly fingered to be perpetrator of the attack on IBEDC staff and offices. Since then, the entire Ilesa and environs have been thrown intp total darkness which also affected business and commercial activities of private individuals and several appeals have been futile. Before the current development, some staff of IBEDC were alleged to be engaging in some immoral activities in the affected towns by collecting money from members of the communities in Ijesaland without receipt and still went back some days later to disconnect their houses of electricity. These  immoral activities and behavours of some of the staff of IBEDC was said to be the cause of attack on the company’s offices and some of its staff. But the regional Communication Officer of IBEDC, Kikelomo Owoeye in a statement issued condemned the assault on the company’s staff and threatened that the whole communities would suffer for their action. The statement read: “when a community is hostile to our staff we will take a drastic step until the concerned community come to terms with the company.In the case of this incident, we urge the security agencies to bring the perpetrators of this dastardly act to book and ensure they are prosecuted accordingly so as to serve as a deterrent to those who want to trail the path of violence to express their grievances. “We will ensure that those communities will be shut down till the perpetrators are brought to book and the safety of our staff are guaranteed in Ilesa and its environs. However, some community leaders and state government have waded into the matter but up till the time of filling this report, respite is yet to come the way of the residents of the affected communities. Explaining why electricity has not been restored to the communities, the Head of the Ibadan Electric Distribution Company (IBEDC), John Donnachie in a press statement  said the officials of the company were humiliated and attacked by the protesters. “When a group of hoodlums armed with dangerous weapons like guns, machetes and other sharp objects from Bolorunduro and Olomilagbala communities under Isare Service Centre, swooped on the office infrastructure”, he said. “They shot sporadically into the air to create panic and chaos while their operations lasted. They forcefully gained entry into the cash office, carted away money from our cash collections and took away mobile phones of some of our staff members’, Donnachie stated. “The same group attacked our office at Oke-Omiru. The staff around scampered for safety, then the business hub manager, who tried to intervene was slapped several times before he was rescued by a youth leader. The hoodlums then proceeded to our Isokun service unit and wounded some of our staff, whilst some properties in the various offices were destroyed and monies carted away,” he said. The company however failed to talk on the root cause of the crisis including allegations such as collecting money for electricity that was never provided and refused to make available to the consumers, prepaid meters. It was gathered that the electricity company perpetrated the illegality under the guise of what they called “estimated billing’. It was further discovered that the electricity company is notorious of hoarding prepaid meters and refused to sell to customers at the approved prices, rather some fraudulent staffers secretly sell the meter to the highest bidders. The deliberate hoarding of the prepaid meters had been traced to grand plan of the staffers so that they could continue to do the estimating calculation to cheat the people out of their hard earned money, and enrich their own pockets. There were cases when the company asked the customers to buy transformers, poles, cables among others, and even after these purchase, the electricity provider would still charge such community with installation and sundry expenses. It is also on record that, such installations were left unattended to, many times resulting in some of the material bought being stolen. It was further gathered that the electricity company is demanding for a sum of N232m as equivalent of materials allegedly destroyed by the protesters before electricity could be restored to the areas. The 232m demands came up despite intervention of some Ijesa prominent elders and leaders such as Asiwaju Yinka Fasuyi, Hon. Lawrence Ayeni, Hon. Timothy Owoeye, Majority leaders, Osun State House of Assembly, among others who conducted facility assessment on Friday 29th March 2019 to determine the extent of damage done on the comapny’s equipment. The company was said to have submitted its demands to the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) headquarters in Abuja and Osun state government for action.