Asaba – The Court of Appeal sitting in Benin City, Edo State, on Tuesday struck out Chief Great Ogboru’s appeal against an Asaba Federal High Court judgment of March 18 that struck out his application for joinder. The court described the appeal as “mere academic exercise.” Ogboru had earlier applied to be joined in a suit before the Asaba Federal High Court which nullified the list of candidates on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the various elective positions in Delta State. Specifically, the said list had emanated from the Prophet Jones Erue-led exco of the party in the state. It included the names of Chief Ogboru and Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. The trial judge, Justice Toyin Adegoke, had refused to grant Ogboru’s application for joinder in the said suit in the Asaba lower court, stating the application was statute-barred. The court, having sacked the Prophet Erue-led state executive of the party, nullified the said list that had Ogboru and Omo-Agage as the party’s governorship and Delta Central Senatorial candidates, respectively. While refusing to grant Ogboru’s application to be joined as an interested party, the lower court held that the application was a move by Ogboru to arrest the judgment after sleeping over his right. But not satisfied with the Justice Adegoke’s March 18 ruling, Ogboru headed to the Court of Appeal. However, Justice Ekpeme Nawosu of the Appeal Court in Benin City, while delivering the lead judgment struck out Ogboru’s appeal in respect to joinder. “The appeal has been overtaken by events, and has become a mere academic exercise. The 180 days set out for the trial court to hear the case has expired,” the appellate court held. It added that even if the appeal succeeded, there is no way the case can go back to the trial court for fresh hearing. According to him, “This appeal is being time-bound, filed out of time and a mere academic exercise. Therefore it is struck out.” Meanwhile three other courts had ruled on the nullification of Ogboru and Omo-Agege’s candidacy. The Asaba Federal High Court in its ruling on March 18 delivered by Justice Adegoke, annulled the list of candidates that included Ogboru and Omo-Agege. Justice Nnamdi Dimgba also of the Federal High Court in Asaba on April 4 ruled concurrently on the annulment.