Lagos – Scores of  South West beneficiaries of Rotary Club of Lagos Island and Geeta Ashram Vision 2029 Free Cataract Surgery Mission have poured encomiums on the two bodies for restoring their eyesight. They said the gestures of the two organization s showed their commitment to the plights of Nigerians whose eyesight are damaged but challenged to restore sane due to astronomical cost of doing so. Speaking at the camp in Lagos,one of the beneficiaries,Jade Lemoha,said he had been battling with his eyesight for over 10years and was excited that he was cured through the free eye surgery of the organizations. Commending Rotary Club Lagos Island and Geeta Ashram for their unparalleled humanitarian job,another beneficiary, Olabisi Taofeek,who suffered from Glaucoma for decade,said the story of the turning point of his life is incomplete without the two bodies. He confirmed that he didn’t spend any money  to get  his eyesight restored through the gestures of the two orgain Alhaji Rafiu Olubode Oke,also said he had battled with his eyes problem for several years and spent fortune to  cure but the efforts didn’t yield any positive development on his sight. He said he has now regain his sight following the free cataract surgery he got from the Rotary Club of Lagos Island and Geeta Ashram. He said the two bodies deserve commendable for the lofty efforts in restoring lost sight of Nigerians,while admonishing the  federal government to support their efforts in deepening the fre cataract surgery in the country. Speaking,Dr Atimah Major,the Opthalmologist, who operated the eyes of the beneficiaries commended the two organizations for giving more Nigerians hope of restoring their eyesight free of charge. He advised the beneficiaries to take adequate precautions on the eyes and use theirs drug with a view to allowing it heal up. In his remarks,President of Rotary Club of Lagos Island,Rotarian R.K.Gulati,expressed his gratitude and happiness on the success of the eye camp and affirmed the club’s commitment in serving the poor,disadvantaged and needy. He thanked Geeta Ashram for the initiative for the opportunity to associate with them.He also shared plans of providing year round Free Eye Care,in association with Indo Eye Care Foundation and Rotary Club of Palm Groove Estate at their Eye hospital which will start soon Rotarian Many Lalwani,Trustee Geeta Ashram and Chaurman, Vision 2029 mission,stated that serving poor selflessly is service to God.He stated how Geeta Ashram started the program 20years ago,and now with partnership with Rotary Club of Lagos Island,they are able to reach many more needy.