Abuja – The battle for the soul of the House of Representatives of the 9th National Assembly shifted to the Presidential Villa on Tuesday as President Muhammadu Buhari hosted all elected All Progressives Congress Reps members to a dinner. At the dinner which was apparently organised to rally support for the current Majority Leader of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, to emerge as speaker, other contenders for the position such as Nkiru Onyejiocha and Abdulrazak Namdas were conspicuously absent. This is coming as the APC has also zoned the Deputy Speakership position to the North Central. Adams Oshiomhole, Chairman of APC, however, seized the forum to fete the honourable members, saying they stand a chance of becoming committee chairmen if they toe the line of the party. Taking a swipe at the 8th National Assembly, the APC chairman said they frustrated genuine efforts by the current administration to create impact on the lives of Nigerians. According to him, the mere fact that Nigerians elected them overwhelmingly signified that they are tested and trusted to deliver on their mandates. He described the present leadership of the National Assembly as hostile, saying they created tension in the system, delayed budget needlessly, and created all obstacles to frustrate the government. “If you are elected, it means you are tested and trusted. “The NWC had a meeting with Reps-elect three weeks ago and it was very revealing, their interventions are a clear confirmation that Nigerians did not make mistake by electing them. “Their deep knowledge of the constitution would confuse many that they were not first timers but seasoned lawmakers. They all on their own speaker after speaker, across the zones, pledged to work together for PMB to leave landmark foundation for a new Nigeria. “I am confident that this time around, they are very hungry Nigerians ready to deliver on the mandates at the campaigns. “In life mistakes are permitted but it becomes a problem if the mistake is repeated twice. We are determined not to repeat the mistakes of 2015 in 2019, we have learnt our lesson. “Out of 223 APC elected members, about 67 were re-elected, the rest are new members. “In other climes, you don’t go into coalition when you are in the majority, you do so when you don’t have the numbers. We have the numbers, out of 306, Nigerians elected 223 APC members because they don’t want Mr. President to face the trauma of 2015. “Most of those who decamped were rejected and even those who led it were uprooted. We cannot as a party which has a comfortable majority entrust critical committees in the hands of the PDP or the opposition. “If Nigerians wanted them, they could have voted them. In the days of PDP, every committee were chaired by PDP members”. He described the outgoing Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and Speaker Yakubu Dogara as selfish and greedy, saying the party would not need to do business with the devil to survive in the ninth Assembly. “In African family, we sit down in a closed door to address issues, the good news is that there is a role for everyone. “Neither Mr. President nor the party expects the National Assembly to be rubber stamp, we don’t have rubbers…But we will not fight in Wuse market. “Both the re-elected and new members are entitled to heading committees. “We have asked our people not to share what belongs to us with other party members. “I don’t have apologies against forces of retrogression”.