Lagos – As the executive governor of Zamfara state, Governor Abdulaziz Yari is meant to serve as the Chief Security Officer of the state. However, developments in the state in the last couple of years show that the governor is no longer in charge of the security affairs of the state as he is completely overwhelmed by recurring killings in the state. Last year, Yari, who is the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) publicly, admitted that he had dropped his responsibility as Chief Security Officer of the state as he had no control over security machinery in the state. According to him, his decision stemmed from the seeming helplessness of the state government and the people over recurring killings in the state and series of attacks by bandits which claimed several lives and left many others injured with properties destroyed in some communities in the state. While lamenting the fact that he has no control over the security apparatus in the state, he deplored the prevailing situation where, as the chief security officer of the state, he could not take decisions on strategies for protecting the state and its people, and have it implemented. “We have been facing serious security challenges over the years, but in spite of being governor and Chief Security Officer of the state, I cannot direct security officers on what to do nor sanction them when they err. As Chief Security Officer, the nomenclature is just a name,” he said. Having failed in this regard and publicly admitted it, many Nigerians thought Yari will resign his position, but he vehemently clung to it while appealing to the residents of the state to be patient and embark on special prayers over the challenges facing the state. Earlier this year, Yari was again in the news, this time saying he is ready to relinquish his position as the Chief Security Officer of the state. Lamenting the mindless killings of his people, he said is ready for a state of emergency to ensure the safety of the residents and their property. Speaking to State House correspondents after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Aso Villa in Abuja, the governor said I am also in support of the declaration of state of emergency if it will save the lives of people of the state. If the state of emergency will solve the problem, Yari is ready”. “We are talking about the lives of our people and this needs the coming together of all, so that the crisis can end. If the provisions of my office had allowed me to carry arms against the bandits, I would have done so. But, if I am not around, there are capable hands that collaborate with the security team in the fight against the bandits. The security men are doing their best”. “But, it is sad to know that some of the people involved in the kidnappings are close relatives or associates of the victims, which is part of the reasons the problem is persisting. We must all come together and expose anyone or group that is part of these hoodlums, and we should also pray for Allah’s intervention,” Yari said. Kabiru Marafa, senator representing Zamfara Central, had, few weeks ago accused Yari of covering up recurring killings in the state. Describing the governor as incompetent, he also canvassed for the declaration of emergency rule in the state. Marafa who made the allegations during on the floor of the senate during plenary said  ““I rise today again with a very  heavy heart to report to this senate and indeed the people of Nigeria of another unfortunate incident of killings in Zamfara State as reported by the BBC yesterday. “Such incident happens almost every day in Zamfara; what is more worrisome about it is the fact that the local authorities don’t want anybody to say it. They don’t report it. The local radio doesn’t report it. The local newspaper doesn’t report anything. “When the last incident happened, I stood here to call for a state of emergency in Zamfara State which I’m sure many people were not happy with, but I think, as we move on, we need to revisit the therapy of former President Obasanjo because if these children were our own children, their own children, I’m sure the behaviour is going to be very different. “I hope it will be the last one, but if for any reason, another thing happens of this nature, I want to call on my colleagues to look more seriously into this problem with the view to meeting it with proper sanctions so that these unwanted sanctions are stopped,” he said. “Women are being snatched from their husbands. Just two weeks ago, a bride was snatched from her husband and from a marriage that was just two weeks old. She was raped and hospitalised. “But as much as the Federal Government is capable of giving directives, it is impossible to do the needful unless the state government also helps…Nobody will know what is happening,” he said. Unable to bear the pains of any longer, indigenes of Zamfara State who are resident in Abuja, trooped out last weekend in protest, calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently intervene and stop the killings and kidnappings currently going on in the state. Kadaria Ahmed, a journalist, who participated in the protest, urged the President to direct security personnel to rise to the situation. Speaking with journalists, Kadaria Ahmed, media personality and one of the conveners of the protest, blamed the governor for not showing enough concern about killings in the state, saying he only cared about the people of Zamfara when it comes to politics. “Our people are being killed like flies and it does not seem to matter to anybody, so that is why we are here and that is why we are marching” “As far as I am concerned, that governor is the most useless in the history of Nigeria. This is a governor whose reaction to the killings in his state was to resign as chief security officer. He went on the record to say that he cannot be chief security officer. I don’t know what he is still doing in office. “How can you govern a state for eight years from Abuja? What sort of leadership is that? We thank God he is on his way out. Under him, Zamfara has deteriorated. I grew up in Zamfara, the Zamfara I grew up was peaceful, we had textile, we had sweet factories”. “We are asking for Muhammadu Buhari, the president of Nigeria, to show the people of Zamfara the same regard they have shown for him,” she said. “For two elections, they have come out now in large numbers to vote for him, can he for goodness sake show that he cares about them. Can he provide security so that we can sleep in our homes?” she asked. Amir Salisu, one of the protesters, also canvassed for the decalrattion of emergency rule in the state, saying the situation has gone from bad to worse under Yari. “It is sad that that governor has not been able to do anything about the security crisis in Zamfara. For eight years we have seen the security situation of the state get worse under him. It is not late for a state of emergency to be declared in the state. Yari has failed woefully. Buhari should act now.”