ABUJA – The  President of the Association of Nigerian Physicians in America (ANPA) Dr Charmaine Emelife on Monday has hinted of plans by the association to provide surgical operations to meet the demands of about 120 to 150 residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Surgical cases within five to six days. Saying, in 2018, the association was able to do 120 surgical cases in five days. To this end, Emelife disclosed that the association had mobilised over 70 healthcare providers from the United States for the outreach programme in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to meet the medical needs of the less privileged. She noted that the association has commenced free medical and surgical services in AMAC and Bwari area council of the FCT, adding that the goal was to ensure that a minimum of 300 cases would be treated from the three centres every day including a minimum of 20 surgical cases. The services are expected to be provided at Tungan Gwazo and Jiwa communities in Abuja Municipal Area Council while the surgical services will be provided at the General Hospital Kubwa in Bwari Area Council. She added that besides doctors, the team that comprised of Nurses, Pharmacists, and Laboratory Scientists would collectively provide world-class health care services to the people. Emelife said the association was made up of medical professionals from Nigeria and other medical experts married to Nigerians added, “All of us are always worried about the health care situation in this country. Every year we come as ANPA’s sponsored mission to provide year-round care in Nigeria,’’ she said. Dr. Chukwuocha Uzoma, one of the Doctors who spoke to our correspondent in Die Dei said the healthcare system in Nigeria could be better as the country continue to crawl but not static. He said what they have seen on the ground is the issue of lack of awareness. According to him, “most of the FCT residents don’t know how to access healthcare before they get sick. He said, “A man came with very high blood pressure and did not know he was hypertensive and coming with sugar lever of 400 upward and they don’t know they are diabetic. The main thing is to give them education through the PHC churches and mosques. Also speaking, Dr Nina  Meza-Nwaba explained that the outreach programme was a collaboration to meet the needs of the underserved. Most time these patients are sick and they don’t have the money to get medications that are needed. She, however, said it will be good if everybody can put in their part to sustain the programme.