Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Lent is a period of prayer, fasting and almsgiving. It is during this period that Christians, especially orthodox Christians, try to practice their Christian virtues in fullness. One of the ways most Christians have chosen to observe the Lenten season is through fasting and almsgiving. What is the essence of fasting? Why must we fast? Who benefits from our fasting? And what kind of fasting is acceptable unto God. Fasting is not starvation. We are not just fasting for the sake of fasting. In the gospel of Matthew 6:16-18 our Lord Jesus Christ told his followers, “ Whenever you fast, do not look dismal, like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces so as to show others that they are fasting. Truly I tell you, they have received their reward. 17 But when you fast, put oil on your head and wash your face, 18 so that your fasting may be seen not by others but by your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will reward you.” Fasting is not a show of face but a show of love. In the book of Isaiah 58:6-9 the Lord God  describe the kind of fasting He wants. “Is not this the fast that I choose: to loose the bonds of injustice, to undo the thongs of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke? 7 Is it not to share your bread with the hungry, and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover them, and not to hide yourself from your own kin?” Almsgiving is the essence of fasting. Fasting without almsgiving is starvation! One of the major challenges facing our country is the problem of insecurity. The war between farmers and herdsmen has raised an ugly situation. Most people are no longer living in their ancestral homes. Out of fear, they are now settling in IDP camps. Unfortunately, most of these IDP camps have no water, no toilets and above all there is shortage of food.  People are starving to death. The Last time I visited the IDP camp I managed to interview his Lordship Most Rev. Dr. Wilfred Chikpa Anagbe, C. M. F. the Catholic Bishop of Macurdi who told me that the people in the camp are suffering terribly. Unfortunately the government is gradually withdrawing their support for the IDP. Their focus, I suppose, was on the election. The Bishop, I was told, is doing everything humanly possible to support those at the IDP camps. But as you know a tree cannot make a forest. I want to use this medium to appeal to well meaning Nigerians, NGOs to partner with the Bishop of Macurdi in his effort to provide basic needs to the IDPs. As I commend the effort of His Lordship, the Catholic Bishop of Macurdi and all the non-governmental organisations who are rendering help to the Internally Displaced Persons and as the period of Lent is gradually coming to an end, I want to also use this medium to appeal to all Christians who have observed the Lenten fast, to kindly send their Lenten and fasting proceeds to the orphans and Internally Displaced Persons. As you do so, God will richly bless you. “Your light shall break forth like the dawn, and your healing shall spring up quickly; your vindicator shall go before you, the glory of the LORD shall be your rear guard. 9 Then you shall call, and the LORD will answer; you shall cry for help, and he will say, Here I am (Isaiah 58:8-9). And it shall be well with you, in Jesus name – Amen!