South Africa’s Department of Labour on Wednesday said it had put on hold the signing of an employment policy designed by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). South Africa opts for developing its national employment policy before ratifying the ILO’s Employment Policy Convention 122, the department said. The department said the decision was based on an agreement among social partners of the South African National Economic Development and Labour Council (NEDLAC). The council is in favour of developing the country’s national labour policy first, department spokesperson, Teboho Thejane, said.
The NEDLAC is the vehicle by which the government, labour, business and community organisations cooperate through problem-solving and negotiation on economic, labour and development issues facing the country.
The issues include the high unemployment which currently stands at more than 27 per cent. Convention 122 requires national employment policy to be positioned as a major goal within the national agenda. It calls upon ratifying member states to promote and engage in genuine tripartite consultations among the government, labour and business on employment policies. Upon ratification, South Africa would be called upon to report regularly on the effect given to its provisions and be required to provide detailed statistical information, disaggregated by age and sex, on the labour market and on employment trends in the country. South Africa has conducted a gap analysis which was aimed at assessing the country to evaluate the efforts needed in order to be in compliance with the IOL convention. The gap analysis found that South Africa’s current legislation such as Employment Services Act of 2014, and policy frameworks such as the New Growth Path of 2011. This also includes the National Development Plan of 2012 consistent with the provision of Convention 122, said Thejane. The convention has been signed by 113 countries, 24 of which are in Africa.
ILO’s employment instrument specialist Anna Torriente said Convention 122 is flexible in that it allows the country to analyse its own situation, identify gaps and implement its own labour market policy measures to deal with employment.