Lagos – The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bankers Committee, an umbrella body of commercial banks in the country, yesterday said they have set aside N200 billion facility to support and standardise agricultural produce exportation. Mr. Kennedy Uzoka, Managing Director, United Bank for Africa (UBA), said since the Bakers’ Committee retreat in December, the committee has been looking for way of assisting Nigerian farmers in the area of exporting their farm produce. The products that will be targeted according to the committee, includes, Oil Palm, Cocoa, Cashew Nuts, Sesame seeds and Shea Butter. The committee expects the exports of these products which is in abundant across the country to boost our foreign exchange earnings. The banks said at the end of the meeting in Lagos that they have come up with an immediate, medium and long term plans to address the issues. The facility, according to the banks, will be in a single digit with ten year period. “Towards the end of last year, the banking community under the supervision of the Central Bank of Nigeria had our retreat at the theme of that retreat was how we can transform our economy through export.   We set up a sub-committee to look into issues and the members of that sub-committee consist of people who have operated in geographies in our continent where exports have done very well. “We interrogated this, and we worked with different government agencies across the African continent and also we came back home to check what we have and we found out that indeed we have a lot of policies but the challenge has been execution.” “And we narrowed this down to seven broad areas and typically people will say we don’t have money, which is true, finance is one of the major challenges but we also saw logistic as a challenge and also policies. We believe that a lot of polices around exportation need to be changed if we want to really make and headway”, Uzoka said. In his contribution, Alhaji Ahmed Abdulahi, Director, Banking Supervision, Central Bank of Nigeria, said the first three months in the year have been good for the country despite being period for general election as the country recorded an inflow of $6 billion. He said this must be attributed to the positive sentiment around the economy in the period despite headwinds recorded in major economies of the world. “The first three months in the year have been very good to us as a country. $6 billion came into the economy between January and March this year and this was because of our insistence to conform to the import substitution programmes, the Anchor Borrowers Scheme and other new initiatives of the bankers committee”, he said. The committee also disclosed their plan to also pay further attention to the creative industry. They said it will be a single digit facility with ten years period. Pointing out that the collateral will be flexible base on their value chains. Herbert Wigwe, Managing Director, Access Bank, said the committee noted that emphasis will be on practitioners that are in the business full time. The areas are movie, music, fashion and information technology. He added that the committee after a lot of research identified the creative and IT sector as a critical sector to support social and inclusive growth in Nigeria, saying they have basically found out that the sector would generate a significant amount of employment given how Nigerians involved in the creative sector have done well in music and others.