Yenagoa – The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State on Wednesday asked Governor Seriake Dickson to stop being obsessed with the party and its leaders and members. The APC in a statement in Yenagoa signed by the state publicity secretary, Doifie Buokoribo, stated that the days of Dickson and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the office were numbered. Buokoribo was reacting to media reports which indicated that the Bayelsa PDP made the APC the central issue for deliberation at the PDP’s expanded State Executive Committee meeting presided over by the governor on Monday in Yenagoa. He took exception to the fact that Dickson and his party had started engaging in dishing out falsehood against the APC no sooner had the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) fixed November 2 for the state governorship election. Buokoribo cautioned Dickson to spot branding the party as “killer, the terrorist organisation”, saying such words were “unbefitting of a high-ranking officer of the state.” He said, “Governor Dickson is free to continue to live in denial. But we know that his days and that of his party in our state are numbered. For almost eight years, Dickson subjected the people of Bayelsa State to a regime of fear, war and terror. “He spread hunger, pain and poverty in the land.  The Bayelsa State Government House is now a place where criminals, cultists and other lawless elements are harboured. “He appointed known criminals, cultists and militants as council chairmen. He denied civil servants their legitimate wages and allowances. He even made the state incommodious for business by refusing to fix electricity, water and other basics. “The once beautiful land of Yenagoa became known as the garbage capital of the world under his watch. Our people are waiting with their PVCs for Dickson and his anointed candidate on Election Day.” The APC also condemned the governor and his administration for celebrating the lifting of embargo on promotion and payment of promotion benefits in the civil service, stressing that it was borne out of his anxiety to hide his insensitivity. “He has reached the end of the road, and no amount of petty mudslinging or denial of reality will change the people’s stand against him and his party,” Buokoribo added.