Hon Biodun Salami, Assistant Publicity Secretary of Lagos State, All Progressives Congress (APC) in an interview with JOY ANIGBOGU argued that the leadership of the party has right to interfere in the emergence of NASS principal officers, among other issues. Excerpts: APC performed excellently well in the last gubernatorial and State Assembly elections. Do we ascribe that to the defection of heavyweights like Moshood Salvador, former chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to your party? Whatever reason that can be adduced may be part of it. We planned and strategised and one of the strategies was to bring in others to deplete the opposition. The party though was the incumbent, worked as if it was the opposition to achieve victory. The party did not neglect anybody but went all out to Lagosians to solicit for their votes. The opposition was not visible. The gubernatorial candidate and his deputy met with market people, artisans and elites to achieve that result, and that was the best strategy to win an election. Our victory was not a surprise to us. Our target was less than what we got. We had planned to clear about three or four million votes in Lagos. We also achieved because we were able to equate that with what we have been doing in the State. Lagosians are highly educated, civilised and highly exposed. We gave them reason to vote for us based on our pedigree. They are not tired of us because we have continued to improve every day. What you see on Airport road is being done by Lagos State and not federal government. The road is almost completed. If you go to Oshodi, you will see our handwork. We took the bull by the horn in Lagos State, telling the people that this is our State. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was in leadership at the federal level for 16 years with nothing to show for it. The people are not fools. The people feel very comfortable with APC and that is why they have always supported us. We don’t sympathize with Lagosians, rather we empathise with them. A party that lost its State chairman, few months to an election was not ready to win that election. We cashed in all those weaknesses to our advantage. The chairman, remember did not come to the party alone, he joined the party with key members of the party. What is common in this clime is that when a new leadership takes over government, there is tendency for him or her to abandon projects started by the previous administration, even when they are from the same party. Can your party assure Lagosians that the administration of Sanwo-Olu will not abandon projects started by Ambode? APC as a party has a working plan, a blueprint. Remember also that we are in the same party. Why will the new administrator want to abandon the project? At the federal level, most of the jobs that were abandoned by PDP, we completed them. The projects are for the people. PDP’s government did not complete any project in the last 16 years. It is not that they don’t have good programmes, but they will somehow abandon them. They would keep reviewing contracts every day. The beauty of our party is that once we give out any contract, we would tell the contractor, the duration and we would pass same to Lagosians. They would work towards that and we would release funds accordingly. When you fail to plan, you plan to fail. Majority of the jobs Ambode is doing, he would complete them, 80 to 90 percent before he leaves office. He wants to complete them so he can take the glory and put his name in gold. The incoming governor is another workaholic. If I were to be any of them, I would complete it and take the glory. I don’t see any reason why anyone would abandon a project, except it is a project that does not add value to the people. Nobody would abandon any project especially when he is from our party. It is not in our style to abandon projects.