UMUAHIA – Before the conduct of the 2019 general elections, the expectations of the electorates in Abia State was for the best candidate triumph and that the fortunes of the state are made better than it had been since 2015. No doubt, the fortunes of the state rather than improve, had rather nosedived with many political analysts ascribing the situation to the prevalent political hiccups ravaging across the states of the federation. The issues that had confronted the state going into the general elections were on many fronts ranging from payment of salary arrears, provision of infrastructures, security, uplifting the standard of education and the living conditions of the people as well as fulfilling other electoral promises made to the people prior to the 2015 general elections. The truth is that no matter how hard it has tried, the administration of Governor Okezie Victor Ikpeazu had done everything within its wits end to grapple with these hydra-headed monsters, especially with an eye to his re-election bid, to wrestle it down and move on to other areas, but some of them have simply refused to cave in. The bail out funds were, to the best of intentions, judiciously applied, but yet the issues of salary arrears refused to give way, and would have grossly affected his fortunes in the 2019 governorship poll, but for the understanding of the organized labour that the governor played his part in ensuring that the funds were sufficient. As he traversed the length and breadth of the 17 Local Government Areas in the state to canvass for their support in re-election, he was not unmindful of the challenges the issue of salary arrears would pose as well as improving on the living conditions of the populace, who had, just few years back, enjoyed so much patronage from the government in the areas of empowerment among others. But, he did make efforts to send his message across to the electorates and in return, the electorates approved his submissions and gave him another chance. However, going by the way the votes was cast across the senatorial districts, it is pertinent to point out that it was not a coasting home for the ruling political party, and as such should give the movers of the party some food for thought. The truth again, as far as Abia State is concerned, is that it would be really very difficult to dislodge the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, from the state because aside from having ruled the area since the enthronement of democracy in 1999, with a slight departure in 2007, the movers and shakers in the state still largely maintained their hold on the happenings in their areas, hence the party still holds out majority. Hence, in the run down to the 2019 general election, the party still remained the one to beat and all the contending juggernauts knew it was an uphill task. However owing to the sharp departure on happenings within the senatorial districts, other political parties made serious incursions especially in the northern part of the state and this would form the bulk of what would feature in the political hemisphere going into the 2023 general polls. These seeming rupture in the firm hold of the ruling party is been seen as a warning signal as to what is to come as the second term administration of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu gradually rolls in. But while the populace awaits May 29 for the commencement of his second term, the state, like many other states in Nigeria, are grappling with issues of salary and emolument which has made the faces of the workers in the state and local government areas to be forlorn. Whereas the blame has been laid squarely on the table of the federal government by some pundits, others have blamed the government and its promoters, for allowing such doldrums to pervade especially during a festive season of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ, one of the major celebrations of the Christian faithful across the length and breadth of the country. Against these background therefore, the joy of the re-election of the governor is gradually being eroded by the lack of salary for the workforce, a situation that further goes to exacerbate the prevailing economic situation in the area. Analysts posit that the economy of the state has nosedived and that it would take a little more than craftsmanship to shore it up. The governor himself confirmed the fears of a bleak economy when he summarily dismissed the legion of Special Advisers SAs, Senior Special Assistants SSAs, and Executive Assistants EAs among others. The situation would further be made worse by the impending litigations arising from the just concluded governorship election, as majority of the candidates of opposition political parties have already horned their swords and heading to the Election Petition tribunal to exercise their rights to be heard and these could go all the way to the Supreme Court. With all these playing out, it would appear that the state is in for some belt tightening and re-ordering of priorities. Be this as it may, the position of the government prior to the poll especially with the infrastructural development of the commercial nerve centre of the state, Aba has brought joy to the hearts of the people, to the extent that the residents of the area that had never had anything good to say of any sitting administration had made a volt farce, singing the praise of the governor and his performances in the area and the Ariaria International Market. The reason for the change of position by the traders and residents could be traced to the fact that some of the protracted issues bedeviling the commercial city had largely been curtailed by the present administration. The decision of the regime in containing flooding through building a tunnel from the Ifeobara area straight into the Aba River had brought relief to the people and made the always flooded streets of the city much better. Also commercial activities in and outside the various markets have largely increased due to the tarring of the major roads leading into these markets, thereby causing an increase in the business dealings in the area. Outside the commercial city, where Governor Ikpeazu swore he would bring about a change, notable areas such as the Aba Road in Umuahia, those in Ohafia, Arochukwu, Umunneochi and Ikwuano has somehow changed the topography of these areas and reduced the hardship suffered by commercial motorists before now. Majority of them are ongoing and would require his presence to bring them to fruition. This informed the huge support he got during the election. However, when these achievements is juxtaposed with the current meltdown, it could snowball into nonchalant on the part of the workers, and could be made worse by the imminent signing of the N30, 000 monthly Minimum Wage by Mr. President. To this end, the governor would need to bring in additional egg heads into his administration to help midwife a programme that would suck these pressures and give him the leeway to deliver on the electioneering promises he made to the electorates, first in 2015 and then in 2019. With the benefit of hindsight, analysts say, he has shown that he knows what road to take to come out of the woods, but when and how quickly he takes the road and begin to exude the same confidence that endeared him to the people is a matter of conjecture. The earlier Abia people begin to hear from him, the better they will begin to appreciate the enormity of the challenges and be able to ride with him to find the right answers.