Prof John Ebhomien, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain and public affairs analyst, is former Consultant to the United Nations Office of Project Services. The former World Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF) economist and financial management expert spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on Nigeria’s rising debt profile and proffered a second term agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari, among other issues. Excerpt: The Debt Management Office (DMO) recently put Nigeria’s total debt at N24.36 trillion. What does this tell of the nation? Truly speaking, as an economist, I strongly believe that Nigeria as people, should look inwards in sourcing for funds. The current debt as it stands now does not speak well of us as a nation. The Federal Government, the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Federal Ministry of Finance should put in place appropriate mechanisms to ensure prudent management of funds at the federal, state and local government levels. There must be probity and accountability at all levels. The government must try to block all leakages at all levels in the system. Most of these foreign debts went into private hands through inflation of contracts, over invoicing even at the Presidency, state governments and governors, as well as local government chiefs and politicians. What we witness now is an ice in the system. The anti-graft agencies should put their acts together to do the needful in the fight against corruption. The way corruption is being fought now is a tip of the iceberg. Corruption has become so hydra-headed that it has refused to go away. President Muhammadu Buhari should re-jig the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Crimes Commission (ICPC) and other anti-graft agencies. They should be able to bite without looking back. The Anti-Fraud Unit of the Nigerian Police Force should wake up from slumber. What risks does the nation stand with the increase its foreign debts? The monumental foreign debt shows that Nigeria will be looked upon by the international business community and investors as a country that is not good for investment. You cannot eat more than you have. During former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s regime, when Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was Minister of Finance, Nigeria went to IMF to beg for debt forgiveness. We should know how to manage our funds instead of going cap in hand begging. Most government officials are the drain pipes where most of the funds went. The DMO, Ministry of Finance, Accountant General Office must explain how those debts came up and sanction those who are culpable. The EFCC should come up with clear-cut strategy on how to fish out those responsible for this dastardly act of impunity. The time has come to stop buck-passing. They should fish out those responsible for these huge debts. That is how huge investors will see Nigeria as a responsible nation to do business with.  Many Nigerians have between $2 trillion and $3 trillion in their accounts. Where do we go from here? President Muhammadu Buhari was recently elected for a second term. What agenda would you proffer for him in the next four years? The second coming of President Buhari should be seen by all Nigerians as a welcome development. First, he should assemble highly skilled technocrats and professionals as members of his cabinet. This is not the time for political party patronage. We have highly skilled men and women who are authorities in their fields, who can turn things around for this country. Buhari should ensure that key ministries are handles by experts in that area. The Finance Ministry should be handled by those versatile in finance. Ministry of Planning must be handled by economist; Works and Housing should be handled by an architect of an engineer in related areas. This time, it should be round peg in a round hole or square peg in a square hole. This is the time to sit down and do something. President Buhari should re-jig the Presidency and look for Special Advisers in areas of finance, information management among others. He should look for men and women who will tell him how to manage the country and not Yes men who cannot tell him the truth. He should shun sycophants. The Federal Government should re-jig the CBN. How would you assess the performance of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the elections it has conducted so far? Generally speaking, INEC has not performed to the expectations of Nigerians. There are several shortcomings here and there with impunity. Its performance in the recent elections was a dismal failure. Look at Ekiti, Osun, Rivers, Bayelsa, Imo, Bauchi, Sokoto, Adamawa, etc. What has INEC to say about these? These are indications that something went wrong somewhere. The idea of inconclusive election does not speak well of us as a country. The INEC chairman and management must go back to the drawing board and do something right. Nigeria should not be relying on the courts to determine our leaders. President Buhari should look in the direction of INEC and the Electoral Act. He should cooperate with the National Assembly to sign the electoral Act. Nigeria should be seen as a leading light in election management in Arica by the developing and developed world. Would you say that with the challenges of void ballot papers and other logistics problems, that the nation’s political parties should not be pruned to about five? The last general elections were characterised by ballot box snatching and rigging. We are all eye witnesses to these evil actions. INEC and the Federal Government should put in place appropriate mechanisms to prune the parties. Most of the parties did not perform well. The government should save the nation the embarrassment by reducing the parties. Most of the parties did not have basic ideologies. They could not fly during the elections. To save our funds and manage our resources, we should reduce the parties to between five and seven. These are some of the drain pipes through which funds are siphoned. How do see the rising cases of insecurity in the nation? What do you think the Federal Government should do to check it? The rising wave of insecurity can best be described as rascality taken too far by the herdsmen, cattle rustlers, bandits, kidnappers and the Boko Haram. These groups of people are not faceless. They are live among the people. It has been my view that the government should negotiate with the Boko Haram to release the remaining Chibok girl and all others in captivity. It appears there is laxity on the part of government. President Buhari administration should wield the big stick against the herdsmen, cattle rustlers and marauders in Benue, Plateau, Taraba, Adamawa, Sokoto, Bauchi. Policemen and the military should be held accountable for insecurity in the country. The Buhari government should ensure that he changes the Service Chiefs. He should bring in men and women that will work with military precision to end these carnage and destruction in our land. Why should this carnage live with us for so long? All these incessant killings must stop. Buhari should read the Riot Act to the Service Chiefs, DSS, Defence Intelligence and Police Chiefs. The DSS should wake up and do their job of intelligence gathering.  These bandits, kidnappers and Boko Haram are not spirits. Politicians feed on the state of insecurity. They amass wealth for themselves and their families. That has led to the escalation of foreign debts. If Buhari can wield the big stick against the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) over his asset declaration, he should also go after those who caused these monumental debts and level of grievances in the land. There must be a paradigm shift in area of doing things, especially in area of finance management, anti-corruption war, and insecurity. Provision of security is the primary function of government. I hope and sincerely believe that Mr. President should do something fast and build institutions.  A situation where most industries are closing shops and factories does not speak well of us as a nation. How can investors come in when lives and properties are not secured? To what extent do you think the military should be involved in the nation’s elections? Truly speaking, the military should perform their statutory obligations to the country. They should not be allowed to perform in elections. You can see what happened in Ekiti during the PDP time. You can see what happened in Rivers in the last elections. Military should allow Police and Civil Defence do their job. Those who call on military to be involved in elections have ulterior motives. You can see the killings in Rivers and Bayelsa. The Police and Civil Defence must be well funded. I strongly believe that the current Acting Inspector General of Police will do something to ensure that the Police Force is re-jigged. He is a man of integrity and competence.