Abuja – The upper chamber of the National Assembly yesterday put modality in place to override President Muhammadu Buhari’s veto on the Budget Timeline Bill. The move to override the President followed the adoption of the report of a technical committee set up to study the bills rejected by the president. The upper chamber, which adopted the report, resolved to override Buhari’s veto on the bill. The bill seeks to amend the 1999 Constitution by making it mandatory for the president and governor of a state to lay the annual budget estimates before parliament three months to the end of a financial year. It also compels the parliament to pass the annual budget before the commencement of the next financial year. Tagged, SB. 733, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No. 28) Bill, the proposed legislation, which scaled first reading on Tuesday and passed second reading during Wednesday plenary, was sponsored by the deputy president of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu (PDP, Enugu). It would be recalled that President Buhari had, in 2018, declined assent to the constitution amendment bill on the grounds that Section 2 (b) and 3 (b) of the proposal ‘appear not to take full cognizance of the provisions of Section 58 (4) of the 1999 constitution’. The David Umaru-led technical committee, has, however, rejected the president’s submission, on the grounds that the bill was not in conflict with the 1999 Constitution, as claimed by the president. The purpose of the bill, the committee explained, was to ensure that Nigeria reverted to the January to December budget cycle. According to the report: “It should be understood that this Bill seeks to make it mandatory for Mr. President and Governor of a State to cause to be prepared and laid before parliament, estimates of the revenues and expenditure of the Federation for the next following financial year, not later than ninety (90) days to the end of a financial year. And for the parliament to pass the Appropriation Bill before the commencement of the next financial year. “The legislative intent behind this Bill is to ensure that we run a normal financial year. From the wordings of the provisions, there was no stipulation that Mr. President must assent to any Bill within a specified period. “Therefore, the provision of section 58(4), which Mr. President made reference to, does not apply in this regard. On the whole, we respectfully submit that the Bill is not in conflict with the provision of section 58(4) of the Constitution as implied by Mr. President.” “It is, therefore, our concerted view that the Senate should override Mr. President’s veto.” Section 58 (5) of the 1999 Constitution provides that two-thirds of both legislative chambers of the National Assembly (73 senators and 240 members of House of Representatives) are required to override the president’s veto.