In this report, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR, examine the multiplicity of shareholders associations in Nigeria: The importance of globalization in the nation’s economic sphere cannot be overemphasized. It encourages privatization, commercialization of enterprises. Nigeria is not alien to privatization of its key economic enterprizes. Besides, between 1989 and 2005,  hundreds  government-owned companies were privatized,while over billion shares were offered for sale to the public and  several  shareholders who probably lack know-how about shareholding.To boost  public participation in the ownership of business corporations, government  facilitated the establishment of a network of shareholder associations. At its inception, a government parastatal in charge of the privatization and commercialization program, the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), funded the associations from interest earned on deposit of shares pending allotment. The associations are  funded through a per-capita levy placed on quoted companies. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nigerian Stock Exchange determine the levy, based on the number of shareholders in each company. The fund is collected and administered by the Stock Exchange.Besides the government established shareholder associations, there are also independent shareholder associations. In the beginning The privatisation programme of the government brought in its wake the emergence of an era of shareholder activism. Before  this time, there was little known about shareholder power and their influence on the corporate existence of organisations. But as more companies that were hitherto under the control of government became privately owned, the new shareholders sought explanations to some of the activities and the decisions of the organisations. At the forefront  of the  crusade for investor awareness is Akintunde Asalu, president of Nigerian Shareholders Solidarity Association (NSSA). His activism in the capital market through the platform of the shareholders association opened up an era of shareholders activism. And since then, not less than 20 shareholders groups have emerged on the scene. In addition to NSSA, others are Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), the Zonal Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ZSAN), made up of seven zonal shareholders groups (Ibadan, Onitsha, Lagos, Abuja, Kaduna, Portharcourt, and Kano), Progressive Shareholder Association of Nigeria (PSAN), Renaissance Shareholders Association of Nigeria (RSAN), and the Professional Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN), Association for the Advancement of Rights Nigerian Sharehodlers (AARNS). Many others come in various names and groupings. Genesis Of Multiple Association Following the foot step  of  NISSA, other shareholder associations began to spring up. Some emerged as a function of location, others as a function of focus but, in the main, others emerged to partake in the economic cum commercial benefits that came the way of a ‘group’ with so much leverage and relevance. The proliferation of these associations and the absence of measures to regulate them became their very undoing. Soon, it emerged that these groups, like all power blocs, became  victims of their own success. The emergence of the private shareholder associations show that Nigerian investors are no longer solely interested in the economic value of their shares but also in the right that share ownership gives them to influence corporate strategy and management. In the last  two decades years, at least over 40  shareholder associations have been established. The increasing number of these associations has led to recent moves by the Securities and Exchange Commission  to regulate the associations. The  Drift While the evolving shareholder activists are a positive development, the corrupt collaboration of some of the shareholders associations and corporate executives must also be addressed by regulatory agencies and reputable corporate leaders. This is much needed particularly with the increasing cases of corporate scandals in multinational companies and joint ventures operating in Nigeria. Thus, shareholders may influence the direction a company takes via the use of shareholders resolution. There are allegation that many annual general meetings in Nigeria are fraught with corruption. They are arranged in such a way that once the leaders of the shareholder association are bribed in one way or the other, shareholders only go to the event to sing the praises of management for a robust account, instead of actually asking accountants to look more closely into the accounts and raising pertinent questions. Even more dangerous and worrisome is the hand-in-glove partnership between some particular individuals who posture as leaders and or representatives of certain shareholder associations and certain vested interests in the market. These individuals are too quick to lend themselves to manipulation by such interests which are known to be inimical to the  interests of the generality of investors. Shareholders And Their Colours Shareholder associations come in various guises and are driven by different actors and interests, and have different impacts on target firms.There are concerns that  most of these groups’ activities smack of hypocrisy, and greed,which made them handy and pliable tools in the hands of influential Nigerians whose sole aim is self enrichment and to cover up their tracks. Observers said a  corrupt collaboration between activist/bully shareholders and board/managers has subsequently evolved to silence genuine activism. There are allegations that executive members of many of the shareholder associations now maintain close and personal relationships with the executives of the firms they are meant to check. Besides, shareholders have taken up the role of praise singers, turning AGMs to rendezvous instead of being a serious business session. Annual general meetings have consequently turned out to be such a boring session as against making it the issues meet which it actually is. Unfortunately some of the chairmen of board of companies have been sold on the praise singing drama. At AGMs they would give audience to those who sing their praises even in the face of poor performance than those that would point out their failures. A former MD/CEO of Citizens Bank was  quoted to have said that the shareholders have simply turned themselves into AGM touts demanding and extorting money from companies. SEC To The Rescue Worried by this development, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) after due consultation came up with a code of conduct for the shareholders associations. The development is described as a major landmark towards entrenching good corporate governance in quoted companies in Nigeria as shareholders groups across the country adopted the code to guide the organisation and operations of shareholders associations. Highlights of the code include establishment and membership of shareholders associations, attendance to annual or extra-ordinary general meetings and membership of audit committees. On the establishment and membership of shareholders associations, the code provides that membership of a shareholders group must not be less than 50 shareholders of public companies and be duly registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), among others. The code also bars members and officers of shareholders associations from attending AGMs or EGMs of companies in which they are not shareholders except with a legitimate proxy.It limits the tenure of membership of audit committees to a one term of three years only subject to good performance while equally placing the burden of ensuring that members elected into audit committees have basic knowledge of accounting. The SEC code for shareholders is an attempt to address observed negative practices of shareholder associations in the capital market. The reform also include SEC’s new rules for quoted companies, SEC’s code of conduct guidelines for operators and their employees, SEC’s new approach to enforcement and the naming & shaming of violators, SEC’s plans to review the role of approved operators, brokers and dealers in the banking crises that ensued and what role (if any) must and can the SEC play, the resolution of the AMC bill and the impact on the market. Mixed Concerns The chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN), Mr. Boniface Okezie, said the development is worrisome because of the bad image it tends to create. Okezie likened the emergence of many shareholders associations as the high number of political parties that registered in the just concluded 2019 elections in the country. He said many of the associations are posing to represent the shareholders, while in fact, they have no mission. According to him, “Most of the said shareholders associations have no mission of what they are actually out to achieve. They think the shareholders’ platform is a place to make money. Their activism attempts cannot help the shareholders because they do not understand the principles and ethics of being a representative to the shareholders. “If you look closely at their activities, you will discover that they are not complying with Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) laws. They think all the association represents companies’ shareholders should be concern about is only getting dividends. PSAN Chairman said some of the associations are now like market women roaming in the market. He however blamed the situation on the market regulator. “This ugly problem was created by the regulator who granted them the chance to form these numerous associations which do not add value to the market or the shareholders. Frankly speaking, this trend is quite absurd and embarrassing. The problem started during the tenure of Arunma Oteh who want to use them to counter the genuine established associations which have been in existence long ago. She allowed it this because we have been very professional in our dealings with the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC); and she didn’t like it. Also commenting, a shareholder, Adeleke Adebayo told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that the incident of shareholders association proliferation is a hard nut that will be difficult to crack because we are under democracy and the constitution guarantees fundamental human rights which include that of freedom of associations. He said there is no way to stop the formation of the associations. “The situation is not easy to control because we are under democracy and the constitution allows for freedom to form or join an association. That is why we have over 100 political parties. That was why late Chief gani Fawehinmi took the Federal Government to court. The same thing applies to shareholders associations. “As as today, we have one-man association operating as a shareholders’ association. This is quite embarrassing. For any association to be recognised, ethics and principles must be followed. These associations pretend to be representing shareholders and their respective companies. But they need to be stopped’’. Adebayo maintained that the few shareholders association is enough for the country. According to him, “The recognised shareholders we know today are not more than four or five. SEC is responsible for the proliferation of the associations. Multiplicity of associations in the capital market is not a healthy development.’’ Sunny Nwosu,  the  National Coordinator, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria,said  Corporate Affairs Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission that have caused the multiplication of shareholder associations because they have not done what they are supposed to do in checking some of these groups. ‘’We are aware some of them do not even have secretaries; they are made of just an individual. But it is not the duty of Sunny Nwosu or ISAN to go and scrutinise other shareholder associations; it is a duty of CAC, which is a regulator to registration and incorporation. However, I do not believe that the country needs any quack shareholder association.The law is very clear; every shareholder association must have up to 50 followers. However, anybody can bring 50 names and say these are my followers. The question is, did CAC do a diligent follow-up exercise to know whether these shareholder associations are existing or not? Does SEC take the pains of visiting the offices of these shareholder associations? If there is a loophole in this country, so many people will take advantage of it. “What makes you a member of company is the issuance of its certificate to you as a shareholder or the Central Securities Clearing Systems’ report that shows you are a shareholder. If you don’t fall under these two categories, whether you are the biggest shareholder association, you cannot enter into an AGM.Unfortunately, SEC is encouraging this by inviting some of these associations to their functions. At the beginning, the associations were inviting SEC to say that they had been approved so they can go to AGMs, and they were embarrassing company secretaries. Some of them send text messages to company secretaries threatening them. I will never support such a thing because shareholder associations are there as non-governmental organizations to help improve the standard of shareholding in this country’’. The chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN), Mr. Boniface Okezie, said the development is worrisome because of the bad image it tends to create. Okezie likened the emergence of many shareholders associations as the high number of political parties that registered in the just concluded 2019 elections in the country. He said many of the associations are posing to represent the shareholders, while in fact, they have no mission. According to him, “Most of the said shareholders associations have no mission of what they are actually out to achieve. They think the shareholders’ platform is a place to make money. Their activism attempts cannot help the shareholders because they do not understand the principles and ethics of being a representative to the shareholders. “If you look closely at their activities, you will discover that they are not complying with Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) laws. They think all the association represents companies’ shareholders should be concern about is only getting dividends. PSAN Chairman said some of the associations are now like market women roaming in the market. He however blamed the situation on the market regulator. “This ugly problem was created by the regulator who granted them the chance to form these numerous associations which do not add value to the market or the shareholders. Frankly speaking, this trend is quite absurd and embarrassing. The problem started during the tenure of Arunma Oteh who want to use them to counter the genuine established associations which have been in existence long ago. She allowed it this because we have been very professional in our dealings with the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC); and she didn’t like it. Also commenting, Adeleke Adebayo told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that the incident of shareholders association proliferation is a hard nut that will be difficult to crack because we are under democracy and the constitution guarantees fundamental human rights which include that of freedom of associations. He said there is no way to stop the formation of the associations. “The situation is not easy to control because we are under democracy and the constitution allows for freedom to form or join an association. That is why we have over 100 political parties. That was why late Chief gani Fawehinmi took the Federal Government to court. The same thing applies to shareholders associations. “As as today, we have one-man association operating as a shareholders’ association. This is quite embarrassing. For any association to be recognised, ethics and principles must be followed. These associations pretend to be representing shareholders and their respective companies. But they need to be stopped. Companies should stop all these so-called associations because they tend to pose more threat than good to the shareholders, companies and other stakeholders. Adebayo maintained that the few shareholders association are enough for the country. According to him, “The recognised shareholders we know today are not more than four or five. SEC is responsible for the proliferation of the associations. Multiplicity of associations in the capital market is not a healthy development. Surprisingly, the companies know those of them that add value to them and their shareholders. Why some of us are not too bothered about the development is that, with time, when the chips are down, the true picture will become clearer.” Sunny Nwosu,  the  National Coordinator, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria,said  Corporate Affairs Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission that have caused the multiplication of shareholder associations because they have not done what they are supposed to do in checking some of these groups. ‘’We are aware some of them do not even have secretaries; they are made of just an individual. But it is not the duty of Sunny Nwosu or ISAN to go and scrutinise other shareholder associations; it is a duty of CAC, which is a regulator to registration and incorporation. However, I do not believe that the country needs any quack shareholder association.The law is very clear; every shareholder association must have up to 50 followers. However, anybody can bring 50 names and say these are my followers. The question is, did CAC do a diligent follow-up exercise to know whether these shareholder associations are existing or not? Does SEC take the pains of visiting the offices of these shareholder associations? If there is a loophole in this country, so many people will take advantage of it. “What makes you a member of company is the issuance of its certificate to you as a shareholder or the Central Securities Clearing Systems’ report that shows you are a shareholder. If you don’t fall under these two categories, whether you are the biggest shareholder association, you cannot enter into an AGM.Unfortunately, SEC is encouraging this by inviting some of these associations to their functions. At the beginning, the associations were inviting SEC to say that they had been approved so they can go to AGMs, and they were embarrassing company secretaries. Some of them send text messages to company secretaries threatening them. I will never support such a thing because shareholder associations are there as non-governmental organizations to help improve the standard of shareholding in this country’’.