ADO-EKITI – Ekiti State Governor ,Dr Kayode Fayemi says  his administration has increased  the fund meant for pension and gratuity from N10 million to N100 million monthly.He  disclosed this during a meeting with the executive members of the state chapter of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP), in Ado-Ekiti Fayemi decried the hardship of the  pensioners  occasioned by the  non-payment of their gratuity and irregular payment of pension. He hinted that the gesture would ensure that more pensioners were captured in the scheme . Led by its  state chairman  Elder Ayo Kumapayi, the pensioners said the visit was  to congratulate Fayemi on his  recent Cout of Appeal victory and to also thank him for the regular payment of their pensions monthly since October 2018. Dr Fayemi said that the welfare of pensioners had always remained a top priority of his administration, stressing that the retirees deserve timely payment of their entitlements for the selfless services they had rendered to the state and the nation at large. According to him “The three areas that you highlighted, we would take a further look if the six percent and 15 percent were stopped in February 2015 soon after we left, we would take a further look at it. I wish we can reinstate that within the limited resources available to government. I will discuss with the Head of Service and we see precisely what the situation is and we will try and meet you on your request as far as that one is concerned. “On the 100 million naira increase in the gratuity fund, when I came to you during campaign, we were talking about something even broader than that, we were talking about a bond that will be organised in a manner that we can pay off the outstanding obligation the state has, then we would have to find ways to repay the bond. “We are looking at other creative ways. What we are doing right now is mainly a stop gap measure to ensure that the number of people who can access gratuity increases because how many retirees can 10 million naira cater for even if it is N2 million gratuity that everyone is entitled to, then barely four people would benefit. Governor Fayemi also restated the resolve of his administration to establish recreational facilities for the elderly where the issue of their health would be taken care of by the state through Health Insurance Scheme that will soon commence.