LAGOS – Justice Walter Onnoghen, the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), last Thursday resigned his appointment with immediate effect. The embattled former CJN reportedly turned in his resignation letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday evening, a day after the National Judicial Council (NJC) recommended that he should be compulsorily retired for alleged misconduct. The NJC had on Wednesday said it forwarded the outcome of its investigation into corruption allegations against Onnoghen to Buhari, for action. The NJC in a statement signed by Soji Oye, its Director of Information, said it convened an emergency meeting to consider the report of the five-man committee it constituted to investigate allegations of misconduct that were levelled against Onnoghen and Justice Tanko Muhammad, the Acting CJ. However, the NJC said it decided to refrain from considering the allegation that Onnoghen failed to declare his assets, saying it would amount to subjudice since the matter is in court. Oye stated: “The National Judicial Council reconvened today (last Wednesday) in an emergency meeting to consider the report of the five-man committee constituted to investigate the allegations of misconduct made against Hon. Mr. Justice W. S. N. Onnoghen (GCON) and Hon. Mr. Justice I. T. Muhammad (CFR). “Council decided that the allegations relating to assets declaration that were levelled against Hon. Mr. Justice W. S. N.Onnoghen, GCON were subjudice and therefore abstained from considering them. “Council reached a decision on the petitions written by Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and others and conveyed its decision to President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR). “Council also resolved that by the nature of the decision reached, it would be inappropriate to publicise it before conveying it to Mr. President.” It would be recalled that the NJC had on February 13, said it was satisfied that corruption allegations against the suspended CJN deserved to be investigated. The council also okayed the probe of the Acting CJN, Justice Muhammad, on the allegation that he engaged in misconduct by making himself available to be sworn by President Buhari as Onnoghen’s replacement. Pursuant to Rule 20 (1) of the Judicial Discipline Regulations, the NJC, constituted a five-man investigation panel headed by a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice S. A. Akintan, to look into various petitions that were lodged both against Onnoghen and Muhammad. It directed the Investigation Committee “to work expeditiously, determine all the petitions and responses and report to Council for a final decision”. Speaking on his resignation, Chief Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), Onnoghen’s lead defend counsel at the CCT, where he was being prosecuted for false and non-declaration of assets, said the ex-CJN resigned voluntarily in the interest of the judiciary and that he might have done so following the recommendations of the NJC. He said: “He took a decision after the NJC, which has the power under the Constitution to take a decision, has taken a decision.” It would be recalled that the Federal Government on January 11, 2019 filed a six-count charge against Justice Onnoghen, including failure to declare his assets between June 2005 and December 14, 2016. The charges included the allegations that the suspended CJN made false declaration of his assets on December 14, 2016 by allegedly omitting to declare his domiciliary dollar, euro and pound sterling accounts as well as his two naira accounts, all maintained with Standard Chatered Bank (Nig.) Ltd. Onnoghen had pleaded not guilty to the six counts. Onnoghen resigned without allowing the controversial issue, which had been in the courts, to be opened at the National Assembly. The Federal Government, it was gathered, would require two-thirds majority of the Senate to remove Onnoghen from office, according to the Constitution. Justice Onnoghen’s resignation, however, has elicited mixed reactions from senior lawyers and other stakeholders, including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the ruling All Progressives ongress (APC). Jiti Ogunye, a Lagos lawyer, described Onnoghen’s resignation as “appearing to be an afterthought and escapism”. Mr Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), in his reaction to Onnoghen’s resignation, said Onnoghen could have decided to call it quits in the interest of the judiciary. According to him, “Without judging whether the CJN was right or wrong, because I cannot speak on that, I think it has come to a point where he would have decided that in the interest of the judiciary as an institution, it was better that he removed himself. “I see the resignation as a no-liability resignation, which means without accepting that he had done wrong. I haven’t read the (resignation) letter but that is my thought. The issue had become messy and so, a time would come you would say to yourself that if I’m the problem in the way of the judiciary, I would step down and deal with the issues I’m facing as a person, so as not to allow this to disrupt the judiciary. If that is what he has done, I applaud and salute him.” Agbakoba added, “People who say he could have done that earlier could have a point. But, it is never too late. The important thing is that he has done it. I think I would have done it earlier. But, he may have decided to ride it out. But, he has now seen that he could not resist the forces against him, because clearly, as far as I’m concerned, even if he has done something wrong, the entire process has been politically motivated, without question. That cannot be denied. So, I applaud and salute him for taking himself out of the process.” Prof Awa Kalu (SAN), while expressing sadness over the matter, said he had no doubts that Onnoghen’s resignation was inevitable. He said: “I have to say that I am extremely sad because a good career has come to an end in a way that not all will acclaim. I don’t think that the majority of the people who have watched the travails of the learned Chief Justice will come to an inevitable conclusion, that is to say that justice has been served.” Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), on his own, said, “Onnoghen was virtually hounded out of the judiciary and of the seat of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, not because of any offence that has been proved, but, I genuinely believe, because of one, where he comes from, his ethnic group; two, his religion; three, the fact that he was too unbending to accommodate the excesses of the executive arm of government; and four, because he was not even considered to have been fit to occupy the position in the first instance. That was why the President never agreed to confirm his appointment many months after the Senate had okayed him until the President travelled and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had to do the unthinkable. And I also think that the cabal never forgave Osinbajo for that.” Prof Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, described Onnoghen’s resignation as “embarrassing and shameful”, saying he ought to have left as soon as the allegations were raised against him. Sagay said: “It’s disappointing because he should have done this thing (resign) since January when the news came out that he failed to declare some of his assets. He should have done it instead of going to court and embarrassing himself and the whole country.” However, the main opposition party, PDP maintained that the Federal Government frustrated Onnoghen out of office. Diran Odeyemi, the party’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, said the development had created bad image for Nigeria. Odeyemi said: “It is a pity that the FG has frustrated Justice Onnoghen out of office, therefore, achieving a premeditated plan against the topmost hierarchy of the judiciary. Nigerians obviously have not heard the whole story of why Onnoghen is being persecuted. But, we are sure that very soon the fear of the APC government and the reasons behind the orchestrated plan will be revealed. “The whole world is watching and it is unfortunate the negative message we are passing with the treatment meted out to officials of the judiciary being third arm of government will definitely affect our rating in the comity of nations. We wish Justice Onnoghen happy retirement.” But, APC said Onnoghen’s resignation had vindicated Buhari and the party. Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, recalled that the party rose in defence of the President when he suspended Onnoghen. According to him, the party knew from the beginning that the allegations against Onnoghen were too serious and that the President does not act on frivolities.