Lagos – The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) said on Tuesday that it re-arrested Justice Rita Ofili-Ajumogobia, a former Federal High Court judge, to enable it prefer a fresh criminal charge against her. The commission said it re-arrested Ofili-Ajumogobia in line with the decision of the Appeal Court, Lagos Division, in a case involving Justice Hyeladzira Nganjiwa, where it said that a judge could not be prosecuted until he or she had either been dismissed or compulsorily retired by the NJC. It said that since it had presented Justice Ofili-Ajumogobia before the NJC for disciplinary action and that the NJC had taken a position, the commission would now approach the court to prefer fresh charges her. EFCC had re-arrested the former judge on Tuesday soon after an Ikeja High Court struck out a 30-count corruption charge against her. Daily Independent reports that the EFCC had laid siege to the former judge for over two hours after Justice Hakeem Oshodi struck out the suit against her. Ofili-Ajumogobia’s relief was temporary as the operatives, numbering about fifteen, waited for her in the court premises after she stepped out of the courtroom. Ofili-Ajumogobia, who wore a leg cast on her right leg, was leaving the court when she saw the EFCC officials and fled back upstairs into the court. The embattled judge notified the court of her impending arrest but Justice Oshodi said there was nothing he could do anymore since the case file had already been closed. The operatives, who had waited until the court rose, arrested the former judge immediately she stepped out and escorted her into a waiting white Hilux van. Ofili-Ajumogobia has been dismissed as a judge on the orders of the National Judicial Commission (NJC). Justice Oshodi had struck out the 30-count corruption charge against her, describing the suit as a waste of judicial time. In November 2016, the EFCC arraigned Ofili-Ajumogobia, who was still a serving judge, and Godwin Obla, a former EFCC prosecutor, on a 30-count charge where they both pleaded not guilty. They were both granted bail on self-recognisance. The anti-graft agency, on February 2018, amended the charges, reducing them to 24 counts, and the duo was re-arraigned. At the resumption of the proceedings on Tuesday, Justice Oshodi expressed dismay at EFCC for wasting the time of the court. The judge said: “The prosecution wasted the time of the court knowing full well that the court lacks jurisdiction as at the time of calling the 12th witness, but still went ahead to amend the charge to call two more witnesses. “The EFCC was aware of the Court of Appeal’s decision on Justice Hyeladzira Nganjiwa where it had reached a decision that any attempt by any government agency to try a judicial officer without first waiting for the verdict of the NJC’s disciplinary committee will amount to a breach of the constitution. “Going by the decision of the Court of Appeal, continuing with this case would be an exercise in futility. This decision has rendered useless all that has been done so far. “The prosecution knew that this was an exercise in nullity. They should have brought an application to have the charges dropped, but they still persisted. “The prosecution in this case admitted that they jumped the gun,” the judge ruled. The judge also frowned at the judicial system for not making provisions to fine the prosecution for wasting the judicious time of the court. In the ruling, Justice Oshodi pointed out that the anti-graft agency jumped the gun for not waiting for the NJC to dismiss the judge before filing charges against her. “This case is hereby struck out and dismissed,” the judge ruled. The EFCC had alleged that Ofili-Ajumogobia tried to pervert the course of justice by collecting N5 million through her account, 1015319084 domiciled in UBA, from Obla. Obla was also accused of giving gratification of N5 million to a public officer (Ofili-Ajumogobia) by paying the money directly into her UBA account. The anti-graft agency accused the judge of enriching herself with N8 million which she could not give reasonable explanation for. In the course of the trial, the EFCC, through its lead counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, called a total of 14 witnesses before closing its case. When it was time for Ajumogobia to open her defence, she filed a no case submission while challenging the court’s jurisdiction to try her.