Hon. Godwin Adode is popularly known as Coach Tete, is the Chairman of Ughelli North local government area of Delta state. In this interview with KOFA KINGS, he speaks on  the victory of the Delta State Governor, Sen. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa in the recent governorship election. Excerpts: We have read about you on social media where different people were describing you as the best council chairman in the state with the achievements you have recorded a year ago, what is your take on this? Let me first of all say that my developmental projects in Ughelli North are inspirations from Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa, and because of that I have actually done a lot that if I begin to count, we will not leave here today; I don’t have passion for the office but have passion for my people. What am doing now is that a lot of things that have gone wrong in the local government and that is what we planning to put in order. Though, there are no much finances but the little that is coming, we trying to empower some people. I was doing a lot of empowerment on women at least 20 women every month. I have empowered over 170 persons both males and females on head dressing fashion and designs which recently just t passed out. I gave out 70 sowing machines, 70 head dressing dryers and 70 washing and basins which I give the best among all. At Uwheru I picked 2 boys for training over 5 boys to learning hand work which cost over N50,000.00, I am building 6 class rooms block at Ododegho community. I did the renovation of the healthcare centre around the council and even expand it, and I bought chairs for the Legislative Arm worth N4M, the Agbarho bridge was also reconstructed by because of the series of accidents that are happening there by day and other projects I could not remember. How do you describe Okowa’s victory and when he receive certificate of return? I was so happy and thank God for his victory. I know he will do more for the state and that is why he nicknamed the Ekwueme of the universe because he believes in working to satisfy Deltans and l know the electorates have faith in him that Okowa will not disappoint them. Do you see Ogboru going to court to challenge Okowa’s victory as a problem to your party? For me, the man just want to go to court because he wants to go to court not for anything. The margin is just too much. He is going to court to tell his people that he went to court, though lost. If not between you and me, we all know that Okowa defeated him even in his own town. What are your expectations in 2019 as Okowa assumes his 2nd tenure? What he did in his first tenure will be little compared to what he intends to do again. He has said it and he is a man who always keeps to his promise. He has said he is going to do more and I believe him and I will continue to say that Okowa will not disappoint Deltans and he is the man am emulating and that is why am doing what am doing in Ughelli North as the chairman in terms of development. In Okowa’s first tenure, he did so well and that is had given him victory at the end of the day and this he has extend to everyone and even the opposition party, whether PDP, APC or any other political party.