Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, is a fourth-time lawmaker in the House of Representatives, representing Isuikwuato/Umunneochi Federal Constituency of Abia State. In this chat with AHMED MUSA, she spoke on why she is seeking the speakership position and what she would do to pilot the affairs of the House in the 9th Assembly if elected speaker. Excerpts: Don’t you think Nigeria is not ripe enough to have a female number four citizen? I don’t think it’s fair to gen- eralise because Mr President has said it in different fora of late that women will be giv- en a fair share in his admin- istration. I sincerely believe him and I do know that our country has matured over the years to have a female speak- er. Mind you I am not the first because in the sixth Assem- bly we had a female Speaker though her tenure was trun- cated. And I strongly believe I can pilot the House to a po- sition of envy if given the chance. What are the strategies you have to achieve this if you are finally elected? First and foremost I will adopt a legislative agenda with clear framework for compliance and monitoring. Since the 7th Assembly we have adopted a legislative agenda to guide our work. I must say this has been a good initiative by the House and I hope to continue and improve on it. I will begin by engaging various stakeholders to seek their input to ensure the agenda for the 9th House is even more robust and prom- ising. I will also ensure that there’s improved communica- tions with the general public because we are in the assem- bly to represent their various interests. It’s often said and I believe that the legislature is the only arm of government that is closest to the people. Since the legitimacy of our mandate as members is dependent on the people and their continued support is necessary for us to achieve our constitutional responsi- bilities, it’s important for we, as a collective body, embrace and enhance our relationship and engagement with them- bearing in mind that four years from now – which from my experience is usually clos- er than it seems- we would be called to account for our stew- ardship. How do you hope to cope com- munication wise? From my experience, I have learned that our rela- tionships within the House impact our work and effec- tiveness. Consequently, I will run an inclusive, responsive and transparent leadership to foster harmony in the House. I will ensure that as much as possible, there’s a conducive environment for legislative work and collaboration across party and ideological lines. Since the House is transiting into a new House what are you going to do about bills that were not concluded? A number of key reform bills were proposed, consid- ered and passed in the 8th House. Chief amongst them are the Constitution amend- ment bills which contained significant amendments such as financial indepen- dence for our counterpart in the states. The successful adoption of these laws and their assent into law was a milestone in the 8th House, unfortunately, a number of some other Con- stitution amendments were not assented to while some other key reform bills were not concluded or adopted by the 8th House with its term running out. These include bills such as the Police Reform Bill, Petro- leum Industry Governance Bill, PIGB, Universal Basic Education Act Amendment Bill, the National Assembly Budget and Research Office, NABRO Bill, Audit bill, Wit- ness Protection Programme bill etc. There were also many billstouchingonsecurity,em- ployment, improvement of the business environment, etc that were not concluded or vetoed. I will work on them to ensure they are revisited and concluded. What are you going to do about legislative oversight in the 9th House if you emerge? Oversight is an important duty and power bestowed upon us by the Constitution. Our oversight of executive programmes and activities is acknowledged by all as be- ing critical to effective perfor- mance and good governance in Nigeria. While I believe that the 8th NASS accom- plished a lot with respect to oversight, more works needs to be done.