ABUJA – The Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) has said that it would continue to ensure the delivery of world-class public and private buildings, with exquisite interior and exterior ambiance for healthy living. Umar Gambo Jibrin, the executive secretary, FCDA, gave the assurance while declaring open a seminar organised in conjunction with Creative House at the authority’s conference hall on Thursday in Abuja. According to him, “This exhibition is the authority’s modest contribution towards the promotion of optimum standards and international best practices in all aspects of the building industry. Much more, it serves as a forum where participants can offer innovative solutions and options to knotty interior challenges being faced in various building types. “The theme will provide a suitable platform for a one-on-one interactive among stakeholders in the building and also sensitize on the need and benefits of defining interior spaces with accent pieces and treatment through practical demonstrations.” Speaking on space definition, the FCDA boss said: “Space definition is all about taking responsibility for the spaces we occupy by expressing ourselves with the things that mean most to us personally, professionally and socio-culturally. This is natural instinct. “This exhibition is apt and timely as we all live, work and play in spaces. When we take responsibility for these spaces, we derive a psychological settlement and calmness that is subtle yet profound enough to affect our wellbeing and productivity.” The executive secretary, who was represented by the director, Public Building, Emmanuel Oluwadamisi, said, “Externally, they could be colours, columns and fixtures like doors or other forms that embellish and give character to both the structure and cityscape, silently speaking volumes about the individual, establishment or community.” Narrowing to interior spacing, Jibrin stated that, “Accents are generally used to aesthetically pull your spaces together for a personalised and yet functional ambience which enhances our general wellbeing and productivity, creativity and imagination.” Jibrin, therefore, called on all relevant departments and agencies to also carry out similar trainings so as to “add value, richness, little colour, painting and artwork”, adding well as deepen the knowledge of space definition and aesthetics, hence the beauty of Abuja.