Timi Frank, a political activist and former deputy national publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has saluted the courage of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Bauchi State governor-elect, Bala Mohammed, and his counterpart in Adamawa, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, for putting up a hard fighting to defend the mandate given by people of their states for the opposition party. In a statement he issued in Abuja on Thursday, Frank also felicitated with all other PDP governors-elect, senators-elect, House of Representatives members-elect and all the state House of Assembly members-elect across the country. Speaking in retrospect, he said PDP fought a good fight throughout the country despite what he described as “evil marriage and conspiracy by the APC government with security agencies and the electoral body to turn Nigeria to a one party state.” He claimed that the ruling party “has now lost popularity in all the states of the federation, struggled to rig where it won and eventually becomes a regional party having lost massively in South-East and the South-South zones. “I make bold to say that the APC in Nigeria of today can never win a free, fair and credible election at all levels.” According to the former APC spokesman, the flood of petitions to electoral petition tribunals across the states is an evidence of a sham and badly conducted election in the history of Nigeria under the APC government. “This election puts President Muhammadu Buhari’s integrity in question except he toes the path of late President Musa Yar’adua, who acknowledged that the election that brought him into office, was characteriSed by fraud and apologise to Nigerians. “When I raised alarms over plan to militarise the just concluded elections, some people didn’t take it serious but Nigerians could see how a government they expected to protect them unleashed its institutions on them as video evidence of Ballot box snatching, intimidation of voters and massive manipulation of their votes were witnessed during the elections. “While I wholeheartedly congratulate the opposition PDP candidates across the country who could not be rigged out , especially in Rivers, Bauchi, Adamawa, Oyo, Imo, Benue and others, I strongly believe that Judiciary will do the needful in Kano, Nasarawa, Kastina among other states where the will of the people were obviously manipulated. “I urge all the victorious PDP candidates to strongly determine to better the lot of their people who have repose confidence in them by massively embarking on projects and policies which will have direct positive bearing on the lives of Nigerians.”