Chief Romanus Egbuladike is one of the foundation members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a member of the defunct faction of the Democratic People’s Party (DPP). In this interview with ANOLU VINCENT, he gives reasons why the APC lost the last governorship election in the state and proffers solution on how to reposition the party in the South East. Excerpts: May we meet you please? I am Romanus Izuawuba Egbuladike from Awo Omamma in the Oru East council area, a foundation member of the ruling APC. I was formerly of the Democratic People’s Party (DPP) and I worked as a member of the National merger Committee of the APC. Upon the formation of APC, I was made the Interim National Welfare secretary of the party (APC) under Chief Bisi Akande, former governor of Osun state. The merger committee was led by Tom Ikimi and all the meetings we had took place at the Abuja private residence of Tom Ikimi. Currently, I am a federal board member of the Benin Owena River Basin Development Authority. I am also the apex leader of the APC in my LGA (Oru East). The Nation has had an unbroken democratic rule for twenty years now. Would you say that we have actually arrived democratically? The answer is “Yes” and “No” because it is better you have something half than to have nothing. No matter how you look at it today, our democracy is better than what we had during the military era. The problem is partially with the INEC and with some over ambitious, desperate politicians. For instance, INEC came to a state like Imo and surprisingly declared somebody who did not have the 2/3 constitutional requirement of LGAs in the state as winner of the governorship election and gave him a Certificate of Return. In the same state, INEC declared somebody a senator-elect but refused to issue him a certificate of return just because the INEC returning officer later on came to claim that he declared the result under duress. The police, DSS and all the agents of the political parties were there when he declared the result. In the Imo North senatorial district (Okigwe zone), somebody won the election but because he is not the preferred candidate of INEC, they (INEC) refused to declare him the winner but only chose to declare somebody who did not win the election and who even ranked the 4th position in the line up winner and thereafter ran away. Curiously, somebody who was holding the result booths by booths was not declared winner and till today (6/4/2019) nobody has been given certificate of return for Imo North. So if you look at this, you will understand that our problem is partially with INEC so I will advise the federal government to constitute an INEC that has everything to conduct a decent, credible and unbiased election in the country. Our problem is the collation officers and the Returning Officers because INEC gave them the power to just declare anybody of their choice a winner. For instance, in my LGA (Oru East) during the House of Assembly and governorship elections, you saw a PDP candidate who had just 3 votes in a booth but at the collation centre, the 3 votes were dramatically collated as 3,000 votes. It is a serious problem and so, our fate lies with the collation officers and the Returning officers recruited outside INEC because they come from either a professor of a university or from any school. Such a fellow has no stake and wants to make his money and to serve the highest bidder. So let INEC do the whole thing that concerns election in our country. A staff of INEC will find it difficult to put his job on the line but all these INEC adhoc- staff have no stake at all. I am calling for the cancellation of ad-hoc collation officers and returning officers because they are serving the highest bidders for the simple reason that they do not have stakes. I also advise that presiding officers in the booths should send their results directly to the E.O.s at the LGAs for INEC to compile the results there. What do you think was solely responsible for the defeat of APC in the last governorship election in the state? APC wanted initially to lose and it is good for everybody that everybody in APC has lost. It is now time for them to know where they got it wrong. The problem was the primaries organised by the APC in this state where the party rejected the primaries and said that 2 primaries were fake according to what the National Chairman said. But he later took somebody who did not participate in the primaries as the party’s governorship candidate and who was not even up to 3 months old in the party. This was because of the gang up against Owelle (Governor Okorocha) by the Owelle boys who had all along been eating and dining with him many years ago. They thought that Governor Okorocha would be easily defeated. Now everybody has seen what happened and it is not easy to outshine your master. I am not saying that Okorocha is a saint but it would have been better if they had joined hands to push his candidate Uche Nwosu through but now everybody has lost. Owelle won in Orlu zone and the Action Alliance (AA) where Uche Nwosu ran to after being denied the governorship ticket did wonderfully well, secured 8 seats in the House of Assembly and 2 in the National Assembly while waiting for the Okigwe zone senatorial result to be declared. If the constitution should be religiously followed, there must be a re-run governorship election in this state because none of the frontline runners – Ihedioha and Uche Nwosu met the constitutional requirement to be declared the winner. So anybody talking of APC in the South East without regard to Owelle (Okorocha) is being smart by half because as a foundation member of the APC, I observed the whole role Owelle played in the formation of the APC in the palatial parlour of Tom Ikimi in Abuja in 2013/2014. I want to remind our party member that on the day APC was formed and offices shared, there were chaos and crisis at Ikimi’s house in Abuja because the ACN, then with 6 governors was claiming that they would produce the national chairman of the party. The ANPP then with 3 governors was also claiming that they would produce the National Chairman; even the CPC then (Buhari’s party) was also claiming that they would produce the National Chairman of the party. Between that time and break time, it took the people from our state (Imo) to alert Okorocha who quickly flee into the venue and when he arrived with his charisma, he shared the positions alone and I was an eye witness. He told the audience that the ACN should be allowed to produce the National chairman while the ANPP should be given the position of National Secretary of the party and the CPC given that of the National Treasurer, that a section of the APGA (his party) be given the National organizing secretary and that my own party then (DPP) should be given the National Auditor. After doing this, President Muhammadu Buhari stood up and called Owelle “My governor, My governor” and there was peace in the House. That was how the APC was formed and that was how Chief Bisi Akande, John Odigie Oyegun and Adams Oshiomhole became chairmen one after the other, all descendants of the ACN. So, such a man, even if there is a mistake he made should not be thrown away. So I call on the National chairman of the APC and the President Muhammadu Buhari to revisit the suspension of Owelle (governor Okorocha) from the APC for the progress of the party in the South East. Anybody advising them otherwise is not real but fake. I also call on the National chairman and the president to convene a meeting of all the 89 National merger committee members of the APC at least for a handshake and for the nation to know those out of their selfless services brought the opposition to power because in everything, there must be a foundation and you do not just throw away the foundation because you have used it.