LAGOS – The serene atmosphere of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, was intense on Tuesday following a clash between men of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) and aviation industry unions, who were picketing the Caverton Helicopters. At least, 14 protesting union members were whisked away by officials of RRS, who insisted that their action was illegal, while no fewer than five of them were hopitalised as a result of injuries sustained through the police brutality. The RRS officials were allegedly invited to disrupt the peaceful protest of the unions by the management of Caverton Helicopters. One of the union leaders, who identified himself as Paul Igene, alleged that the union members were assaulted because Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was due to fly with one of the helicopters of the company on Tuesday. He alleged that when its members queried the brutality meted out to their colleagues by the RRS officials, they claimed that it was “order from above.” Igene explained that the three unions, Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) and National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) had been in discussion with the management of Caverton on terminal benefits, redundancy payment and other welfare issues in the past one year, but the management had been dilly-dallying on the issues. He explained that after faltering for almost a year, the company’s management finally agreed to ensure rightful payment to the workers, which elapsed on March 31, 2019, but it again failed to fulfill its promise. He alleged that during the crisis, the unions’ vehicles were towed away and damaged in the process, noting that the unions would kick against such attack on its members and leaderships. He said: “The RRS officials told us pointblank that their action was ordered from Abuja after the Caverton management invited them to assault us. Our members were beaten assaulted by the RRS. They were actually whisked away to their office at Oshodi. But, when we got there, they were later released to us. However, some of them have been hospitalised at the moment. “This matter has not ended and it won’t end like this. How can you attack harmless officials who are calling for what is due to them. They also mentioned the name of Yemi Osinbajo because they claimed he was to use one of the helicopters of the company today (yesterday).” Comrade Aba Ocheme, NUATE General Secretary, told our correspondent that their members were arrested and detained, adding, “We were mobilising heavily against Caverton and Nigeria Police.” The workers blocked the Airport Road in protest, causing traffic gridlock around the MMIA toll gate for almost two hours. DSP Joseph Alabi, spokesman of MMIA Police Command, confirmed the blockade of Airport Road by the protesters. He however said the team that arrested the union members were from Lagos Police Command, and that they were there to provide security.