Answers to why Nigeria’s military has continue to struggle in its fight to end insurgency can be located in the grumblings of lower officers who alleged that their superiors, like carrion birds, feed fat on the misery, death and despoliation of their own men, writes NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE Seasoned estate agent/developer, Steve (not his real name, like some others in the story and details given by them have been altered for their safety as requested), now has a long list of top military officers as clients. Though based in Lagos, the agent, in the last two years has made forays into Abuja, the nation’s capital, to acquire landed properties for his clients. “They are top army officers mostly engaged in the North East war theater looking out to invest in properties in the country’s capital,” he explained to Sunday INDEPENDENT one early morning at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, NAIA, on his way back to Lagos. According to him, he was linked to his military clients some two years back after an army colonel whom he helped acquire properties in Lagos asked if he had business contacts in the Abuja property market. “Between then and now, I have helped in land acquisition, purchase of choice properties in the FCT running into N250 million,” the property developer said, though he admitted that the figure covered other military clients introduced to him by the army colonel. Interestingly, as he further explained, the officers were mostly those deployed to conflict zones, especially in the North. For Ben Ikechukwu, a property lawyer based in Abuja, the military generals are the biggest client in property business since 2013 till date. And compared to what he knows about the business in the FCT, Steve’s turnover is still child’s play compared to bigger deals he has done so far. “An army general can pay twice as much for a property valued at N300 million. In the early days of 2013 and 2014, these monies were paid in cash even as bank transactions were without as much worry or fear of probe from the security or anti money laundering agencies,” the lawyer said. While the trend has continued till date with bigger monies involved, says the barrister, there are attempts at more discretion, though. “They use fronts more these days, made up of trusted lawyers and bank officials, as go between,” he added. But military generals remain the biggest clientele in property acquisition in the FCT, he maintained. Somewhere in Gwarimpa, an upscale settlement of the FCT, an army general who recently came back from Borno was involved in a land dispute that had to be reported to the Nigerian Police FCT command. As gathered, the army general had acquired the piece of property at eye popping N550 million, paid out in raw cash. As it however turned out, the army officer was not aware that the land was being disputed by two relatives, each of them claiming ownership. The army man was said to have paid money to one of the feuding relatives while the other still insisted that he, not the other paid to, was the legitimate owner of the property. But for one of the police officers privy to the dispute and bemused at the obscene amount of money involved, “how does a general get that kind of money in cash for a piece of land?” the issue would have become more open to the embarrassment of the officer and the military in general. For the police officer, the amount of land related cases involving military officers in that last two to three years is nothing short of alarming, and require proper investigation. “They run into billions of naira in Abuja alone. Shouldn’t this be worrisome given that the Nigerian military has been consistently pilloried over corruption related allegations” asked the officer, rhetorically. While there are no official reports from any agency pointing out any peculiar pattern in land ownership and recent purchases in Abuja and other hot property hubs across the country by military top brass, estate agents in the nation’s capital, agree with Steve and Ikechukwu that top officers from the Nigerian Army, NA, Air Force, NAF and Navy, NN, particularly those deployed to fight the war on terror and insurgencies up North, currently rank as the biggest patrons in large property acquisitions these days. An estate agent, who asked not to be mentioned by name for fear of losing customers, says that army generals are safer source of business and clientele. “With an army officer asking you to acquire land for him, you stand less chance of being invited by EFCC to answer questions on corruption,” the agent said. The property agent appears to be on point, at least going by a further explanation by an operative attached to the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, ICPC. Aside Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, ICPC is another graft fighting agency, tasked with official sleaze tracking. “Our commission was scheduled to commence property ownership verification in major cities from 2016. By the plan, all major property owners where requested to report to ICPC with proper documentation on their land and with other details like their place of work/business,” narrated the operative. He said that the operation never saw the light of day. “Our chairman never got around to giving approval for the operation,” he said. He added that news from the office grapevine alleged that orders from the presidency muzzled the effort, adding, “This development is quite strange given the avowed commitment of federal government to fight official financial sleazes.” Further investigations show that Property purchases top money laundering channels. Property market wonks, till date, still argue that estate valuation in Abuja is still largely, bogusly artificial on account of the source of money used to buy or build them. Officially, the Nigerian Defense Headquarters deny that its senior personnel are major contributors to the sleaze in Abuja or other prime property destination in the country. “I am not aware of any research or survey or any findings that has declared military officers as having the largest chunk of investments in the FCT. I am aware that there are statutory provisions for public servants to declare their assets and this include the military.  It must also be stated, very clearly, here that no military officer is profiteering from illicit personnel emoluments or any other form of remuneration. It is an aberration that cannot be condoned,” explained Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, Director of Defense Information, DDI. Unofficially, however, rank and file or junior officers disagree with the DDI. Around some watering holes (open bars) in Sabo Oke, Ilorin, some lower rank army officers occasionally make their disagreement loud, making a scene. These officers come from the Sobi Barracks, an army cantonment in Ilorin. Things as small as a little change in price of a bottle of beer could set them off into rage. But the bar owners in the area excuse their conduct, stating that their conduct is borne out of the raw deal they get from their bosses despite their sacrifices for the country. “These are men who have fought to protect Nigerians against Boko Haram but are not appreciated by their ‘ogas’ (bosses)” explained Afolabi Ilori, a drinking joint owner who has listened to sob stories from the army junior officers who come to his bar. So when the newspaper got to speak to one of the army men, a sergeant, about how generals buy choice properties in Abuja and the Defense Headquarters denial of the possible sleaze in the matter, there was at first a long silence, that warm evening at the drinking joint. It was the calm before storm. “They (DHQ) made the denial because they won’t admit their source of dirty money. Before, now, the source of corruption in the army was contract inflation and collection of kickbacks. These days, army generals feed on the dead.  Did they tell you why most soldiers who go to war in Maiduguri are not captured in the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System, IPPIS,” enquired the officer. Then he went on to make further allegations. The soldier alleges, for instance that apart from not being paid full recommended salaries as approved by federal government, the alleged deliberate attempt at not properly capturing soldiers, especially the fresh recruits so that when they are killed in action, KIA, or missing in action, MIA, their dependents can’t make any claims or collect their benefits. “In Sobi Barracks, widows of KIA soldiers are given just a week to pack out of their homes by army authority, in addition to not even getting financial compensation,” the soldier added. Another officer who claimed to be on break from the war in Maiduguri added another insight. Explaining to the newspaper, the soldier said that top generals hide details of KIAs and MIAs in their respective commands. “The last time the President came to Maiduguri, the mortuaries were emptied of dead soldiers while some critically wounded ones were removed to God knows where,” explained the second soldier. According to him, the effort was all in effort to make the body count fit the figures being sent to DHQ. The newspaper gathered that the complaints are not restricted to just the army rank and file alone. “Even the NAF junior officers are complaining that they are not getting their real salaries approved for the rank and file. What they get, according to them is what was approved since the days of Shehu Musa Yar Adua which is twice less of what has been approved currently,” explained a Defense Ministry source to the newspaper. But Nwachukwu debunks these claims, calling them spurious and divisive. “These claims are very untrue, particularly when it attempts to isolate the None Commissioned Officers of the Armed Forces. The capturing of personnel biometrics did not exclude any personnel or discriminate against any cadre of personnel. “It is a federal government policy that has been fully embraced by all the services of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. Any personnel who has not been captured certainly has not made himself or herself available for the exercise. The biometrics team went round all formations, including the North East theatre of operation to document our personnel,” he added. Offering what appears to be an olive branch to any belligerent officer, the DDI says that officers who feel left out in biometric capture could still make it into the system, proper. “There is still a window of opportunity for those who have not been captured. They only need to report to the finance department in their formations and tender a formal complaint. I must state unequivocally that no military top brass is indulging in profiteering of any sort, either from our counter terrorism and counter insurgency war or from any of our operational engagements,” he said. He also added that the claims being made were spurious and an attempt at undermining ongoing military operations. “It is capable of creating disaffection in the Armed Forces as well as dividing its ranks. No personnel can be short changed in the disbursement of emoluments, salaries and any other entitlements. These payments are procedurally handled and cannot be manipulated as they are subject to scrutiny by both internal and external auditors,” Nwachukwu added. But going by other credible sources, especially organisations specialised in measuring global best practices in defense policies, budgets and finances, Nwachukwu may have to do more than dishing out sound bites in DHQ’s defense. For instance, Transparency International, TI, in its Government Defense Anti-Corruption Index, GI, lists Nigeria among its Band E category alongside Afghanistan, Iraq and others. What this entails is that Nigeria’s GI ranking places it in one of the highest risk categories for corruption in the defense and security sector. The country’s highest risk area is Financial, followed by Operations, Procurement, Personnel, and Political. TI’s documented research apart from confirming allegations made by the rank and file of the military in the country, further suggests that consequence of unbridled sleazes in defense sector escalate conflicts, killings and assassinations, desertion by armies, insurgencies and many other unsavory outcomes. Not a few experts would hesitate in linking last year killing of Alex Sabundu Badeh, former Chief of Defense Staff, CDS, standing trail over a slew of corruption charges, and Major General Idris Alkali, former Chief of Administration of the Nigerian Army, to the corruption in the military. While Alkali was allegedly murdered by an irate mob outside Jos, Plateau State and his body dumped in a hole, Badeh was killed while returning from his farm at the outskirt of Lafia. Army and police authorities insist that these were mere happenstances of robbery and mob action. But details, especially from the killing of Badeh do not add up. Reliable sources in the intelligence circle for instance wonder why, allegedly, Teflon coated bullets were used to perforate the car radiator bearing the former CDS. Teflon, according to findings is a special lubricant that doesn’t allow a high caliber bullet ricochet upon impacting a hard object. Arms expect attribute amour piercing capabilities to the substance. Use of such bullet to demobilize the late CDS vehicle, according to intelligence suggests that Badeh’s killing was orchestrated. As a matter of fact, highly credible Defense and Foreign Affairs report published by the International Strategic Studies Association (ISSA) based in the United States of America, insist that both killings were meant to cover corruption in high places in the military. Given the upsurge in momentum by ‘the highest levels of government’ to stop leakages on the alleged corruption on defense procurement, “it is plausible that the attribution of a criminal ‘kidnapping-attempt-gone-wrong’ against the Air Chief Marshal was a convenient excuse to ensure that the victim — Badeh — could not divulge in court the pattern and details of corruption which has grown even more rampant in the current generation of defense leadership,” the report said.