The media arm of Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu (BOS) campaign organisation has distanced itself of any knowledge of the news making round for a special appreciation dinner on behalf of the governor-elect of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, describing it as false, reports.

The crew and its principals, have therefore, warned the public against falling prey to the deceptive tricks of fraudsters trying to use the governor-elect’s good name and that of his deputy to rob their supporters of their hard-earned money. A press statement to this effect made available to, also noted that apparently to effectively hoodwink and attract the innocent supporters and fans of the newly elected public officials to the occasion, the unidentified hands behind the invitation not only included the names of influential politicians in Lagos state in the invitation, but also ascribed functions to the respective individuals. “Aside the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who was named the father of the day on the invitation, there are immediate past governor of Osun State, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola and leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, who were announced as special guests of honour; and former Commissioner for Information and Strategy in Lagos State, Mr. Dele Alake, who was named as the Chief Host of the day amongst other notable figures in Lagos State. “However, our source, who told us he had spoken with the notable personalities used to headline the suspicious event, said that the said individuals have no knowledge of any appreciation dinner being put together for Sanwo-Olu. He added that they have condemned those using their names for any possible despicable acts. “I can tell you unequivocally that the respectable names on that dubious invitation have completely denied and condemned the intention of the faceless hands behind the tricky event for using their names apparently to hoodwink unsuspecting supporters, fans and friends of Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat. And they have also admonished the public to be cautious of fake news and fraudulent people in this era of digital media”.