ADO-EKITI – The renewed efforts at prosecuting gender based offenders  by the Kayode Fayemi led administration has been applauded . The International Federation of Female Lawyers (FIDA), Ekiti state branch Ado Ekiti gave the commendation  at the weekend during a cocktail party organized in honour of some outstanding members. The Chairperson FIDA in the State, Mrs Adefunke Anomawho  gave the commendation said the various laws enacted to check gender based violence have lifted the state . Specifically ,the women lawyer  praised the wife of Ekiti state governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi for leading the advocacy . The FIDA Chairperson said the Fayemi’s Government position on Gender Based Violence and Erelu Fayemi’s stand on anything call violence against women, and violation of child’s rights has reawakened the people’s awareness in the state. “Her Excellency, Erelu Bisi Fayemi’s efforts have become popular such that it has come to the knowledge of everybody in the state that it is no longer business as usual in view of her renewed fight against violation of women and child’s rights in the state, and I think this is commendable”. Among the honoraries were Dr. Mrs Foluke Dada, Mrs. Banke Oloba, and Mrs Rita Ilevbare were  National Vice President (NBA), National Treasurer (NBA), and FIDA National Assistant Secretary respectively. Also honoured  was Dr. Aarinola Olaiya, a young female doctor and indigene of Ekiti State who had the best result in Medicine recently at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife. Anoma who observed that prosecution of Gender Based offenders in the State was in slow pace because of some human constraints, said the situation has now improved in view of the recent efforts of Mrs. Fayemi and the State Government through the Ministry of Justice been headed by Hon. Wale Fapounda, the State Attorney General and Commissioner for justice. The honorees  expressed their appreciation to Fida Ekiti for the honour done to them, saying the gesture will go a long way at encouraging many female professionals and younger ones. Among dignitaries at the event were Iyaloja, and President General of market women and men, Chief Mrs Waye Oso with her team, the only Female j/Judge in the state, Monisola Abodunde, Former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the State, Hon. Obafemi Adewale, Member of House Representatives Elect, Hon. Olarewaju Ibrahim and Secondary school students from some selected schools in the state.