Lagos – As the Committee of Heads of Polytechnic Sector (COHEADS) commences its 141st regular meeting in Lagos, on Wednesday, the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) is threatening another strike and asking the committee to support the union in its demands from the Federal Government and the state governments. The committee meeting hosted by Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech) was flagged off by Mr. Masud Elelu, chairman of COHEADS of polytechnics sector in Nigeria. In his message, the chapter ASUP Chairman, Yekini Asafe, who acknowledged the support of COHEADS in the past appealed to the body to prevail on the governments to accede to the demands of the union. He listed the demands of the union to include, “NEED assessment as regards the release of revitalization fund of N15billion promised by the government, salary shortfall, promotion arrears and allowances, review of the scheme of service, regular payment of salaries in state government institutions and CONTIS 15 migration arrears.” Elelu, who is also the Rector, Kwara State Polytechnic, Ilorin, claimed ignorance of ASUP’s threat to embark on a strike and told newsmen the committee was yet to be briefed of intention by ASUP to embark on another strike. Earlier, the Rector of the host institution, Mr. Obafemi Omokungbe, assured the committee of the institution’s continued support for COHEADS and continued contributions to the technological and human capital development of the nation. Omokungbe disclosed that the college had grown in leaps and bounds since inception, adding that  YABATECH currently has eight schools with 46 departments. He used the opportunity to inform his colleagues (COHEADS) that YABATECH had indicated interest to host the next edition of West Africa Polytechnic Games (WAPOGA) and solicited their support. In a goodwill message, Mrs. Johu Faal, Sectary-General of the Commonwealth of Technical Universities and Polytechnics in Africa (CAPA) described COHEADS as an important member of the Kenya based body and sought for more positive presence of Nigeria in its activities.