ABUJA – Bashir Hassan, Acting Chairman of the National Population Commission (NPC), has decried low births registration in Nigeria, saying it  has remained a huge challenge for the planning and development of the country. Hassan who stated this in Abuja on the occasion of the public launch of impact evaluation report of UNICEF supported birth registration programme in Nigeria, identified low capacity, inadequate logistics, budgetary constraints, backlog of unprocessed returns, cultural barriers and low level of awareness as some of the factors responsible for low birth registration in Nigeria. The NPC chairman represented by Dr. Tayo Oyetunji, Commissioner representing Oyo State in the commission, revealed that prior to 2012, birth registration rates in Nigeria was 42 percent, adding that the implication was that three out of every five Nigerian were not registered. He however expressed optimism that with the intervention of UNICEF Nigeria Country Office with a five- year plan of action which aimed at accelerating the birth registration rates in Nigeria, that significant progress would be recorded. He assured that the National Population Commission would deploy technology, public awareness and involvement of community influencers and leaders to achieve nationwide birth registration. Also speaking, the UNICEF Country Representative in Nigeria, Mohamed Malick Fall, said only 30 per cent of children under the age of five years have had their births registered in the country. Fall said Nigeria’s rapid population growth requires stronger efforts to ensure that birth registration that could keep pace with the growth, especially in the under five population. Fall represented by Mr. Penniel Ironside, underscored the importance of birth registration, adding that birth registration establishes the existence of a child under the law and provides the foundation for safeguarding many of a child’s civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. He said, “The recording of births and deaths is essential for a modern administrative system, as it helps to create an inclusive society, protecting human rights, ensuring proper delivery of public services and tackling inequalities. “A reliable and well-functioning civil registration system is also crucial for monitoring our progress towards achieving the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs). “It does this by helping us to monitor other targets of the SDGs that are related to health, food security, clean water, education, migration and gender.” He further noted that birth registration was a critical part of UNICEF’s four pillars of child rights programming namely survival, development, protection and participation, adding that UNICEF has been with the Federal Government to address systemic bottlenecks that impede birth registration, with a view to achieving sustainable results for children.