Lagos – The management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has said that it would consistently grant its employees the freedom to pursue official and personal growth, saying this would lead to enhanced productivity in the system. Engr. Saleh Dunoma, the Managing Director, FAAN, stated this over the weekend in Calabar, the Cross River State Capital at first FAAN Customer Service/SERVICOM staff retreat with the theme ‘Leadership and Teamwork; Our Success Pillars’ held in the state. According to Dunoma, the retreat was expected to set the tone for more productive and mutually beneficial day-to-day behaviours in their workplace. Dunoma, who was represented at the occasion by Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, Director, Airport Operations, emphasised that staff retreat was a growing trend in the corporate world today because of its many benefits to large, medium and small organisations. He said: “We all know that a typical workday can be very frantic no matter what the office setting is like. FAAN Management has realised that taking the team out of their normal surroundings and into a neutral environment allows fewer interruptions and encourages learning and better productivity. “Research has shown that happy employees are productive employees and employees always return care with better work. When this venture was muted to me by the General Manager Customer, Service/SERVCOM, I decided to give her approval with the understanding to grow employees who are willing to give their best after the interaction. It is therefore expected that this will set the tone for more productive and mutually beneficial day-to-day behaviors in your workplace.” Dunoma charged the agency’s staff to see the retreat as an invaluable opportunity for every staff present to get out of the office and interact with each other in a social environment, adding that it was also a time to reflect and consider on how to improve the system. The FAAN boss said that the retreat would also offer the staff the opportunity to review their personal research for information and discover threats that had hindered the success of the department over the years. In her welcome address, Mrs. Ebele Okoye, General Manager, Customer Service/ SERVICOM Department, said that the purpose of the retreat was to enable staff to regroup and rediscover the passion for their work, thereby giving them the energy to work more effectively without sacrificing quality. Okoye lauded Dunoma for supporting their operational drive to make impact in the industry, stressing that the retreat would enable the agency’s staff to understand how to build better cooperation among ourselves, improve their moral abilities and build a better communication skill. “We all know that three quarters of our workforce wants and needs regular development opportunities to stay happy in their jobs. Therefore this retreat has been designed to act as a professional development opportunity as it is one of the few, if not the only time that almost all staff of the department from all the airports and SERVCOM Committee members’ headquarters come together for a common purpose”, Okoye stressed.