ABUJA – The Rotary International has donated the sum of Five Million, Seven Hundred and Thirty-Two Thousand, Three Hundred and Sixty Dollar (USD 5,732,360) to continue the fight against polio in Nigeria. The donation was handed over to UNICEF Deputy Country Representative Nigeria, Dr. Pernille Ironside. Speaking during the occasion which took place in Abuja on Friday, the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole commended Rotary International for the donation and called on other partners to support Nigeria on its efforts to become polio free. The Minister, in a press statement made available to Saturday INDEPENDENT by his Director Media and Public Relations, Mrs Boade Akinola stated that Nigeria is on its’ last lap to end polio, and that in the next couple of months, Nigeria would be certified polio free. However, the Minister said that most important thing is that all children that are previously in-accessible in the North-East must access vaccinations before the certification. Adewole commended National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) for routine immunisation in the country, saying, there is great improvement on the coverage of immunisation. According to him, “There is tremendous improvement on the routine immunisation, but we are not there yet, we need to work hard to ensure that we reach every child so that we can beat our chest and say yes we are there.” In his remarks, the Chairman Polio Plus Committee, Rotary international, Dr. Tunji Funsho, said that polio eradication is an expensive venture that requires everybody to be on board. “This donation, according to him will inspire other partners to come on board and support the Nigeria government, we in polio plus committee were reaching more and more children, more and more areas that are hitherto not accessible particularly with the support of the Military. Speaking, UNICEF Deputy Country Representatives Nigeria, Dr. Ironside said that the donation was to complement government effort on polio eradication in Nigeria. She said they are so interested to ensure that Nigeria is certified as polio free country, being the most populous country in Africa, “If Nigeria succeed other African Countries would succeed,” she said.