LAGOS – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has stepped into Kelechi Nwakali’s visa crisis that has stalled his return to Portugal after representing the country in the CAF U-23 Nations Cup qualifier against Libya. The FC Porto midfielder reported for the U-23 duty on 20 March 2019 and has failed to return to Portugal due to his failure to obtain visa. But the NFF, we learnt, has stepped into his case and may return to his base this week. Nwakali has been stranded since he played for the Olympic Eagles in their CAF U-23 Cup of Nations qualifiers away and home against Libya but, after several setbacks in the process of renewing his papers, he has now gained support from NFF. Ademola Olajire, NFF’s director of communications, said officials at The Glasshouse were working hard to secure the visa that would enable Nwakali return to Portugal, where he is on loan from Arsenal of England. “The NFF has been working hard to get his visa sorted as quickly as possible, but it’s taken longer than expected. “We hope it will come out this week especially after the Easter break so as to enable him return to Portugal,” Olajire said. Nwakali has made 16 appearances this season for FC Porto’s reserve side, who play in the Iberian country’s second division league, but he has now missed the club’s last four matches. Ironically, Nwankali was upbeat in joining the Olympic Eagles, as he sees playing in the team as an opportunity to sell himself in the upcoming summer market, following dwindling fortunes at Porto. The 20-year-old, who had previously been on loan from Arsenal at MVV Maastricht and VV Venlo of Holland, is struggling to make his mark in Porto’s B team, despite initially being touted for their main squad. Nwakali’s struggles have not been aided one bit by his inability to leave Nigeria almost a month after playing for the U-23, such that the direction of his already stormy fortunes at Oporto is darker still. Ironically, he had been playing in Portugal on a single-entry visa, hence his need for a renewal of the papers that would allow him re-enter Porto, but the process is taking longer than expected