Lagos – Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State governor-elect on Wednesday described as unfounded, reports that the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos is already mounting pressures on him on those who will form his cabinet ahead of his inauguration on May 29. In the last few days, there have been media reports that Sanwo-Olu is in dilemma as the Mandate Movement, the formidable political structure that assisted him to power and the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) are locked in horns over the list of Commissioners and Special Advisers in the incoming administration without the input of the governor-elect. Some party members also alleged that Bola Tinubu, former Lagos state governor and Sanwo-Olu’s benefactor had directed Rauf Aregbesola, the immediate past Osun State governor to compile the list of qualified party members that would make the cabinet of the governor-elect. It was also alleged that Aregbesola had already penciled down 40 names purely from the Mandate Movement, a decision that did not go down well with the GAC, the party’s highest decision-making organ. Another source said another cause of worry for Sanwo-Olu is that former commissioners who have served during the administration of former governors Bola Tinubu and Babatunde Fashola are lobbying to get back on board in the coming administration. It was rumoured that the development is already unsettling Sanwo-Olu, a thoroughbred technocrat as he is uncomfortable with the crisis playing out between the party leaders. However, speaking in a chat with Daily Independent, Gboyega Akosile, media aide to Sanwo-Olu said his principal is not under any pressure as the talks over the formation of his cabinet are unfounded. He said Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat are busy day and night with strategists working out the development agenda tagged: Project THEME, which encompasses five pillars of development and  will focus on Traffic  Management and Transportation, Health and the Environment, Education and Technology, making Lagos a 21st century economy, as well as Entertainment and tourism hub, among others. According to him “All the rumours are unfounded. It is only natural for people to think that there will be pressures on any governor by party leaders because the governor himself is a product of the people”. “But I can tell you it is a fallacy. There is no pressure from any quarters. Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu is busy working everyday and night in his office working with his technical and strategy team on how best to effectively break his campaign promises into actionable modules”. “He alongside his deputy, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat are working in synergy to ensure that the good people of Lagos get the dividends of democracy as envisioned in their economic blueprint”. “ They are busy everyday with various young men and women from all strata of life on how best they can actualise the clear vision and thoughts they are set out to achieve which has been encapsulated in Project Theme which includes Traffic management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology, Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy, and Entertainment and Tourism. “We have read a lot in the media that pressures are being mounted on him concerning his cabinet but I can tell you that there is nothing of such. Some people just like to make issues out of nothing” he said.