Some members of the Kaduna State Traffic and Environmental Law Enforcement Agency (KASTELEA) on Thursday allegedly killed a commercial motorcyclist and injured two persons in Zaria, Kaduna State. Investigation by a Correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in the area revealed that a team of KASTELEA stationed at Tudun Wada area caused the accident. An eye witness who pleaded anonymity told NAN that the men of KASTELEA pursued an okada man (commercial motorcyclist) from Tudun Wada and trapped him at Alhudahuda junction in Zaria city. “The KASTELEA stopped the panda man but he didn’t stop, then they started chasing the okada man in their vehicle. “They couldn’t get to him until around Alhudahuda u-turn inside Zaria city, they overtook him and pushed him down and crushed him while a rider of Keke Napep also rammed into them. “A woman inside the Keke Napep also sustained some injuries after ramming into the accident, “the eye witness said. NAN reports that the deceased’s name was not yet known as at the time of filing this report, while the injured persons were rushed to the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH), Tudun Wada where they are currently receiving treatment. NAN also reports that the okada riders later protested at to the Emir’s palace in Zaria,where the Emir, Dr Shehu Idris pacified them and asked them to appoint representatives to see him. Addressing the okada riders after a security meeting with the Emir and security agencies, the Council Chairman, Alhaji Aliyu Idris urged the commercial motorcyclists to be calm. “We met with His Royal Highness, security agencies and your representatives on this issue and we resolved that thorough investigation be conducted on what happened. “Whoever is found guilty will be brought to book, I, therefore, urge you to remain calm and pray for the soul of the deceased. “You should please go back and continue with your business, we are still consulting and by the grace of Almighty Allah everything will be OK,” he said. Also contributing, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Tudun Wada, Zaria, Abdullahi Yusuf described peace as essential for socio-economic development in any society. Yusuf urged the okada riders to remain calm and go about with their legitimate duty while awaiting the outcome of the investigation.