ADO-EKITI – A digital innovation tagged ‘AUTOMATE EKITI ‘ is expected to engaged not less than 500,000 youths in Ekiti State. The technology which is being championed by a Non-government Organisation (NGO), Bridgewaters, would also benefit different categories of People’. Tagged: ‘Automate Ekiti’, the project is a digital skills acquisition/empowerment programmes for youths and others in Ekiti. Oye-Ekiti born Mr. Segun Oke, is the brain behind the project. Oke, a digital technology expert, told newsmen in Ado Ekiti yesterday that his plan to automate Ekiti with broad based digital empowerment is borne out of his desire to contribute his qouta to the task of warding off poverty from the continent of Africa and as the saying goes, “charity begins at home, Oke is starting the empowerment programme from Ekiti, his home base”. He explains his mission: “The arm race for human intelligence is certainly heating up and defining the prosperity of nations, so also is the fundamental determinant of wealth shifting from commodity to creativity and innovation. Converging technologies (AI, Internet of things, Robotics, Drones, Block Chain, Crypto Currency, Virtual or augmented reality and rapid advancements in computing power) are multiplying government efficiency, societal productivity and democratization of governance. “It has become increasingly easier for anyone to create solutions to problems once thought insolvable and create massive wealth; resulting in increase in the rate of deployment of new products and services, from finance to voting, healthcare and agriculture to transportation and manufacturing. “Despite the remarkable gains’ technology is bringing to improve human’s productivity and solving global grand challenges, Africa remain stucked in low productive activities. Statistically, over 60% of Africa’s population live in rural and semi-urban communities and in most of these communities, villagers still spend hours to trek to farms, wait for hours by the roadside to catch a bus to a nearby town, wait in rice plantations to drive away invading birds and rodents and lots more. If wealth is a reward for problem solved and few Africans have the capacity and skills to develop solution to these problems, isn’t it obvious why Africans have remained in abject poverty? “. Expressing his worries for youths, Oke said: “In most African countries, youth constitutes the highest percent of the total population and more than 60% of the population live in rural and semi-urban communities, Unfortunately, youths from these communities are socially excluded from the digital revolution the big cities have and they are cut off from the entrepreneurship and innovation ecosystem. “We at Bridgewaters are asking “isn’t there a better approach to accelerate Africa’s development? Isn’t there a way to create abundance from the challenges we face? Can we help make governance more effective?” Are there alternatives to creating employment and raising our productivity? We think there are better alternatives. He then revealed his projection for the future: “5 years from now, we would have equipped about 10,000 Youths in digital skills: Artificial intelligence, Robotics, Programming, Motion Animation, Cyber Security, Project Management. “We have trained 70,000 elderly residents in better use of gadgets and the internet. “We have also trained 20,000 Children in Programing Robotics, Motion Animation and other digital skills, midwifed the establishment of 1000 Starts-up businesses in Ekiti in the next 5years “Transformed job seekers to job creators and created 20,000 jobs, assisted 5,000 youths to get gainful employment in the innovation and technology ecosystem within and outside the country, and spurred the generation of  an estimate of N15billion in revenue from these startups, automated 100 public service/social activities within Ekiti to upscale productivity,” Oke said. Disclosing his plans to actualise the project, he said: “ This is why we are launching ‘Dignovate Africa Fellows’ a digital platform to equip young Africans in semi-urban and rural communities in Africa with digital, innovation and entrepreneurship skills. We are creating an ecosystem for entrepreneurship and innovation across Africa, equipping youths with digital skills to create indigenous and adaptable solutions to the problems Africans face and the world grand challenges”.