Abuja – A coalition of civil society group has stated that it would not be surprised should the Code of Conduct  Tribunal  ( CCT ) finds the suspended former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen guilty of allegations of false declaration of assets tomorrow. The group revealed this at a press conference to condemn the executive assault on judges on Wednesday in Abuja. Addressing journalists on behalf of the group a Public Affairs Analyst,  Fredrick Nwabufo said that Nigerians will not be surprised if Onnoghen is found guilty by the tribunal despite the fact that the court did not have the power to try judicial officers without first fulfilling the condition precedent of obtaining a recommendation to that effect from National Judicial Council  ( NJC ). “We consider it very urgent to call on Nigerians to rise up and resist the deliberate attempt by the Muhammdu Buhari led executive arm of government in Nigeria to intimidate judges, destroy the institution of the judiciary and push us into a fascist state. “We want Nigerians to know that once the judiciary is overwhelmed, suppressed and judges condemned to living in fear of the executive; democracy has become tasteless, sour and inconsequential.” “Unfortunately, the judges cannot defend themselves sufficiently like the members of the public in the face of the rising intimidation and oppression because of their sacred oath of silence. “We, thereby, call on Nigerians to come to the aid of our judges, prevent the storm of tyranny from sweeping away the last hope of the common man” The group noted that in the last three years, the executive arm has brazenly deployed several government agencies to diminish the integrity of the judiciary and render it as malleable as possible to do its bidding. Nwabufor added that over the years the judiciary had stood as the Cornerstone of democracy and even during military administrations, adding that its independence was never subjected to the kind of abuse being witnessing under the Buhari regime. According to him, ” We condemn in totality, the latest assault on Justice Rita Ofllli-Ajumogobia by the EFCC. The commission has no such powers that it can rely upon to arraign judges before the NJC. This is Wicked and evil. “We make bold to say that the legitimacy of the EFCC has been eroded and it has become a mercenary arm of the Buhari-led administration deployed regularly to malign and harass perceived enemies of the executive,” Nwabufo added. The group includes the Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution, Concerned Nigerians, Free Nigeria Movement and Mad Connect