All arrangements have been concluded for Nigeria Book Fair Trust (NBFT) to host the world to the 18th edition of Nigeria International Book Fair which has been scheduled to hold from the 6th to 11th of May, 2019. Announcing this in Lagos on Tuesday was Mr. Gbadega Adedapo Chairman, Nigeria Book Fair Trust (NBFT) and President, Nigerian Publishers Association while addressing a press conference to herald the fair. According to him, the week-long book fair which theme is Optimising New Technology In Book Development And Distribution For The Promotion Of Book In Africa, is slated to hold at the Jelili Adebisi Omotola Hall, University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos. Adedapo hinted that Dr. Hameed Bobboyi, the Executive Secretary of the Universal Basic Education Commission, will deliver the keynote address on the second day of the fair (May 7) All stakeholders in the education and book-related industries around the world are expected to grace the even as participants. Eminent Nigerians such as the Managing Director of Okada Books, Okechukwu Ofili; Executive Director of Sidmach Technologies, Mike Olajide; Vice President of ZTE Technologies Nigeria, Richard Xiang Pingnian and CEO of Spring Time Software,  Chander Shekhar will make the panel of discussants of the chosen theme. Adedapo, who is also the Managing Director of Rasmed Publications Limited, explained that the the international book fair was essential for the promotion of effective reading culture for which the fair has been noted over the years. Meanwhile, according to Adedapo, a new dimension to the annual event is that Nigerian Copyright Commission and the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council will be fully involved in the event this year. He added the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu; the Senate Committee Chairman on Environment, Mrs. Remi Tinubu, and the Vice -Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof  Oluwatoyin Ogundipe (host), among  many others, are expected to grace the fair.