Barrister Kenneth Udeze is the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA) as well as the Legal Adviser of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on issues relating to the recently held general elections, his party’s outing, especially in Imo State, as well as the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as winner of the presidential election, among other issues. Excerpt: Your position, both as a party national chairman and one of the top officials of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) put you in a vintage position in the nation’s polity. Could you briefly give your general impression on the 2019 general elections? Would you say the elections were free, fair and credible? The 2019 general elections could best be described as the most compromised election of all times in Nigeria. I want to use this medium to appreciate the Nigerian electorate for their participation in the elections. Though their votes may not have counted, but they demonstrated their willingness to improve on the past exercise in 2015. But, I guess, majority of them were disappointed with the outcome, just like me. There are outstanding issues from the 2019 elections which exposed the mediocrity in our electoral system. Let us start with the manipulation of election results by the ruling party, the insensitive and uncivilised activities of political leaders in different states, which have the tendency of breaking up the country, the bias activities of the security agencies, timing of the postponement of the Presidential election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), late arrival of election materials and lack of required security to protect polling officers, malfunctioning of the card reader, war-like approach and indeed killings in an election, which is supposed to be a civil exercise, vote buying and announcement of wrong contestants as winners, etc. Let me tell you, we saw all these coming to play when President Muhammadu Buhari and APC failed to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. You can see, our courts are bubbling with activities over the outcome of these elections. Would you say you are impressed with the performance of your party considering the efforts put into the elections, both at federal and state levels? What is the way forward for the party? I want to thank our faithful party members, and indeed Nigerians who voted for my party during the elections. For the first time in the history of my party, Action Alliance, we were able to deliver two members of our party in the National Assembly and eight state House of Assembly members and we are also working towards having some more through the court process, from constituencies where our mandate was stolen, like in Ondo, Taraba and Imo states. So, to me, I think we did well. It is work in progress. However, on the way forward, we will continue on the path we are currently heading, strengthen our internal structure, liaise with more credible institutions in the country and overseas, support our elected representatives to ensure that they deliver the principles of good governance and to continue to recruit more members throughout the country. What is your reaction to the loss of Hon. Uche Nwosu, your party’s governorship candidate in Imo State and son-inlaw to Governor Rochas Okorocha? The task of delivering Ugwumba Uche Nwosu was a responsibility and a commitment we cherished, and we did our best as a party with support of many support groups to ensure that we realised that, but for the unconstitutional declaration of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate. Uche Nwosu’s adoption as our party flag bearer for the governorship position in Imo State was borne out of enthusiasm to enable him realise his political aspiration. But, along the line, so many issues which were not to his benefits came up, and these affected his political calculation. Having looked at the totality of evidence of electoral fraud and malpractices that surrounded the election in Imo State, Action Alliance has decided to test the credibility or otherwise of the election via the tribunal. And I can assure you, as a party, that we will be ready to accept the outcome at the end of the day. Why was President Muhammadu Buhari re-elected for second term, even with the strong opposition mounted against him, especially by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP)? The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is responsible for the announcement of election results, and that is what they did. If you ask me, I will tell you sincerely that I don’t know why he was re-elected. But, we all know that INEC said he won. You are all aware that PDP/CUPP/Atiku has gone to court. I don’t know what the outcome may be. But, it was not a wrong move. Somehow, good lessons will come out of it. What are the chances of Atiku Abubakar defeating President Muhammadu Buhari at the courts since no President-elect in Nigeria has ever lost at the courts? President Buhari was the first to unseat a serving President. He may also be the first serving President to be defeated in court. There is always a first time in everything.  As a Lawyer, I know the dynamics. But, the outcome will be determined based on the presentations of the counsel representing the personalities involved. Let the court decide. Your party is one of the stakeholders at the formation of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). With the 2019 elections over, what do you think will be the future of the coalition? Do you see it remaining strong enough to form a possible merger for the 2023 general elections? Common interest syndrome will be the main factor while giving consideration to the sustenance and future of the CUPP. The group was deliberately formed to enhance the chances of securing a regime change in Nigeria, and the process is still ongoing. I don’t see CUPP dissolving into thin air. I think the same spirit that kept PDM and maybe other political associations together, will be utilised to keep CUPP in place. And if that happens, I can see a solid mega party coming out of this arrangement. But, that will be subject to reviewing the actions of the leadership of the coalition before the next general elections.