Comrade Oladimeji Odeyemi, a security analyst and a counter-terrorism expert is the Convener of the Coalition of Civil Society Groups Against Terrorism in Nigeria. In this interview, he spoke on the conduct of the military during the just concluded 2019 general elections, among other issues. Excerpts: The Nigerian Army has been in the news over the conduct of its soldiers during the 2019 general elections. What is your assessment of the military before, during and after the elections? The role of our military, espe- cially the Nigerian Army, before and during the electioneering process can be described as a timely intervention because the military helped to maintain the integrity of the process. The military performed the role of back up to the police and other sister security agencies. They were mostly drafted in times of extreme hostilities. They displayed an apolitical stance throughout the entire process, but for instances where there are exchanges of gunfire between the military and some armed polit- ical thugs like in Rivers State. The military indeed conducted themselves professionally; it is therefore instructive to state that the role of the military was invaluable and commendable. Do you think the military as it is presently constituted is non-parti- san in the discharge of its duties? In all honesty, if you study the history of the Nigerian Armed Forces in relation to the present leadership of our military, partic- ularly the army, which remains the bedrock of the military, you will agree with me that the mil- itary has done excellently well in being non-partisan, making it possible for us to sustain a respon- sive army which has continually discharged its constitutional roles built on discipline and obedience to civil authorities. This is com- mendable and it clearly indicates the type of leadership currently in charge of our Armed Forces at various levels. The army under the leadership of General Tukur Buratai has not only enhanced professionalism, it has also in an unprecedented manner, built confidence with the non-partisan civil populace, who are the major- ity under our democracy. The present crop of the mili- tary leadership as constituted is the best thing that could have ever happened to this nation at this point in time. The question of the military being partisan does not in any way arise because of the professional display of their atti- tude before, during and after the 2019 electoral process. They gave the process the credibility need- ed to adjudge it as a free and fair election. The carnage the nation would have witnessed was curbed by the presence of the military in most states of the federation. There have been reports of the activities of the Boko Haram in parts of the North East. Don’t you think that is a reflection of the position of things? I can unequivocally say that the Nigerian Army under the leadership of General Tukur Buratai has displayed the most professional attitude and acts in the methods and tactics of han- dling the gradual progressive decimation of the insurgents in the North East. In your estimation as a secu- rity expert, what is the extent by which the Nigerian Army under Buratai has been able to decimate the insurgents in the North East? It has often times been said by not only our security agencies but also by every other key stakehold- ers within the security sector and the civil society that winning a war on terror is not a tea party. Counter-terrorism wars are not like football matches which are only played for 90 minutes. The reality in the North East is that since the advent of the current administration, our country has been able to reduce the Boko Ha- ram insurgency to more of a se- cret cult, a clear difference from what was obtainable in the past when Boko Haram constituted itself as a parallel government within our country. This was a great gain and a major achievement in the war against terrorism in the north- east. All Nigerians have to do is remember when Boko Haram was operating freely in the na- tion’s capital, Abuja and also occupying almost 14 Local Gov- ernment Areas in seven states of the federation; bombing, burning and openly hitting hard targets, mounting untold number of daily attacks. The Boko Haram terror that has now been reduced to occasional suicide attacks. A Boko Haram that does not stand to fight, but only chooses soft targets and resorting to guerilla tactics, only shows the proof of concept that says, Boko Haram does not again have the ability to wage a war, but only to duck. The Nigerian Army under Gen- eral Buratai has for the past four years been saddled with a three pronged war, in which it has made ground breaking successes and modest progress in tackling the herdsmen / farmers clashes. The third one which is perhaps the most trying one, the political- ly sponsored killings, mostly in the Middle-Belt region. And here is where the Chief of Army Staff, Lt General Buratai must be com- mended in the way he has been handling a totally unconven- tional war in which communal communication, interactions, community service, community development, youth elevation, provision of amenities to the lo- cals and prompt response have been the hallmark of the new and different approach to handling this peculiar war within. As you are aware, the Nigerian Army has conducted ‘Operation Last Hold’ within the theater of war, meaning we are safely now in the last stages of the War Against Terror. The Army under General Buratai will continue on the path of visible victory until terrorists and terrorism are completely an- nihilated. This is how it is done anywhere and everywhere there is terror. It is a gradual progres- sive trajectory rather than a one- time ending to a war. There are calls in some quarters that Buratai should be removed by Pres- ident Muhammadu Buhari. Do you think such calls are justified? It is an unpatriotic call by some disgruntled elements with- in the nation and their foreign collaborators. It is a straight plan to make the nation lose what we have gained due to the gallantry and bravery of our Army in the North East. The insurgent had their flags hoisted in almost 14 Local Government before Gener- al Buratai was appointed. Now, Boko Haram cannot lay claim to any territory within the territo- rial space of Nigeria. Our Presi- dent is a professional soldier and with his wealth of experience and knowledge, realises that General Buratai is the best man for the job now. With the present situation in the country, the call for removal or replacement of the Chief of Army Staff is misplaced.