ABUJA – As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), an investment company based in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has made a donation of four units of three-bedroom accommodation to shelter over 200 orphans recently displaced by the Department of Development Control. Mr. Umar Abdullahi, the Chief Executive Officer of Cosgrove Investment Limited, while making the donation of the four units flat said the donation was in line with the company’s policy of caring for the less privileged in the society. Abdullahi, however, revealed that since the news broke out a couple of weeks ago, the firm has been making arrangements to see that the displaced children are accommodated in a decent environment for a reasonable period of time, stressing that the children will be sheltered for a period of one year by the company. He said, “This is not the first time Cosgrove has embarked on humanitarian service as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). We have provided educational service to the less privileged in the society and just recently we constructed 1.5 kilometres road in Katampe District in Abuja to ease movement for residents of the area. “So, when this happened, we felt we should come to their aid to cushion the effect of these affected children. And we will continue to render such humanitarian services whenever the need arises.” Responding, Sir Christian Ohaa, the FCT Permanent Secretary, commended the firm for coming to the aid of the FCT Administration in time of need. Ohaa also called on other firms operating in the Federal Capital Territory to emulate Cosgrove Investment Limited in assisting the less privileged in the society. It would be recalled that an orphanage home housing a school and a church known as Divine Words of Jesus Christ Church occupied by a widow and over one hundred and fifty orphans including infants, was reduced to rubles by bulldozers of the Department of Development Control of the Federal Capital Territory Administration. This was in spite of the fact that the said property is still entangled in litigation.