A head of the forthcoming general elections, the RMB Family Political Group has commenced mobilisation of support for the candidates of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Surulere area of Lagos State, with donation of various campaign materials including six branded vehicles and 10, 000 each of posters and handbills. The group, which is under the leadership of a former Chief Whip of Lagos State House of Assembly, Dr Abdurrazaq Balogun, said the development became imperative in view of the need to facilitate the campaign process of APC, adding that the candidates put forward by the party were genuinely committed to the development of the country. Speaking at the annual New Year thanksgiving ceremony of the group held at RMB Secretariat in Aguda, Surulere, Balogun said it was important for members to go all out and mobilsze support for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and Senator representing Lagos Central in the Upper Legislative Chamber, Oluremi Tinubu,  and election of Babajide Sanwo-Olu as the Governor of the State, as well as all the candidates of APC come February 16 and March 2 respectively. Addressing over 500 party leaders, members and various groups at the gathering, Balogun said: “This is the time for party loyalists to remain focused on the job ahead. We must remember that our unity as people of the same party is non-negotiable and we must get all our candidates elected or re-elected at the coming polls to consolidate on the democratic gains that the people have been enjoying from APC.” Balogun, who is a chieftain of APC in Surulere, specifically urged all party members to be faithful in their dealings within the party, and to also come out en mass to show support to all the candidates of the party from federal to the local level in order to attract more federal and state projects into the constituency. Also speaking, APC House of Representatives candidate for Surulere Constituency II, Hon Lanre Okunlola appealed to his constituents to show love within the rank and file, adding that such would go a long way to help build a strong foundation for APC in order to achieve victory at the 2019 general elections. On her part, member representing Surulere Constituency II at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon Mosunmola Sangodara profusely commended members for their steadfastness and zeal towards the party’s affairs, just as she admonished members engaged in anti-party activities to change their ways, as such was counterproductive in the quest to achieving electoral victory. Besides, she showered accolades on the RMB Family for being a reliable, dependable and result-oriented group over the years, adding: “Strategy is key to achieving electoral victory, and this trait has been the hallmark of RMB Family for years.” Also, Chief Agoro, a former chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who recently decamped to the APC due to the unflinching admiration for Dr Balogun’s style of leadership, said he has commenced mobilizing people within the community and his supporters who followed him to the APC to vote for Sanwo-Olu, as well as other APC candidates. Women and youth leaders in Itire-Ikate and Coker-Aguda also promised to work assiduously for the success of the APC at the polls.