ASABA – Former Governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori has stated that the re-election of Senator Ifeanyi Okowa as Governor of the state is particularly an Anioma challenge. He confirmed on Friday in Oghara, Ethiope West Local Government Area of the State during the Okowa 2019 Campaign Flag off,  boasting that there is no cause for alarm over the re-election of the Governor since his performance will sell him. Ibori stated that for Governor Okowa to have flagged off his campaign in Oghara in 2015 and again in 2019 is enough to hand over the leadership of the party to him again to work for the victory of all the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidates. “I have always told people that Governor Okowa knows what to do at any point in time. I have handed over to him the leadership and he shall be victorious. People will support you, God will not disappoint you, anybody planning evil against you shall fail. “I am solidly behind you in prayers, politically, you will bring good things to the state and the party. You are competent, capable, intelligence, have the capacity to deserve another term, pleased with you to the extent that people do not need to be converted.” Ibori, who warned that the peace and tranquility of the state is paramount, pleaded that Deltans should not allow anybody to deceive them just as he said they should be peaceful. “In the course of your campaign be peaceful, in the course of your campaign don’t find troubles but sell your propaganda to the people. You should not encourage violence. Despite that we are not lazy, opposition parties should not look for PDP trouble too.” Governor Okowa, in his address assured that he has done well to deserve victory from Deltans, maintaining that before the election date, All Progressive Congress (APC), must have vanished in the state. While stating that most of the APC leaders in the state have already crossed to PDP, he said those remaining in the party have eyes but failed to see the transformation going on in the state. “It is good to come for debate. I offer myself. They should not run. It is not just enough to be Governor. It is not by month, by using thugs to scatter elections or to run after election and come again every four years.” “We don’t want strangers, they can be born in Delta but they are strangers. They rely on thugs and police to win elections. Delta’s should not be afraid since the state is peaceful. “Just carry the message from house to house, door to door. Before the election date everybody shall be PDP,” Okowa assured. Barr Kingsley Esiso, Delta PDP Chairman, while presenting flags to the National and State Assembly elections, appealed to them to work hard to their capacity and not be a disgraceful representative of the state, who is known for thuggery and stealing maze. Earlier, the Director General of Okowa Campaign Organisation, Hon. Funkekeme Solomon said that power rotation in the state would not be truncated. He said that the principle of power rotation across the three senatorial districts as agreed by the PDP and abided by has brought about a sense of security, peace, unity and economy stability to the state. He said it would be unfair to kick against a candidate of Delta North being in the seat of power who with the shortest time has proven to be a good ambassador not only to the party but Delta State at large. While analysing the achievements of Sen. Okowa from infrastructural development, health care provision, job creation, agricultural development and to sports, he said that the governor, according to Nigeria constitution and as a citizen of Delta State is eligible to take the gubernatorial position. Funkekeme said the rally was to notify the electorates of his promises kept such as the completed massive road projects, the development of the stadium which has brought about the attention of international media to the state. He went further to say that over 1000 jobs has been created through the effort of the state government in which every community in the state are beneficiaries. He admonished the general public to endeavour to get their Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) and ensure that they vote Okowa to office in the upcoming election. He also said Okowa has been a good ambassador who has kept his promise, and that he has also been faithful in ensuring that there is peace and security in the State. He said the campaign will continue after a short break at Orerokpe in Okpe Local government area and Effurun in Uvwie local Government, Warri in Warri South Wednesday on the 9th of January, saying Thursday will be for Isoko North Local Government, Ughelli North and Isoko South Local Government. The final leg will continue on the 15th of January with Aniocha North, Oshimili , Ndokwa West and Ndokwa East, Ukwuani,  Ethiope East, Patani, Burutu, Ika North East, Ika South Warri South West and Udu. He further said the information is subject to change as the campaign is preparing for elections for Presidency, National Assembly, Governorship and State House Assembly.