OSOGBO – In preparation towards the next month’s Presidential and National Assembly elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has embarked on distribution of insensitive election materials to all the local government councils in the country. In Osun State, the insensitive materials were brought in several trailer loads to INEC office in Osogbo, Osun State capital, while arrangements were made to distribute same to each of the 30 local government councils of the state. It was further gathered that the materials on arrival at headquarters of each local governments were taken to banks and other special locations under tight security provided by both police and men of the Department of State Security (DSS). When contacted, Olusegun Agbaje the State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), confirmed that the commission was fully prepared for the coming general elections, saying all arrangements had been concluded to have all materials for the exercise. He said the commission, both at the state and national headquarters, would leave no stone unturned towards ensuring the conduct of very free, fair and credible election in 2019. Agbaje, who spoke to newsmen on the preparation of INEC, said the commission was seriously monitoring the ongoing campaign by political parties, trained REC’s, Administrative Secretaries, HOD’s, State Trainers, Election Officers, Assistant Election Officers and others on the implementation of the election management support centre. The commission had been sourcing for ad hoc staff from the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), federal tertiary institutions and other federal establishments, establish NYSC Voter Education Ambassadors Community Development groups that were assisting the body to conduct voter education at the grassroots level. The commission, he said also, has engaged various transport unions such as NURTW, RTEAN and stock piling of ballot boxes and cubicles in readiness for the elections. Agbaje said further that INEC had reactivated the operations Situation Room at the state office by REC to directly receive complaints from stakeholders and the general public. He urged the political parties’ leaders, contestants and their followers to shun acts that could hinder the smooth conduct of the elections, such as the use of thugs to disrupt the electoral process, snatching of ballot boxes, intimidation of election officials , vote buying, discouraging the use of the smart card reader among other electoral vices.