AFIS KAREEM LAGOS – For Master Divine Etetim Willie, an SS1 student of West African Peoples Institute, (WAPI), Calabar, Cross River State, though in his teens, his future like many others had been rather bleak. Curiously, it was due to no other reason than the fact that the wherewithal to actualize his dream of using the platform of education to fulfill his dream of a great future was lacking. In fact, that he was able to get to his present class was a miracle because his path from the beginning had been filled with thorns due to his poor background. Though brilliant, the thought of being sent away from school daily agitated his mind because he was not sure where the resources would come from. Coming from a state that has many young children hawking on the streets of Lagos or Abuja or serving as house help, his prayer must have been that he should not end up in this group. As if God was listening to his prayers, hope eventually came his way as the news of a scholarship scheme for indigent students filtered into the school last year. Many of the students especially the indigent ones never believed what they heard as what they were told was unprecedented in the history of WAPI, which was founded in 1938. However, whatever doubts they had faded when the school principal, Mrs. Mercy Etim confirmed the authenticity of the news to the students and teachers. She told them that the scholarship which was sponsored by the school’s 1997 set would be awarded to twelve students in junior and secondary classes and would also cover payment of WAEC and NECO fees, and explained that this was unlike past scholarship schemes enjoyed in the school which only saw beneficiaries through their secondary education. Etim, however, added a caveat that the would-be beneficiaries, though indigent, must possess sound moral and academic records. The news was like sweet music to the ears of Divine, who though was qualified on the two fronts, still prayed to make the list. Eventually, the school set the ball rolling to pick the twelve deserving students and a list of awardees was made public late last year. Those who were lucky in the JSS category included, Idongesit Francis Eton, Elisha Samuel Offiong, Cletus Ekwere Edem, Favour Thompson Okon. Awardees in the senior secondary category were Otu Archibvong Nyong, Divine Ikechukwu Amadi, Sunday Joseph, John Ekpenyong and Andem Etim Effiong. As the gates of the school were flung open for the formal presentation of the scholarships on December 29, 2018 anxiety was boldly written on the faces of the beneficiaries and their parents. However, all that faded much later as beneficiaries were called one after the other to receive their scholarships.