Prince Marcus Agubataofia is the Chairman, Enugu State Indigenes in Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Lagos State and former Deputy Chairman, Ndigbo in Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He spoke to JOY ANIGBOGU on the continued stay of the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, as Senator representing Enugu West Senatorial Zone and Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s return to Enugu State Government House. You are a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Why do you want Senator Ike Ekweremadu, voted out? I am a human being with conscience first before becoming a member of the PDP and I feel that the first duty of man should be to do what is right .To satisfy his innermost being, which is his conscience. It is based on this that I am saying that Chief Ike Ekeremadu should not return to the senate for the record fifth term. Power has a capacity to become too dictatorial if it does not go round. If you look at Enugu State governorship elections, you will discover that it has always been very peaceful. This is because equity and justice are always at work. No zone has tried to dominate governorship. It started with Dr Chimaroke Nnamani from Enugu East in 1999 to Sullivan Chime from Enugu West in 2007. Today, it is in Enugu North under Chief Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. Unfortunately, in the senate, Chief Ike Ekweremadu and his handlers have refused to leave the office. He has been there since 1999m while a town like Udi has not produced a senator since the foundation of Nigeria. Let us call a spade a spade irrespective of our party affiliations. It is not fair. I have nothing personal against his person. But, I hate monopoly because it is even against the law of nature. All I am saying is, enough of Ekweremadu because he has turned to another Mugabe in Enugu West and even affecting our psyche. It is not good because variety is the spice of life. He could have remained there based on performance. Or, don’t you think that he has been performing while on the seat? How can you compare just one thing somebody has been doing if you have not tried another person to enable you have a good assessment of who is better? This is one of the defeatist philosophies that is keeping us where we are today, the devil I know  is better than the angel that I don’t know, which is one of the instruments of  monopoly. Monopolists are always afraid of competition  hence they don’t  give room for comparison. If he is there based on performance, how are we sure that the next person would not perform better than him if he or she is given the opportunity? If he feels that there is no other person in the whole of Enugu West that can do better than him in the senate, let him honourably step aside so that we can try another person and if the person fails to perform well, we would then come back to him on our knees with apologies to continue till eternity. What advice would you give to Enugu West indigenes in respect the forthcoming election? My advice for Enugu West indigenes is that they should know that peace is the grandmother of progress, and can only be possible if there is equity and justice. Enugu West indigenes should borrow a leaf from the other parts of the country like Benue and Imo States where people who wanted to be senators for life were reminded that they were not the sun that other planets must rotate around. After going to the senate for four consecutive terms, Benue people told Senator David Mark that enough was enough, that he should step aside for others. The same thing was done to Chief Arthur Nzeribe when he tried to make Imo West senatorial seat his birthright. I also want to use this medium to appeal to our traditional rulers in Enugu West to see equity and justice as vital in handling political related issues. They should know that whatever they are doing now would have effect on posterity. They should tell their subjects to mobilise support and vote for Barr. Juliet Ibekaku-Nwangwu, who incidentally hails from Udi, and it is so unfortunate that the area has not produced a senator since independence. The opportunity to make amends is now. I want to passionately appeal to the deputy senate president, as a human being. He should try to be conscious of what history and posterity would remember him for. It would not be good if he would be remembered as somebody who monopolised power. Being a member of PDP, why do you support the APC against your party member, Ekweremadu? It is all about equity and justice and not party affiliation. Ekweremadu should try to learn from others who have come, played their parts and left the stage for others to come and play their own part as well. When you consider the fact that Senator Ekweremadu is one of those crying against the marginalisation of the Igbo by other regions of the country, you will understand why we need to talk about the issue. He is an advocate of equity and justice at the national level; one wonders why he is doing exactly the opposite in his own domain. It is definitely not right. We should be practising what we preach. I don’t really know what his mind might be telling him, but the truth is that he must not be living in denial. If he feels that what the Nigerian state has been doing to the Igbo people by monopolising and dominating power is not good, he should not do it to the people of Enugu West senatorial zone. It is always good to look inwards before looking outwards. How do you see the governorship election in Enugu State? I stand by Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi any time. He will always have my support. He is a man I respect. He has performed beyond everybody`s imagination. That is also one of the beauties of rotation of power. If Enugu East or West has tried to monopolise power, we would not have known of a Transformer-in-Chief like Ugwuanyi. In the same vein, those who feel that Chief Ekweremadu is performing wonders in the senate and should therefore continue till eternity should know that there are also other Ekweremadus  in other parts of Enugu West who are waiting for opportunities to show what they can do. The problem is that they are being denied the opportunity to showcase themselves. Governor Ugwuanyi  is a man of peace and you know  what the Bible says about the peace makers. They shall be called the sons of God. Today, Enugu is in God`s hand and we are reaping the fruit because it is only a land that is `seedful` that can be fruitful because things don’t just sprout. They must first take root. Enugu State is fruitful today because we have a governor that has made  the land `seedful`. I have no iota of doubt that Enugu State indigenes would reward him with a landslide victory in 2019 because he deserves it. I am sure those competing against him just want  to upgrade their resumes as governorship candidates and nothing more.