ABUJA – Lady Azuka Azinge, the Acting Registrar-General of the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), has said that through the implementation of its Business Incentive Strategy it had been able to register 39,074 Business Names between October and November 2018. Lady Azinge revealed this in Lagos during a customers’/stakeholders’ forum. The forum is a periodic interactive session between the management of the commission and its stakeholders to enhance service delivery. The commission had under its Business Incentive Strategy, reduced the cost of Business Name registration from N10,000 to N5,000 for a period of three months covering October 1 to December 31 2018. A statement by Mr. Moses Adaguusu, Deputy Director, Public Affairs in the CAC, explained that in furtherance of the Commission’s effort to deepen the benefits of its reform initiatives and as support for the growth of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) the Federal Government had recently extended the window for registration of Business Names at the reduced cost of N5,000.00 by 90 days. To this end, Adaguusu, said the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment had approved a  three month extension of the BIS for registration of MSMEs from 1st January to March, 2019. The BIS is aimed at creating a window for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises to formalise their businesses so that they can own corporate account with banks, have access to loans, grants and other government interventions. She said, “Only recently, the Commission extended the BIS to encourage small business operators to formalise their businesses by registering same with the Commission. “During the initial three months of the BIS registration, activities increased tremendously. For the months of October and November 2018, a total of 39,074 business names were registered.” “The Commission remains resolute in reviewing its processes regularly.” On the amendment of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, the CAC boss said that the Commission is positive that the amendment bill would be passed this month. She added, “Work is at advanced stage to amend the CAMA in collaboration with the National Assembly. The amendment is aimed at enhancing the Commission’s supervisory and regulatory powers. “The ultimate goal of the Commission is to make CAC a world class companies’ registry providing excellent registration and regulatory services.” She explained that the commission was working with Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council to improve the business environment and make Nigeria a progressively easier place for business to start and thrive. The CAC boss noted that the deployment of the user-friendly Company Registration Portal has enabled customers to have on-line access to the services of the commission from the comfort of their offices and homes using different electronic payment platforms. She gave other reforms being implemented by the Commission to include digitalisation of legacy records, full decentralisation of operations, and integration of the CRP to stamp duty portal of the Federal Inland Revenue Service, among others.