Lagos – The Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) said it would embark on a new strike beginning from January 31, unless the Federal Government accedes to its demands over welfare and other issues. In a letter to the Minister of Labour and Employment, JOHESU said it had decided to embark on this strike after the refusal of the government to address its demand since the suspension of the industrial action by the union since May 30, 2018. Members of JOHESU are demanding   the implementation of the adjusted Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CONHESS), the payment of specialist allowances to deserving health professionals, payment of arrears of the skipping of CONHESS 10, increase of age of health workers from 60 to 65 years and the review of the composition of the Boards of Federal Health Institutions (FHIs). The letter was signed by the leaders of the several unions that make up JOHESU among whom are Biobelemoye Josiah, national presidents of the Medical and Health Workers Unions (MHWUN); Adeniji A.A, national president of the Nigerian Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives (NANNM); Dr. B.A. Akintola, president of the Senior Staff Association of Universities’ Teaching Hospitals Research Institutes and Associated Institutions (SSAUTHRIAI); the General Secretary of SSAUTHRIAI, Akinade M.O. among others. The Letter stated, “In view of the apparent indifference of government to permanently resolve these lingering issues some of which have persisted for over five years now, JOHESU,  by this letter notifies the Federal Government of its resolve to resume its suspended industrial action by Thursday 31 January, 2019 if the issues in dispute are not resolved.” JOHESU members include five registered associations including the SSAUTHRIA, NANNM, NASU,  MHWUN and NUAHP, the five of which have formed JOHESU. It will be recalled that the national body of JOHESU declared the 2018 strike on midnight of Tuesday, April 17, after its efforts to get the Federal Government to meet its demand failed, hence, prompting about 90 per cent of the health workforce, all of whom are members of JOHESU to proceed on the strike actions.