ABUJA – Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, the Director General, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), on Monday attributed the high rate of drug abuse in Nigeria to the removal of the agency from the port from 2011 to 2018. Adeyeye made this known when she played host to the Chairman of Presidential Advisory Committee on Elimination of Drug Abuse, Brigadier-General Buba Marwa (retd), and other members of the committee in her office in Abuja. Adeyeye said that NAFDAC’s removal from the port has led to the destruction of the lives of Nigerian youths with Tramadol, Cosine and other substances, saying, two generations of Nigerian youths are being wiped out due to drug addiction. She said, “When NAFDAC was removed from the port from 2011 to 2018, I asked myself when you remove an agency that is supposed to oversee the importation of illicit drug in the port, then we will get our answer and part of the answer we got was the destruction of Nigerian youths, during that period. “If we plot the graph of NAFDAC not being at the port in 2011 -2018, we would find out that during that period when NAFDAC was not at the port, the drug addiction among our youths increased. But thank God President Muhammadu Buhari in 2018 reversed the trend by returning NAFDAC to the port and since we got there, there had been good changes.” She, however, assured Nigerians that the agency was ready to work round the clock,  to intercept any illegal drugs being imported. “For instance in September 2018, I got a note that 31 containers of tramadol were coming into Nigeria, I thought it was a fluke but after a thorough investigations I discovered it was true. So we started monitoring the containers and the ships; the containers were labeled bounded terminals, which means we were not supposed to have seen it at first; we were able to intercept 21 containers, and out of the 21 containers, only two had building materials, but all of them were labeled building materials. She added, “When they know that port was hot they started turning around the rest of the containers, they went to a West African country we waited for them there. That West African country took over the containers and the others started going to another West African country and our staff started tracking them online. They got to another West African country and that country sent them back to Singapore.  They are back now and we are going to impound the four containers. We are here because of our children,” she stressed. She said all hands must be on desk to eliminate drug addiction among Nigerian youths, adding that “President Muhaamadu Buhari has taken it upon himself to eliminate drug abuse in Nigeria. We must have passion for what we are doing. I have said it many times, a country cannot be greater than its youths, and we have lost about two generations to drug addiction. We must fight for our children and for their future”. Meanwhile, Brigadier-General Buba Marwa (retd), the Chairman, Chairman of Presidential Advisory Committee on Elimination of Drug Abuse, lamented the high rate of drug addiction among Nigerian youths, adding that it was imperative for all stakeholders to fight the menace. “It is very sad that two generations of our youths are being wiped out, hence we must do something urgent,” adding that President Muhammadu Buhari was really concerned and wants us to bring about solution to this terrible state of affairs in the country as far as drug addiction is concerned.