The Nigerian Army on December 28, 2018,  announced that it would begin a nationwide Operation Python Dance 3. Python Dance (first called Egwu Eke by the military in Igbo language), is a special military operation originally meant to rid strategic and specific areas of hoodlums and criminals. For those who do not know, the python is a dangerous serpent that maims, kills and even swallows animals, including humans, that cross its path. The Army, in carrying out its Operation Python Dance as it has done twice in the South East, always leaves tales of deaths, sorrow and woes in its trail. Prior to this nationwide operation, the Army had carried out the Python Dance twice in the South East. The second was controversial as it was targeted at members of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) known to be non-violent group. However, this time around, the Nigerian Army announced plans to commence Exercise Egwu Eke 111, otherwise known as Python Dance, in all parts of the country to check security challenges during the 2019 general elections. Nigerians are in the midst of political campaigns which will terminate with the general elections in February and early March. Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), in making the announcement, stated at a flag-off ceremony in Maiduguri, Borno State, that the exercise would run from January 1, 2019 till February 28, 2019, which effectively covers the period of the 2019 elections. Buratai’s speech: “I am delighted to be here in Maiduguri today to flag off Exercise EGWU EKE III. “EGWU EKE” is an Igbo phrase meaning “PYTHON DANCE”. Exercise EGWU EKE I and II took place in year 2016 and 2017 respectively in the South Eastern Region of our country. It yielded positive results in checkmating the security challenges being witnessed in the region then. “Exercise EGWU EKE III is significant because for the first time it will be conducted simultaneously across the country. It is also a reassurance of the resolve of the Nigerian Army and indeed the entire Armed Forces of Nigeria as well as other security agencies to ensure that law and order is maintained as we approach the forthcoming 2019 General Elections. “The Nigerian Army will continue to conduct internal security operations in combating criminality and other security challenges in the country, in line with its constitutional mandate of Military Aid to Civil Authority. “As the build up to the 2019 general elections gathers momentum, an upsurge of security challenges such as stockpiling of arms by criminal groups, formation of ethnic militias and violence induced by political activities has been observed. “These challenges coupled with other security threats across the country such as terrorism, militancy, kidnapping and banditry portend that dissident groups and criminal elements could cash in on the situation to perpetrate large scale violence before, during and after the 2019 general elections. “Drawing from the my vision ‘To have a Professionally Responsive NA in the Discharge of its Constitutional Roles’, the NA troops need to be prepared and equipped with requisite skills in order to professionally and effectively respond to these challenges and security threats in collaboration with Nigerian Police and other paramilitary organisation. “The successes recorded so far in all conducted Nigerian Army level exercises are fulfilling both training and ops objectives of the Nigerian Army. I also believe Exercise EGWU EKE III, with its mandate of combating the upsurge of security challenges as we approach the 2019 General Elections will be a success. “Let me use this opportunity to call on the good people of our great nation Nigeria to provide our men and women in uniform adequate support, especially timely information, to enable them deliver on the mandate of Exercise EGWU EKE III. “I want to also reaffirm the commitment of the Nigerian Army in the fight against terrorism and insurgency in our country. I wish you all well, as we flag off Exercise EGWU EKE III which will be conducted across the 6 geopolitical zones of the country from 1 Jan to 28 Feb 19.” However, since the announcement and commencement of the exercise, Nigerians have been wondering if the idea of staging Operation Python Dance nationwide in an election year a good idea. PDP Kicks Expectedly, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) through its Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) rejected the planned introduction of nationwide Military ‘Operation Python Dance’ ahead of the 2019 general elections. The party described it as a ploy by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to use the military in rigging the elections. Kola Ologbondiyan, PPCO Director Media and Publicity, said in a statement that the main aim of the operation was to  unleash heavy security presence to intimidate, harass and instil fear in voters in PDP strongholds across the country and pave way for the “allocation of fictitious votes” to President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC. The PPCO, which said the APC was afraid of losing the polls, added that information available to it showed that some bigwigs in the ruling party were already perfecting rigging plans with compromised staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He said: “Our investigation shows that part of the plot is to use the military operation as a subterfuge to unleash heavy security presence to intimidate, harass and instill fear in voters in PDP strongholds across the country and pave the way for the allocation of fictitious votes to President Buhari and the APC.” Nationwide Operation Python Dance Will Heighten  Tension, Anxiety In Nigeria – YPP Scribe Nze Bonaventure Duruigwe Ibeji is secretary of the Young Progressive Party (YPP) in Imo State. According to him, “I am not in support of the proposed nationwide Operation Python Dance because it will heighten tension and anxiety in the land now that the elections are around the corner. Why have they not done it before this time? “You know that the people dread soldiers and so when they see them on the road in  large numbers, marching and chanting songs in their uniforms, they will begin to  tremble because of the already existing apprehension among the people. I will advise that they postpone the exercise until after the elections.” It Is Needless Militarisation Of Nigeria – AA Chair Barrister Kenneth Udeze is the National Chairman, Action Alliance (AA) and Legal Adviser, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). He said: “The nationwide Operation Python Dance will raise concerns of a needless militarised Nigeria. It raises more questions than it provides answers as Nigeria is struggling with insecurities. Why not go and ‘dance’ at the areas where we have security issues? “Egwu Eke, the Igbo phrase (translated into Python Dance), was first launched in the South East in 2016 to combat criminal activities. In 2017, they came back with it again as Egwu Eke 11. For all intent and purposes, it is a controversial programme. “The IPOB and NUJ Abia State were attacked unjustly by soldiers, thereby reducing the scheme to a mere political project to cow opponents, especially Egwu Eke 111. They want to do it all through the country at a time we are preparing for elections, from January 1 to February 28. You can easily draw your conclusion.” It Is Worst Decision Ever Taken By Military – IYC President Barrister Roland Oweilaemi Pereotubo is the President, Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide, and President General, All Ethnic Nationalities in the Niger Delta. He said: “He said the Military’s nationwide ‘Operation Python Dance’ is the worst decision ever taken by the military. There is no need to carry out nationwide military drill except it has an ulterior motive. The military will be over stretched and it will end up inviting more troubles for the country. “Every military drill for now should be concentrated in the North East. You have war to fight and you want to ferment trouble in some other peaceful regions? I don’t know how this asinine reasoning made sense to the initiators of this ill-conceived and self-destructive plan. “If the purpose of deploying military to the entire country in the name of ‘Operation Python Dance’ is to achieve political aim, then the present government will be putting the country at risk. Such action will beget civil unrests and it will spell doom for the nation. “Those who think that they can rig the 2019 elections with the aid of the military should have a rethink of their action because Nigerians are ready to resist any move to subvert the will of the people.” Ploy To Create Panic For APC To Rig 2019 Polls – EU Boss Hon. Charles Anike, National President, Eastern Union (EU), a political pressure group for the people of Old Eastern Region, said: “Operation Python Dance for what? Are we fighting war in Nigeria? All these are ploys to create panic and tension across the country so that the APC can perfect its rigging plans in the 2019 general elections. “This APC-led Federal Government is so confused and has totally run out of ideas on what the future holds for the party and its candidates in the coming elections. That is what happens when someone squanders his or her opportunity and goodwill. “We are waiting for the military and their Operation Python Dance. If they like, let them declare curfew or state of emergency across the country from now. Nigeria will never end with the APC government. In a matter of months, the APC will be history.” Rights Activist Goes To Court Chief Malcom Omirhobo, a Lagos-based rights campaigner, has asked a Federal High Court in Abuja to declare as unlawful and unconstitutional, the declaration of Operation Python Dance across the nation. The applicants, in the suit labelled FHC/ABJ/CS/01/2019, are Omirhobo and Board of Incorporated Trustees of Malcom Omirhobo Foundation. Joined as respondents are the Attorney General of the Federation, the National Assembly, the Inspector General of Police, the Nigeria Police Council, Police Affairs Commission and the various Nigerian Service Chiefs. The applicant is seeking the court’s declaration that the commencement of a nationwide Operation Python Dance with effect from January 1 to February 28, with the military to tackle internal security challenges during the conduct of the country’s general elections is illegal and undemocratic. According to him, it violates the fundamental rights of the applicant, as well as those of the Nigerian public, to life, dignity of human person, personal liberty, family and private life, freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and association, and freedom of movement. The applicant wants the court to declare that it is the primary responsibility of the police force to tackle internal security challenges such as kidnapping, terrorism, militancy and proliferation of arms, and not that of the Armed Forces or military. He seeks a declaration that the use of the military to perform the functions of the Police in the conduct of the 2019 elections is illegal, unlawful and unconstitutional. The applicant, is therefore, seeking a court’s order, compelling the respondents to respect the fundamental rights of the applicant as well as those of Nigerians, by allowing the Police Force to perform its statutory role of enforcement and maintenance of law and order. He seeks an order that the respondent clears off the military from the public spheres and stops forthwith, the use of Operation Python Dance in the conduct of the 2019 general elections. Omirhobo also wants an order compelling the police to take charge of the enforcement and maintenance of law and order in their various commands, before, during, and even after the general elections. Besides, the applicant seeks an order of perpetual injunction, restraining the respondents from using the military to perform the duties of the police, in the enforcement and maintenance of law and order, before, during, and after the conduct of the 2019 general elections. He seeks an order for the enforcement of his fundamental rights, and those of the Nigerian public, to life, dignity of human person, personal liberty, as well as private and family life. No date has been fixed for hearing of the suit. NDF Condemns Moves To Stop Operation The National Democratic Front (NDF), a civil society organisation, has condemned moves to stop the proposed nationwide Operation Python Dance III by the Nigerian Army, saying it is important to separate politics from real issue that would better the nation. Dr Bolaji Abdulkadir, NDF Secretary General, said the action is aimed at truncating democratic process. Abdulkadir, said: “While we cannot question his right and freedom of expression, we are however at a loss as to how putting measures to ensure smooth and peaceful elections has constituted into an infringement of rights and privileges as canvassed by Malcolm Omirhobo. “It is our considered opinion that since the Nigerian Army is constitutionally mandated to protect the territorial integrity of Nigeria, the introduction of Operation Python Dance 3 is not only in line with its constitutional mandate, but also a welcome development given the intended outcome of ensuring peaceful general elections. “This much the Nigerian Army has stated for the introduction of Operation Python Dance 3 which is to tackle ‘challenges coupled with other security threats across the country such as terrorism, militancy, kidnapping, and banditry,’ and also, criminal groups and elements planning violence before, during and after the 2019 general elections. “The NDF, as an organisation, is not in the habit of joining issues with individuals whose known antecedent is to cause a distraction on critical government business such as this, and in times past when he sued the federal government for stopping the sale of petroleum products in jerry cans. “The NDF has stated in many forays that mixing politics with national security is and has never been in the best interest of the country, and consequently wonders why such an act should be on the front burner as we approach the elections. “It is, therefore, our opinion that those that went to court are nothing but agents of darkness who want to truncate our democracy at any given opportunity as exemplified by Malcolm Omirhobo. “The NDF as an advocate for democracy in Nigeria wishes to appeal to all well-meaning Nigerians to view with suspicion, actions such as what Malcolm Omirhobo exhibited because it is not only questionable, it is an affront to the sensibilities of over 180 million Nigerians who have entrusted their security and safety to the government. “The NDF consequently calls on the Court to rise in defence of the teeming Nigerians by shaming those agents of distraction and darkness hell-bent on truncating our democracy.” It Will Boost Voters’ Confidence – Middle Belt Group The Middle Belt Conscience Guard has reacted to the proposed nationwide exercise tagged Operation Python Dance III by the Nigerian Army, saying it will boost voters’ confidence before, during and after the election. Sunday Onoja, the group’s Board of Trustees (BoT) chairman, expressed optimism that the exercise will address areas in the Middle Belt where the terrorists have sleeper cells. His words: “Our geo-political zone, the North-Central, sits between the north (North East and North West geo-political zones) and the South (South-West, South-South and South-East geo-political zones). Whatever happens in any of these other geo-political zones therefore automatically affects the Middle-Belt. This makes us default stakeholders in whatever happens in these sister geo-political zones. “We can validly assert that a resurgence of Boko Haram will affect us because under the previous administration, Niger, Kogi, Plateau and Nasarawa states with the FCT were hotbeds of terrorists’ activities until the present administration came into office and appointed military service chiefs that secured the geo-political zone from terrorists. “With the desperate push that Boko Haram is making to prove that it remains relevant, the Middle Belt has no interest in seeing the group move southwards again as this will place them in our geo-political zone to the detriment of our people. “Our geo-political zone has had its share of ethno-religious crises. Plateau is a case we can refer to at any time, while Benue state has also had more than its fair share of ethnic strife that have been given different colouration that made tracking such conflicts difficult. Kogi state is not spared as well. “Experience has shown that such crises have the tendency to flare up whenever there are elections or in their immediate aftermath. This credible threat must be taken in consonance with the threats from some politicians to make the polls do or die affairs. “We further take cognisance of cases on kidnap for ransom in neighbouring geo-political zones coupled with crimes like banditry in the northwest. Efforts are being made to rid that region of the bandit, which makes it likely that the criminals being displaced could relocate to the North Central through Niger State. This makes it imperative that they are stopped from migrating into our land. “Still on migration, the farmers/herders’ clashes is of concern to us given the number of gory deaths that have been attributed to this situation. While incidences of killings, especially in Benue State, have declined, concerns remain that nefarious elements may again use the election as a trigger for the killings to resume or use the farmers/herders’ clashes as a cover to exact vengeance on political enemies. “Our concerns extend to extremist and separatist groups to the north and south of our geo-political zone. A separatist group had in the past earmarked part of the Middle Belt as territory to be excised to form part of the illegal country they are dreaming up. On their part, extremists in the last quarter of last year invaded the FCT with a view to cause mayhem. The North-Central is in need of protection from these elements. “It is in view of these peculiar challenges that the Middle-Belt Conscience Guard welcomes the Operation Python Dance that the Nigerian Army has launched across the country and meant to last until the end of February. We see the operation as being able to address the security concerns and challenges that we have identified. For us, it is a confirmation that the Federal Government is committed to tackling violence and criminal activities such as banditry, politically aided killers and other criminalities that worsen during general elections. “We are hopeful that the Operation would be able to identify and apprehend any Boko Haram suspect that escaped southwards. The exercise should equally address areas in the Middle Belt where the terrorists were once known to have sleeper cells. We would like the last vestige of Boko Haram to be removed from our geo-political zone. “We equally desire for the banditry in the North West to be contained by Operation Python Dance within that geo-political zone so that they do not ever have the chance to trouble the people of the Middle Belt. We believe this is a unique chance to decimate the criminals that have kept people across Nigeria agitated over the wanton killings that trail them everywhere.” It Should Be Carried Out In Decent Manner – MMN Chief Chief Nwawuba Ohaegbulam Ekeukwu Chieftain of the Masses Movement of Nigeria (MMN), Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State, stated: “The Military, as an institution, knows what it intends to achieve with the Operation Python Dance. So, I cannot quarrel with the exercise. I will only advise that it should be carried out in a decent responsible manner so that it does not produce dysfunctional effects.”