As the general elections draw closer, gale of defection hits Jigawa polity, investigation by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) has revealed. The investigation revealed that a number of political heavy weights have recently defected from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All progressives Congress (APC). The investigation in Dutse on Friday showed that among those who allegedly defected include first civilian governor of the state, Alhaji Ali Sa’ad Birnin Kudu, former Senator for Jigawa North-West, Alhaj Danladi Sankara. Others were former commissioners, special advisers, and members of the state and National Assembly who failed to secure tickets to re-contest. The Former Deputy Governor during the administration of Lamido, Alhaji Ahmad Muhammad was also among the defectors and is currently the campaign Director-General of the incumbent governor, Alhaji Muhammad Badaru. Mr Suleiman Bulus of the PDP said that the defectors are not politicians but people who are hungry, looking for something to eat because they are not true politicians. ”I am assuring you, anytime if PDP wins elections, the same people will still come back and meet us, I tell you, ”There is no cause for alarm, PDP will still recapture Jigawa this year, we don’t want to talk too much, just wait and see,” Bulus said. In a swift reaction, Chieftain of APC in Jigawa, Alhaji Ishaq Hadejia, popularly known as Baba Ishaq, dismissed the claim that PDP will still capture Jigawa in the upcoming elections. ”That is a dream; we have already killed and buried PDP in Jigawa, that is just an empty outburst, ”PDP will not do anything in Jigawa it is because of the good leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari in the centre and governor Muhammad Badaru in Jigawa that people are defecting to our party on daily basis. ”The APC administration under present Buhari was able to fight, corruption, insecurity and unemployment. ”Buhari was able to achieve a lot in just about four years of his tenure which the PDP couldn’t in its 16 years of administration,” he said. NAN gathered that PDP and Social Democratic Party (SDP) are in secret talk to enter into alliance to wrestle power from APC in the forthcoming elections. Efforts to contact the state chairman of PDP, Alhaji Mahmoud Kuit and his DSP counterpart, Alhaj Abba Annas to comment on the issue failed as their mobiles lines were either switched off or unavailable.