Though, like other eligible voters, they have only one vote to cast in each election, certain individuals in Akwa Ibom State wield influences beyond the power of their votes, hence potentially positioned to shape or shake what would filter out from the 2019 general elections in the state. Nsikak Ekanem reports on 20 outstanding persons with powers to persuade where pendulum of 2019 polls could swim to in Akwa Ibom. Udom As the governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel has what it takes, in almost all ramifications, in shaping or shaking the course of 2019 electioneering in the state. The fact that he is seeking a second term under the platform of the PDP, the only party controlling the machinery of the state government since the return to democracy in Nigeria in 1999, would, in addition to powers of incumbency, add impetus in influencing direction of Akwa Ibom polity in the course of the 2019 general elections. In the time being, following defection from PDP to APC by his immediate predecessor, Godswill Akpabio, whose back he rode to power in 2015, he is actively calling the shot in all directions, thereby proving wrong the criticism that he is a political neophyte and would remain a puppet in perpetuity. Ekere Among 21 persons jostling for the office of Akwa Ibom State governor, Nsima Ekere, who flies the governorship flag of APC, is unarguably the main challenger of the incumbent governor. As at the time of compiling this report he was still the Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. On account of being the helmsman of the federal government intervention agency, he is seen as pseudo governor of nine oil producing states in Nigeria. He is known for being strong-willed and independent. All what constitutes the personality of the former deputy governor would add up to his governorship candidature in shaping or shaking the course of events in the 2019 elections in Akwa Ibom. Akpabio Since 2007 that he assumed the mantle of leadership as governor of Akwa Ibom, which he governed for two terms of eight years, the immediate past Senate Minority Leader, has been reckoned as having a godfather influence in the politics of the state. He is currently serving his first term in the Nigerian Senate and among 69 senators bidding to return to the upper chamber of the National Assembly. He recently defected from PDP, a party through which he has been all he is in politics, to APC, a party he had been vehemence in venting grievances on. He is the South-South Coordinator for President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term bid. Following his pitching tent with the APC, Akpabio, who is the Senatorial Candidate for Akwa Ibom North West (Ikot Ekpene) Senatorial District, in his typical nature, has been vowing not only to preoccupy his mind on his second term senatorial election but to deliver Akwa Ibom to APC in the governorship and presidential elections. Any doing of his on matters concerning the 2019 general would most likely factor into molding or marring the outcome of the elections in the state. Etiebet 74-year old Don Etiebet is the oldest among topnotch politicians that still retain sizeable relevance in influencing political directions in Akwa Ibom State. He is one of the chieftains of APC from Akwa Ibom and functions as Caucus chairman of APC in the state. From 1979, in the old Cross River State, which Akwa Ibom was formerly part of, he has been making substantial contributions to those elected governors except Governor Udom Emmanuel. Following his father-figure influence in private entrepreneurship and politics, he is reputed as one politician in Akwa Ibom that commands national clout, and his voice has been reverberating from the state with national attention. With no signs of mellowing down, in any way, it is expected that the stuff in the former Petroleum Minister would have a fair share in tilting trend of things throughout the 2019 elections in Akwa Ibom Enang Ita Enang, who is steering Akwa Ibom APC governorship campaign as Director General, is most likely the only Nigerian that have passed through all the legislative rungs in the country – local government council, House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senate. Currently, he is Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly Matters. Since his entry into APC and the Buhari-led administration, the erudite lawyer has not been sparing the PDP-led state government his diatribe. Owing to former Governor Godswill Akpabio’s defection from PDP to APC, virtually his tirades on issues in Akwa Ibom are now only on the doorstep of Governor Udom Emmanuel. Though he is not vying for any elective post, it is glaring, through his actions, that he is committed to ensuring victory for APC at all levels of the elections in Akwa Ibom, and that much would have substance in shaping or shaking 2019 elections in the state. Onofiok The Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly has a celebrity status in the state. In 2006, he was prominent among some young elements that played decisively role for Godswill Akpabio, who was considered a dark horse, to emerge as the PDP governorship candidate, which he went on to win in the general elections of 2007. He is said to be outspoken and identifying strongly with the youth in the state. Aside being the speaker, the 41-year old lawyer-turned-politician, is outstanding in his legislative duties, particularly by sponsoring life-touching bills in the House of Assembly. In fact, he was recently awarded the 2018 Legislator of the Year by Independent Newspapers, the publisher of Daily Independent. So far in the build-up to the 2019 elections in Akwa Ibom, he has been making news on happenings in the polity. Apart running for the House of Representatives seat for Etinan Constituency in the state, the pioneer Speaker of the Nigerian Youth Parliament is expected to play no mean roles on other elections in the state, and, hence, his influence would add up to molding the shape of things in the 2019 elections. Albert Following the defection of two other senators from PDP to APC, Senator Bassey Albert is the only serving senator in Akwa Ibom on the platform of the PDP. He is one of the political protégés of Godswill Akpabio, under whose administration he had served for about 7 years as Finance Commissioner. With a seeming deep pocket, he is said to constantly oiling his political structures and machineries to a point of enjoying some sort of cult followership, particularly among the youths in Akwa Ibom. Though he is contesting for a second term in the Senate, the chairman of Senate’s Oil and Gas Committee, is also expected to deploy his energy on other elections with a view to positioning the party at advantage position, especially as he is said to still be still eyeing the governorship position that he had earlier set his eyes on in 2015. Nwoko On account of his involvement in rights activism, which Akwa Ibom seems to have in short supply, the Akwa Ibom State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Uwemedimo Nwoko, apart from Deputy Governor Moses Ekpo, is likely the only person in the cabinet of Udom Emmanuel that has been in public consciousness before having official recognition in the political scheme of things in the state. Contrary to the view by some of his critics that being in government has whittled his worth in activism, the 54-year old lawyer has taken the frontier of his legal activism to tackling perceived unconstitutional moves of the APC-led federal government. Also, following deep involvement in election petition matters, it is expected that either directly or indirectly he would be coordinating briefs emanating from the 2019 general elections in Akwa Ibom, hence he would not be left out among those with outstanding actions in shaping or shaking the trend of things concerning the elections in the state. Ememobong 35-year old Ini Ememobong is the Publicity Secretary of Akwa Ibom PDP chapter. He is said to have latched on Onofiok Luke’s ascendancy in politics to adoption by Godswill Akpabio, and eventual political consolidation by Udom Emmanuel. The legal practitioner has shown traits of versatility in his public engagements. He has raised antennae ofAkwa Ibom PDP’s publicity machinery, even to the admiration of his political admirers and adversaries. Being savvy in the use of traditional and social media, he appears not to be leaving any stone untouched in projecting, protecting and promoting the PDP in the state. It is expected that he would put his best to task on matters in 2019 elections, hence the likelihood that his name would be cropping up among movers and shakers of the incoming elections in Akwa Ibom. Unoma Akpabio Following emergence of her husband, Godswill Akpabio, as governor of Akwa Ibom State in 2007, Unoma Akpabio was rechristened Ekaete by Akpabio to fulfill some sort of domestication righteousness. Nobly or ignobly, Unoma Akpabio, has been adjudged by not a few person as the most powerful First Lady, so far, in Akwa Ibom. Though her husband’s current position of being a Senator has not conferred any formal or informal sobriquet on her, she still wield sizeable influence in the politics of Akwa Ibom courtesy the remnants of the spoils of her husband’s governorship job. Just as she is still deeply involved in politics, she is still servicing socio-political structures that she relied on in their days in the Government House. Coupled with apparent generous heart, she is still seen as one force that would factors into where votes could trip to in the 2019 general elections in Akwa Ibom. Ekpenyong Notwithstanding his unassuming disposition, Udo Ekpenyong, who mans the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in Akwa Ibom is considered by political pundits as one person in the cabinet of Governor Udom Emmanuel that has what it takes to woo some sections of voters across 31 local government areas in the state to his preferred side. He appears reserved and shy but shrewd and stoic in his approach to issues. Far ahead of time and others, he saw Godswill Akpabio’s moves to switch support from Udom Emmanuel to candidate of opposition party. Akpabio was uncomfortable with the far-sightedness of his camera-lens, hence he called for his sack from the cabinet early last year. The governor immediately obliged only to bring him back to the cabinet after the defection of Akpabio from PDP to APC. With robustly nourishing relationship with political leaders in the 31 local government councils and traditional rulers, from Family Heads to Paramount Rulers throughout the state, he is seen as one politician in the state that has fabulous network in all nooks and crannies in the state. In addition to being a trusted ally of the governor, the stuff that he is made of will surely come to play in no mean way in the outcome of the elections in Akwa Ibom. Martha Udom Though the offices of wives of governors ostensibly play non-governmental role, it is an open secret in Nigeria that First Ladies, as the wives of governors and President are called, boast of certain portion of political influence within their respective domains. Though Martha Udom Emmanuel is said to showing image of an apolitical being, findings show that more than ever, she is interested in the political victory of her husband. Being indigene of Akwa Ibom and humble, notwithstanding her relatively aristocratic background, is an added advantage, especially with sentimental comparison to profiles of dominant forces challenging her husband’s second term ambition. Either by fair or unfair means, Martha’s name and prejudices surrounding her, would square into who becomes what in the 2019 elections in Akwa Ibom. Udoedehe John James Akpan Udoedehe, who had at different times held the position of chairman of Uyo Local Government Council, senator, and Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja, remains a recurrent decimal in the politics of Akwa Ibom State since 1999. After defecting from PDP to the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN, he was the main challenger of Godswill Akpabio in 2011 governorship election that was characterised more with tribally-driven violence. Though he is seen in certain quarters in the state as having nuisance value, he, nonetheless, has strong masses appeal, particularly from Uyo axis in the state. Eyakenyi Mrs Akon Eyakennyi was minister of Lands, Housing and Urban Development under Goodluck Jonathan presidency. She is PDP senatorial candidate for Eket Senatorial District. Aside, her senatorial candidature, she exerts a kind of first-class leadership role in women movement in Akwa Ibom. While the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly was recently embroiled in crisis following expulsion of five members that defected from PDP to APC, she mobilized hundreds of women to protest against alleged siege of the House of Assembly premises by the police. Her galvanization dexterity among the women folk and her leadership role from the Oron ethnic group could play decisive role in the outcome of the 2019 elections in the state. Enoidem Emmanuel Enoidem, a lawyer and former university teacher has been in PDP since its inception in 1998. The former chairman of Etim Ekpo local government area has had a steady rising political profile and rousing relationship with successive governors in the since 1999. He was one of the egg-heads in the Godswill Akpabio administration, which he served as commissioner throughout the eight years the Akpabio governorship tenure lasted. He is currently the National Legal Adviser of the PDP. With strong grassroots connectivity and fabulous political patronage to his teeming followers, he has got an household name. His political actions in the 2019 elections would not only be of substance in Akwa Ibom but at the national scene, which he now engages more of his time and energy. Eyibo Eseme Eyibo, a former legislator and one time spokesman of the House of Representatives, is multi-talented politician. As the chief image maker in the campaign organization of the Akwa Ibom State APC governorship candidate, Eyibo is expected revitalized the opposition party’s publicity machinery, which has been in docility. In the course of revamping public image of the APC candidate, he would have course to be tackling the ruling PDP in the state, and in a way or the other his actions would come into reckoning throughout the election period in Akwa Ibom. Enwang Sam Enwang, a retired Group Captain of the Nigerian Air Force, had, at different times, been Military Administrator of Ogun and Rivers State under Sanni Abacha military government. He had time and again been governorship candidate of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party, ANPP. He is a member of the APC’s Board of Trustees. He has also been appointed chairman of Nsima Ekere’s governorship campaign organization by the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the APC. The polling units situated at his Ikot Nya country home are said to be exemplars of free and fair elections, apparently adduced to balance of terror between him and his kinsman and soldier-colleague, Idongesit Nkanga. Nkanga Idongesit Nkanga, a retired Air Commondore, who was Military Administrator of Akwa Ibom State between 1990 and 1992, is the first indigenous governor of the state. His landmark infrastructural signature remains the state’s secretariat complex that is named after him. The position of Director General of PDP governorship candidates since 2011 seems to be permanently reserved for him. Known for having organizational prowess, the everyday works at the Divine Mandate Organisation, which he holds sway as the helmsman would have bearings on the outcome of the 2019 elections, particularly the Akwa Ibom State governorship, which he is tasked with the responsibility of returning incumbent Governor Udom Emmanuel. Igini Mike Igini, is the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Akwa Ibom State. He is a lawyer, and has been involved rights activism. Tony Iredia, a veteran and former Director General of Nigerian Television Authority, NTA, once described him as “INEC’s encyclopedia of electoral information”. Since his redeployment to Akwa Ibom from Cross River State, he has been making avowal assurances that the commission will deliver credible polls in the state. He is widely assumed to be having pedigree of integrity. How his assumed uprightness and quest for egalitarianism would come to bear in the processes of electing new political leaders in Akwa Ibom State would contributes on how history would record the 2019 elections in the state. John Ebebe Ayah, John Ebebe Aya is the Bishop of Catholic Diocese of Uyo. He is one of the religious leaders in Christendom in Nigeria that opts out from the trend of making political prophesies, as to who will win and lose. He is also not seen to be allying with certain political office seekers and parties. He was recently in the news for inviting the trio of Udom Emmanuel, Nsima Ekere and Godswill for worship at his church on first Sunday of this year. At the event Udom and Ekere embraced each and make separate speeches of hanging their fate in the elections on God and commitment to peaceful electioneering. It is expected that the Catholic priest would step up effort, similar to what Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah along others did in 2015 presidential election in dousing tension and acrimony that normally occurs immediately after election result is announced.