ABUJA – The Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) has expressed its readiness to contain the outbreak of Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) currently in Vhembe and Capricorn Districts in Limpopo, South Africa. A statement at the weekend by Dr. Chigozie Nwodo, spokesman of NAQS, said following this incidence, officers of the NAQS at all ports of entry are on the lookout for live cloven-hooved animals and associated raw products that may be imported from South Africa and contiguous countries. According to the statement, “The Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) wishes to inform the general public of the confirmed outbreak of Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) in Vhembe and Capricorn Districts in Limpopo, South Africa. “Following this incidence, officers of the NAQS at all ports of entry are on the lookout for live cloven-hooved animals and associated raw products that may be imported from South Africa and contiguous countries. “They are on high alert to minimise the risk of the entry of infected animals or contaminated items of animal origin from the Southern Africa axis. “They are under instruction to quarantine any animal that could reasonably be deemed to be a suspect carrier. “Food and mouth disease is an infectious and sometimes fatal viral disease that affects sheep, goat, pig, cattle and other bovids. “The clinical symptoms of the disease are high fever which may last between two and six days; blisters inside the mouth which may lead to excessive secretion of stringy and foamy saliva and to drooling and blisters on the feet which may eventually rupture and cripple the animal.” “FMD takes a huge economic toll on animal farming. Because it is highly infectious, the disease can devastate herds and cause serious losses to livestock farmers. “It can spread by infected animals through contaminated feed, farming equipment, vehicles and wild and domesticated predators. “The general public is therefore advised to report any case related to the above symptoms to the quarantine post in their locality or the agriculture department in their local government council. Alternatively, they may reach the Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service directly via email: contact@naqs.gov.ng or call +234 809 133 3385, +234 807 777 8943.” Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service is the agency of government responsible for preventing the entry, establishment and spread of animal and zoonotic diseases as well as pests of plants and fisheries and their products.