Ladan Bosso, the Chief Coach of Gombe United Football Club, on Monday said the 2018/2019 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) has not kicked off because of the supremacy of personal interests. Bosso told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Gombe that divergent views resulting from administrators’ personal interests have been making it difficult for the competition’s organisers to reach a decision. “This is not good for the development of the game, and it is frustrating coaches, players, referees and other stakeholders. “When action is supposed to be taken, they find it difficult to reach a decision because of too many interests. “When there are too many interests here and there, it will be difficult to take decisions and that has been delaying the commencement of the league,’’ he said. Bosso then said that the league’s organisers, the League Management Company (LMC), needed to be firm and direct in order for the game to develop. “If this is the case it will take no time to decide,” the coach said. He decried attempts by some groups to hold the football community in Nigeria to ransom. “Administration of football is not by relevance or ego, but a deliberate effort through purpose-driven leadership for the good of the game. “Some people at the helm of affairs also have to calm down, not because they are not wise but for the development of the game and the sake of players and coaches.” Bosso lamented the fact that coaches and players have been training in preparation for the new season without knowing when the league would begin. “This is frustrating for all football stakeholders.’’ He then appealed to all those who have grouped themselves into factions to come together for an agreement on the way forward for the sake of football development in Nigeria. The coach said his movement to Gombe United FC was to help in uplifting the club through collective efforts involving the players and the Gombe State Government. He added that he would aim at building a legacy that would ensure he would be remembered after he must have left the club. Bosso, who was unveiled as Gombe United FC’s Chief Coach on Dec. 24, had coached Enyimba, Kano Pillars, Niger Tornadoes, Abia Warriors and FC IfeanyiUbah.