The Emir of Kano, Mallam Muhammad Sanusi II, has described those attacking Mosques and Churches in Nigeria as ill informed and uneducated political activists. He condemned, in very strong terms, bomb attacks on churches and mosques in the country. Commissioning the Eket Central Mosques at Ebana community in Eket Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom, weekend, the monarch said it was unfortunate because those perpetrating this act use the name of Islam, which has led to some misunderstanding across the world in the religion. He said: “We live in a world in which a small minority of Muslims has taken it upon itself to unleash violence on the rest of humanity. “Some of this misunderstanding is a deliberate misrepresentation. How do you attribute to the religion of Islam. “A Muslim who came to a mosque and people are praying on Friday and they are praying Allah Wakuba and he says Allah Wakuba and explodes bomb and killed his people. “The whole basics for taking up arms in Islam was against a system that stops you from being a Muslim, persecutes you, kills you and criminalises you from being a Muslim and to established a system that frees you”. He prayed every community in Nigeria would accept the diversity of the country, respect the diversity and be the good neighbour and keepers of their brothers. Sanusi also challenged Nigerians to  take responsibility to learn about the Islamic religion and bring up their children in a manner they understand the teaching of peace, tolerance and love that are the heart of Islam. “We need to teach them that there is nothing in Islam that permits a Muslim to commit an injustice against a fellow Muslim or non Muslim. “Those who do not raised war against you because of your faith, those who do not persecutes you or chase you out of your homes, Allah does not stop you from being kind to them and doing justice to them,” he said The traditional ruler defended that his religion gives no room for Muslims to go and attack churches and Mosques in the country. In his response the Paramount Ruler of Eket, His Majesty Obong Etim Abia, welcomed the Emir of Kano, His Highness Mallam Muhammad Sanusi II for finding time to visit the area. The Royal Father described the event as auspicious, and the  day as remarkable for the people of the community. Represented by the Village Head of Afaha Eket, Chief Inim Ekanem, Abia expressed the optimism that the mosques would bring unity between the Muslims and Christians in the community.