An undercover journalist, Ahmed Hussein-Suale, who helped exposed corruption in African football, including suspended Super Eagles assistant coach, Salisu Yusuf in alleged bribe taking, has been murdered in his home country, Ghana. Ahmed Husein was part of a team led by award-winning journalist Anas Aremeyaw Anas, whose investigation led to the resignation of the head of the Ghana Football Association. Dozens of football referees and officials in several countries were also banned as a result of the investigation, including the Nigerian national team coach, Salisu Yusuf, for receiving cash from undercover journalists posing as agents. Prominent among those banned is former Ghana Football Association president Kwesi Nyantakyi, who was handed a life ban from all football-related activities by FIFA following various violations of the governing body’s ethics code, including bribery and corruption. He was shot three times in the chest by unknown gunmen in Accra. A source in Anas’ crew confirmed that the attack on Hussein-Suale, by unidentified men on motor cycles, happened while he was driving home on Wednesday night. He was shot twice in the chest and once in the neck in the Accra suburb of Madina close to midnight. The director of the criminal investigations department, Maame Yaa Tiwaa Addo-Danquah, said: “Our men are on the ground currently gathering information. Everyone connected to this murder will be invited for questioning.” Husein was shot in the neck and chest by unknown gunmen on his way home on Wednesday night in the capital Accra, police said. Anas tweeted: “Sad news, but we shall not be silenced. Rest in peace, Ahmed.” Husein had previously made a complaint to police after a Ghanaian politician, Kennedy Agyapong, showed his photograph on a private television channel. Suale would be remembered mostly in Nigeria for the part he played in exposing Yusuf in a video footage. His hidden camera caught Yusuf apparently accepting a bribe of $1,000, to ensure two players made the Nigerian team for the Championship of African Nations (CHAN 2018) in Morocco last July.