LAGOS – The Dangote Oil Refining Company (DORC) Limited, says it took delivery of one of the major component of its refinery equipment; the regenerator for the Residual Fluid Catalytic cracker last week. Fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) is widely used to convert the high-boiling, high-molecular weight hydrocarbon fractions of petroleum crude oils into more valuable gasoline, olefinic gases, and other products. The company has commenced the installation of equipment for the 650,000 barrels-per-day crude oil refinery being built in the Lekki area of Lagos. The refinery is being designed to accommodate multiple grades of domestic and foreign crude and process these into high-quality gasoline, diesel, kerosene, and aviation fuels that meet Euro V emissions specifications, plus polypropylene. It will include a crude distillation unit, single-train residual fluid catalytic cracking unit, diesel hydro-treating unit, continuous catalyst regeneration unit, alkylation unit, and a polypropylene unit. The refinery will also be able to adjust its production of different products to match market demands. Mr. Rama Putta, the Head of Quality Assurance/Quality Compliance and Construction, DORC, yesterday said the sand filling of the site has been completed, adding that 60 per cent of the land was swampy. “The refinery equipment are coming in semi-finished shape and we will finish them off here at the sight. The remaining are being manufactured in various countries, including China, India, America, South Korea, Singapore and Malaysia.” Mr. Devakumar Edwin, Executive Director, Dangote Group, said the 650,000 barrel per day refinery would stimulate economic development in Nigeria. He said the refinery was designed to process a variety of light and medium grades of crude and produce extremely clean fuels that meet Euro V specification. The Dangote boss said usually, the sulphur in petroleum fuels results in vehicle exhaust emissions that have negative impact on health and environment, adding that the Dangote plant has invested in most advanced technology to produce Euro V fuel due to help Nigeria meet the European Standard of gasoline. He said the project would provide thousands of direct and indirect jobs, and add value to the Nigeria’s economic development, noting that the refinery will lead to significant skills transfer and technology acquisition opportunities in the country.