Abuja – The House of Representatives on Tuesday approved the sum of N30, 000 as the new National Minimum Wage for Nigerian workers. This position runs against the N27, 000 approved by the National Council of State at its emergency meeting on Monday, last week. It also countered the argument of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum which reportedly pushed the proposal of N27, 000 and prevailed on the NCS to approve same. The House arrived at the decision following consideration and adoption of the report of its ad hoc committee on the repeal and re-enactment of the National Minimum Wage Act of 1981 and for other related matters. The House, while deliberating on the report, also approved a clause that makes the law effective from the day the president signs it. In view of this amendment, the House also resolved to incorporate the new figure into the 2019 appropriation bill still pending before it. This was in reaction to concerns raised by House Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila, after listening to the presentation of the synopsis by the ad hoc committee chairman and Deputy Speaker, Yusuf Sulaimon Lasun. Gbajabiamila noted that the N30, 000 the committee recommended in its report for adoption was not the amount captured in the 2019 budget still before the House. The Chairman, Rules and Business, Edward Pwajok, who noted earlier the time frame within which the implementation would commence, also moved that the clause relating to commencement date be included in the bill, saying that it would take effect from the day it is signed into law by the president. House Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, and Abubakar Nuhu Dan-Buram, from Kano, also argued that the issue relating to how much was in the budget shouldn’t be a concern as it could be immediately incorporated into the 2019 budget – to enable government pay arrears that would have arisen from the commencement of the budget cycle. The amendment was carried and passed as part of the bill going back for presidential assent. The House, after considering the 11-page report at the Committee of the Whole, reverted to plenary and passed the bill for third reading. Speaker Dogara, in his remark, commended the deputy speaker and his team for expediting action on the bill and the entire House, which took just two legislative days to pass the document. He noted that the House would wait for the Senate to pass their own version, and if there were differences, there would be a harmonisation conference, and if not, it would get a concurrence and transmission to the executive for assent. Meanwhile, the House has adjourned plenary to February 19 to enable members attend to their election campaigns and the elections billed for February 16. The adjournment was sequel to a motion moved by the Deputy House Leader, Idriss Wase (APC-Plateau), at the plenary session. It would be recalled that the lawmakers on January 16 resumed for the 2019 legislative duty after the Christmas and New Year break. Moving the motion, Wase, who represents Wase Federal Constituency of Plateau, said that the adjournment became imperative because of preparations toward the forthcoming general elections. He said that the postponement of plenary sittings would allow members vying for one position or the other to focus on electioneering and other political activities of their political parties. The speaker, therefore, put the motion to vote and it was unanimously supported by the members. Earlier at the plenary, Speaker Dogara, Ahmed Yerima and Edward Pwajok formally announced their defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). While Pwajok represents Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency of Plateau in the House, Yerima represents Missau/Dambam Federal Constituency of Bauchi State. The legislators announced their resignations from APC in separate letters to the House of Representatives, which were read on the floor of the House by the speaker. Dogara, who represents Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa Federal Constituency of Bauchi State, said that they resigned their membership of the APC due to irreconcilable differences. The legislators said that they defected to the PDP after due consultations with their constituents.