January would mark another milestone in Nigeria’s pension reform effort as the National Pension Commission (PenCom) is set to launch the Micro Pension Plan. In this report, OYENIRAN APATA, OLUSEGUN KOIKI and CHRIS EBONG take a look at the new scheme, opportunities and the history of pension administration. Barely any last minute arrangement from the National Pension Commission (PenCom), the Micro Pension Scheme would be flagged off. Prior to this expectation, there have been consultation after consultations and series of engagements before the final guideline was released. The month of January, however, has been scheduled for the takeoff. The micro pension, experts in the industry, believe is a goldmine both for the operators, the industry as over 20million subscribers who are expected to enroll into the scheme with the pension asset under management would double, from the present N8.3trillion within the first one year into the scheme and a life changer for the subscribers who by virtue of their status as self-employed would have a platform where they can save for their retirement. Other benefits include the improved standard of living for the elderly, safety of funds and access to other incentives, such as mortgage facilities, health insurance and estate planning. In addition are flexible contribution remittances, the opportunity to make a withdrawal prior to retirement and the enhancement of financial inclusion in the country. The benefits are enormous indeed. The National Pension Commission had earlier disclosed that it was intensifying efforts at ensuring the provision of necessary infrastructure for the launching of the Micro Pension Scheme in line with the Commission’s strategic objective of expanding coverage of the CPS to the under-served sectors. This, it was stated, is a major kernel of the strategy for expanding coverage of the Contributory Pension Scheme. Meanwhile, the Guidelines for the Micro Pension Scheme are being finalised preparatory to the commencement of the scheme. For analysts, a lot of work on the part of the operators, the Pension Fund Administrators (PFA) has to be done by engaging the grassroots to key into the scheme given the fact that that is where the scheme is base and could only thrive where there is some level of penetration. The informal sector operators who are the target constitute the highest employment of the total Nigerian workforce of over 70 per cent. Speaking on the micro-pension scheme, Mr. Eric Fajemisin, Managing Director and Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited said the scheme would help in deepening asset accumulation in the country and provides the crucial capital required for investment in critical sectors of the economy. The initiative designed to cover an estimated 70 per cent of Nigeria’s working population in the informal sector, the scheme offers enormous benefits to the society and ensure improved standard of living for the elderly, guarantee the safety of funds and may provide access to other incentives, such as mortgage facilities and health insurance, regardless of challenges associated with its seamless implementation. “Though the industry is doing well currently, it is not yet Uhuru. There is still more land to conquer, great improvement required. The proposed micro-pension scheme is one initiative with great potential capable of landing the industry into its next phase of growth. “Regardless of the inherent challenges, the micro-pension scheme has the capability to deepen asset accumulation in Nigeria considering that 70 per cent of Nigeria’s working population operates in the informal sector”. Among its other benefits include the improved standard of living for the elderly, the safety of funds and access to other incentives, such as mortgage facilities, health insurance and estate planning. In addition are flexible contribution remittances, the opportunity to make a withdrawal prior to retirement and the enhancement of financial inclusion in the country. The benefits are enormous indeed. Mr. Umar Sanda Maira, Managing Director and CEO, Premium Pensions Limited, noted that “Micro pension is that that we hope will give us that large expansion not putting up enough structure to manage that then you will be giving failed promises to your customers. And micro pension is not a prerogative of any part of Nigeria is more or less everywhere in Nigeria. In some locations, we will have like standalone offices, in some location we locate with our business partners”. This implies that without adequate structure such that would guarantee to deepen penetration as the entire effort may turn a frail. Also noted by analysts is that the scheme is new in Nigeria needs to be sold through deliberate education and awareness mechanism for it to see the light of the day but not to wait for someone to work into operator’s office to buy. Stakeholders Recommend Flexible Contribution, Accessibility The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has finally put to rest the speculations on when the Micro pension scheme would commence. The new commencement date has been fixed for this January as against the November 2018 date. Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, Acting Director-General, PenCom who disclosed this in Lagos recently, said a draft guideline and framework on the plan have been released to the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and input received and incorporated into the final copy of the document. Speaking to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Dahir-Umar said: “It is pertinent to inform you that the Commission has released the draft Guidelines and framework on the Micro Pension Plan to the Licensed Pension Operators and the various stakeholders. Feedback from the stakeholders and operators have been received, considered and incorporated. The final guidelines for the Micro Pension Plan (MPP) will be released as soon as they are approved.” She said the Commission was developing the required ICT infrastructure to drive the process and this is critical to the success of implementing the Micro Pension Plan. It is envisaged that before the year ends, the plan will commence. In her reaction, Mrs Ronke Adedeji, Chairperson, Association of Pension Funds Operators of Nigeria (PenOp) recommended flexibility of contribution amounts, access to contributions/savings, incentives for participants, financial/pension education, as a key public attraction to the scheme. She added coverage of a high proportion of the population, and availability of infrastructure that is supportive of mass registration including flexibility in the collection of contribution, and database management, easy and straightforward access to benefits among others as a major ingredient of the new policy.