Lagos – Selected gubernatorial candidates and others vying for different positions in the forthcoming general elections in Lagos State have, at a round table, spelt out their plans for farmers and the agricultural sector if they eventually win. The interactive session, organised by HEDA Resource Centre, Voice for Food Security (VFS), Transition Monitoring Group (TMG) and Oxfam, tagged, ‘Meet the Farmers’, had in attendance, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Jimi Agbaje of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Babatunde Gbadamosi of Action Democratic Party (ADP), Oluwasegun Mutairu Musa of Advance National Democratic Party (ANDP) and Abiodun Dabiri of Abundant Nigeria  Renewal Party (ANRP), among others. Olanrewaju Suraju, Chair, HEDA Management Team, while speaking at the forum, which had in attendance agricultural sector leaders, farmers associations leadrs and young agroprenuers, said what the groups sought to achieve was an atmosphere where candidates would listen to farmers and their manifestos on farming, and on the basis of that, told the farmers how they planned to address various problems of the sector. “Without mincing words, let us state clearly that issues of food production, distributions, storage and access to loans, inputs and machinery as well as the positioning of agriculture as the main earner in our economy is a central issues for this election, if truly we are serious about lifting millions out of poverty, creating millions of jobs, reducing the disease burden, improving general well beings and diversifying our economy away from oil,” he added. Sulaiman Arigbabu of HEDA Rescource Centre said that in Lagos state, budgetary allocation to agriculture had been one per cent, adding that the quality of spending did not maximise the production potential, neither does it support small-scale farmers. “Unfortunately there is an erroneous perception that Lagos is not an agriculturally advantaged state, a perception that is due largely to her relatively small land mass and urban nature. In fact it has a comparative advantage in many areas of agriculture than some other states. “Fishing,  aquaculture, vegetable farming, agro-processing and commodity markets are areas where  Lagos could optimize and upscale for massive economic impact. Besides as a mega city, Lagos as many mouths to feed especially when we consider the wise saying that ‘hungry man, is an angry man’ and rationality ends where hunger begins,” For this to happen, according to him, Lagos citizens must demand accountability from elected officials and properly scrutinise their plans and commitment to agriculture. He said that campaigns had not focused on issues, but mostly driven by propaganda, blackmail, falsehood and unrealistic promises, adding that these had fueled voter apathy and dwindling confidence in the democratic process. “19 years after the return to civil rule, the majority of the citizens are still unable to access the most basic needs, chief among which is food. Poverty and hunger pervade the land and our country is said to have more people living under abject poverty than countries like India that has over sixties our population,” he said.