ABUJA – Professor Jerry Gana, Presidential Candidate of the Social Democratic Party, SDP, on Saturday vowed the drive the devolution of powers to the federating units in Nigeria. Gana, who spoke during a stakeholders summit, organised by the party in Abuja, said states would be made strong in such a manner that  they will be generating enough funds internally to cater for their needs rather than relying on the Federal Government for survival. The two time former Minister of Information, who also unveiled to Nigerians and party members, what he called the SWIFT action plan that his government will follow if elected in the coming general elections, declared that every state in the country has the potential to fend for themselves if their resources are well harnessed. He said the SWIFT action plan was a response to legitimate concerns expressed by many Nigerians about the insecurity in the Federal Republic of Nigeria. SWITF, he said, stands for Security Re-engineering, Wealth Creation, Infrastructure Excellence and Power Supply, Fight against corruption and indiscipline, and Technology, Education and Human Development. “While designing the SWIFT we listened carefully to Nigerians in every parts of the Federal Republic, secondly, we listened to very vociferous voices of our people expressing legitimate concerns about the growing insecurity in the Federal Republic of Nigeria. People are worried for lives. Many of our people are worried. Thousands of our people have been killed in their own homeland. People are now worried for their families in many states of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. The SDP Presidential Candidate said the party wants to begin its campaign through grassroots mobilisation, with a view to winning elections next month. Gana who requested that all candidates contesting for one post or another, and the state chairmen of the party, join him in the podium, expressed optimism that the party shall campaign and win in every constituency by the grace of God. Delegates from across the 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory were on hand to cheers the Presidential candidate at the event. He enjoined stakeholders to support Gana’s quest to become President, as he shall bring among other things, security and human development. Dr. Ike Nelieaku, Director General of Prof. Jerry Gana Campaign Organization, in his welcome address, described Gana as a man who understand the pains of Nigerians. According to him, he convened the summit to interact with the party leaders and indeed all Nigerians of good will, on ways of moving the country forward.