Some community based organisations in Benue recently held a candle-light procession in honour of the 73 persons that lost their lives to suspected Fulani herdsmen attacks in the state on 1st January, 2018. The groups also marched   to Government house, Makurdi, where they implored the Benue government to enforce the anti-open grazing law and mete out  requisite  penalties to offenders. They also appealed to stakeholders to consider dialogue to correct grey areas  in  the law rather than resorting to the killing of innocent citizens. The programme was put together by KASE Foundation, Benue Youth Congress (BYC), Benue Valley Initiative and other CBOs in the state. Speaking to newsmen in Makurdi, Mlumun Ati, Programmes Manager, KASE Foundation explained that :”The candle light procession is a memorial event . We are saying we are still mourning. We are praying for the repose of lost souls of those that were killed last year. We still feel the pain, we still remember our loved ones we lost; children, parents, sisters, brothers. Today is to say: they are still in our hearts and we grieve for them, but even while we grieve, we pray that their souls will continue to rest in peace. “The anti-open grazing law is here but it does not exclude anybody from staying here, it says you can come and learn to remain peaceably with the people in the communities, the farmers; we are actually an agrarian state, so we should learn to co-exist. Also speaking to newsmen, Orgu Anngu, President, Benue Youth Congress (BYC) lamented the massacre that left several  women and children dead. He insisted that plans to change the narrative that Benue people were their own killers would not stand, adding that they were opposed to grazing routes. Meanwhile,Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), said it arrested about 40 suspected cultists and recovered two weapons in Benue state during the  the last yuletide Major General Adeyemi Yekini, Force Commander, OPWS, who disclosed this to newsmen at the weekend, explained that the suspected cultists have been handed over to the police. He explained that his troops recovered two weapons at Ikpayongo town, Gwer East Local Government Area (LGA) of the state last Thursday. According to him, between December and now, there has been relative peace in the state, even as OPWS has continued to make new deployment of troops to flashpoint to curtail any threat to peace and security. Among such area where more troops have been deployed are Agasha, a riverine town in Guma LGA of the state.