Temidayo Akinsuyi and Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – As Nigerians prepare for the forthcoming general election, the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (U.S.) have warned of dire consequences for anyone, political party or groups who try to undermine the electoral process through violence, rigging and other anti-democratic acts. In a joint statement made available to Daily Independent on Thursday, the two countries pledged their commitment to ensuring free and fair elections in the country, saying the 2019 election is important not only for Nigeria, but for the African continent. They added in the statement that anyone found culpable will not only be prosecuted under international law but they alongside their family members will face visa restrictions among other sanctions such as inaccessibility to funds in both countries. Both countries also said while they will not support any candidate or political parties in the election, they will give adequate support to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct free, fair and credible election. It would be recalled that former President Olusegun Obasanjo had last week raised the alarm that President Muhammadu Buhari and his party, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), have already perfected plans to rig the elections through INEC. The statement by the US government reads: “The conduct of the upcoming elections in Nigeria is important not only for Nigeria, but for the African continent. “The United States government does not support any specific candidate or party in Nigeria’s upcoming elections. The United States supports the Nigerian democratic process itself. We support a genuinely free, fair, transparent, and peaceful electoral process. “We, and other democratic nations, will be paying close attention to actions of individuals who interfere in the democratic process or instigate violence against the civilian population before, during, or after the elections. We will not hesitate to consider consequences – including visa restrictions – for those found to be responsible for election-related violence or undermining the democratic process.  Under U.S. immigration law, certain violations may also lead to restrictions on family members. “We welcome the signing of peace pledges by Nigerian candidates and their commitment to a peaceful electoral process”. The UK government on its part said, “23 days to the Presidential and National Assembly elections and 37 days to the Gubernatorial and State Assembly elections, the British High Commission in Abuja would like to reaffirm our strong support for free, fair and peaceful elections in Nigeria. “We and our international partners remain committed supporters of Nigeria’s democracy. We do not support any party or individual and believe that the Nigerian people should be able to choose their leaders in an environment free from hate speech and insecurity. “We continue to provide significant support to Nigeria’s Independent National Electoral Commission and to Nigerian civil society to help them deliver credible elections. We also regularly engage with actors across the political spectrum to encourage them to respect electoral rules and maintain an atmosphere of peace and calm. We will be deploying an extensive observation mission for the forthcoming elections, including coordinating with the EU’s Election Observation Mission. “Our monitors will in particular be looking out for any attempts to encourage or use violence to influence the elections, including on social media. We would like to remind all Nigerians that where the UK is aware of such attempts, this may have consequences for individuals. These could include their eligibility to travel to the UK, their ability to access UK based funds or lead to prosecution under international law.\ “The UK is a friend and partner of Nigeria. We hope our continued support will play a role in helping Nigeria take a further step towards consolidating the progress made since democracy returned in 1999”. In its reaction, Afenifere, pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, described the move by the two countries as a welcome development, saying the international community cannot afford to allow anything go wrong in Nigeria as such will have a negative effect on the global community. Yinka Odumakin, the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary, while calling for tough measures against sponsors of violence also urged the International Criminal Courts (ICC) to get ready to prosecute anyone who tries to disrupt Nigeria’s electoral system. “Clearly, the international community should not take Nigeria’s matter lightly because if anything goes wrong in Nigeria, it will have a serious effect on the global community. They have a problem in Syria right now which they cannot handle not to talk of over 200 million Nigerians. “If anything goes wrong here, the entire West Africa is in problem. Europe and America will also be in problem. There are millions of Nigerians with U.S., UK visas, and they will not be able to deal with it. “So, they should take tough measures against anybody who perpetrates violence in Nigeria including getting the International Criminal Courts (ICC) ready for anybody who disturbs the peace of Nigeria”, the group said. We Stand By U.S., UK Decision Against Election Riggers — CUPP Similarly, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) on Thursday backed the threat by the United States of America and United Kingdom governments to place visa ban on election riggers in the 2019 election. CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, which said that they are in full support of the decision, added that on Monday, “we will be releasing list of 15 Buhari APC associates involved in pre-election crisis.” The Coalition said: “This statement from the UK and US couldn’t have come at a better time. We have on several occasions reiterated the need for this visa ban on the perpetrators of election violence and we are glad that finally it’s going to happen.”