ABUJA – The leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Traders(NANTS) has concluded plans to meet with all political office seekers in the forthcoming general elections in a bid to secure their commitments on how to eliminate voting buying. A release on Wednesday by Bar. Ken Ukaoha, National President of NANTS, explained that the town hall meeting which is slated for Thursday in Abuja would bring together political office seekers and the representatives of political parties in the forthcoming elections. According to Ukaoha, “The meeting affords us the opportunity to touch base with candidates seeking our votes, securing their frank commitments in order to eliminate vote buying.” Daily Independent reliably gathered that the forum would also enable the umbrella body of farmers and traders in Nigeria to secure the commitments of the political candidates through the signing of the farmers’ manifesto. It would be recalled that NANTs has been in the forefront of promoting the ideals of credible, free and fair elections, as it has consistently and repeatedly canvassed for elections devoid of vote buying and other electoral malfeasance. Addressing the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Pegni, Kuje Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja recently, Ukaoha counselled them to resist the temptation of selling their votes during the forthcoming elections next month. He urged them to vote wisely during the elections, adding that they should cast their votes as their conscience dictates. Ukaoha noted that their present deplorable conditions might have been worsened by bad leadership, noting that they could change their living conditions through the election of the right people in the positions of leadership. The President of NANTS who counselled them to secure commitments from political office seekers urged them to ensure that political office seekers sign farmers manifesto before voting for them. NANTS, together with Voices for Food Security (VFS), Transition Monitoring Group (TMG) and Oxfam had developed “Farmers Manifesto”, presented to political candidates vying for elective positions to secure their commitment to take agriculture seriously if elected into positions of authority. Some of the farmers under the auspices NANTS have indicated interest to endorse and vote massively for politicians that would sign the farmers’ manifesto and place agriculture on the priority list if voted into power.