Osogbo – The residents of Osogbo in Osun State were stunned on Tuesday January 16th 2019 when a 28-year-old school bus driver of a private school, Oluwatomisin Oyelakin allegedly defiled a four-year old pupil of the school, name withheld. The Magistrate Court, sitting in the state capital, had ordered the suspect to be remanded in Ilesa prison  till February 28th 2019 when the court will entertain his bail application because his plea was not taken due to the magnitude of the offence. The mother of the innocent girl has however cried up to the authority demanding for justice for the loss of virginity of the girl at such a tender age. Investigation conducted by Saturday INDEPENDENT revealed that the girl was defiled barely 48hours after she was enrolled into the school, Charleston Groups of School located at Kelebe area of ancient city of Osogbo. It was further gathered that the girl is presently under intensive medical care because of the alleged force penetration into the girl private part leading to loss of virginity as confirmed by the police at Police Hospital, Osogbo. The police prosecutor, Temitope Fatoba had told the court that offence contravened the provision of Sections 360 and 218 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Volume II , Laws of Osun State. The mother simply identified as Mama Ope, while narrating her daughter’s ordeal said she relocated from Ibadan, Oyo State capital to Osogbo in December 2018 when the proprietress of the school, Mrs. Eniolade Badmus Adeyemi, whom they had known each other from Ibadan approached her to enroll the girl in their new school. She withdrew the girl from her formal school and enrolled her at Charleston Groups of School on Monday 15th January 2019 only to discover some blood stain in the pant and private part after urinating. The mother explained that she had arranged with the school authority for school bus because of the distance of the school to her house and then the suspect (driver) was introduced to her that he will be bringing the girl to and fro school. She stressed further that she brought the driver home and showed him the fashion designing shop. The mother said attempt to defile the girl started the very day she resumed in the school because when the driver came to pick the girl on Tuesday, she was already defiled. She (the girl) refused to go with him, insisting that she is not going to school “with uncle (driver)” that her mother should instead follow her. The mother then persuaded her, asking whether she was fighting with the driver. This was when the driver told the mother that he had quarrel with the girl when he asked her to fasten seat belt because he brought one of the cars of proprietress’ husband, Charles Akinola Adeyemi, a political figure to pick the girl. The mother said further that when she noticed blood stain in her pant and private part, she queried the girl on what happened to her and she told her mother that “uncle put something in my ‘bombom’ and its paining me.” The mother pressed further on what uncle put in her ‘bombom.’ The girl said he removed that thing from his trouser and put it in her ‘bombom’ in the front seat of the car when they were coming from the school. The matter was reported to the school proprietress and police. Police investigation and test conducted on the girl at the Police Hospital confirmed that there was penetration into her private part which caused damages to her, which resulted into bleeding. The suspect was arrested and arraigned. The mother said proprietor of school has mounted pressure on her to allow out-of-court settlement because of the alleged political ambition of the husband of the proprietress that they would do all things possible to compensate her. But she retorted that the only compensation she wanted was if the virginity of her daughter can be restored, demanding for justice from the government. Corroborating the mother, the lawyer to victim’s family, Bukola Onifade told Saturday INDEPENDENT that there are enough evidences against the suspect on defilement, saying that substance such as semen were recovered from the private part of the girl and there was forced penetration which resulted in damage to her private part. Onifade further said that the victim was able to identify the suspect that put something in her ‘bombom’ aside from the blood stained pant and blood soaked bet sheet adding that police investigation has also confirmed that the girl was defiled. The lawyer however expressed worry on pressure mounted from high authority in the government and judiciary on the mother of the girl to allow for amicable settlement of the matter. He explained that himself and mother of the girl had received several calls and pleads to step down the case. As at the time of filling this report, there are moves by the State Ministry of Education to look into the operational license of the school as it was said the school does not possess required papers to run the school. The husband of the proprietress, Charles Akinola Adeyemi has denied the alleged defilement of the girl, saying they were lies aimed to run him down. Adeyemi, while speaking on behalf of his wife, who is the proprietress of the school, said he did not want his wife to be dragged too much into the matter because she is an asthmatic patient and currently pregnant. He also insisted that the allegations were not true and that they were not carried along in all the tests conducted on the girl, insisting that the test should have been carried out at public hospital like Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Teaching Hospital , Osogbo and not Police Hospital. Adeyemi said further that the mother of the girl had issues with her wife, the proprietress of the school. He confirmed to this medium that the mother and his wife were friends right from Ibadan in Oyo State before they both relocated to Osogbo. According to him, “my family relocated in June 2018 while the mother of the girl came in December same year. She is even the one sowing dresses for my wife and got contract for the school uniform.” He maintained that the suspect is neither a staff nor driver of the school but admitted that he is working with him. He declared that there was no fracture on the girl and that the girl was playing around when they visited the mother as at the time the allegation was reported to them. He urged the parent to focus on the suspect who committed the offence and not trying to run the family down because of alleged issues between her and the proprietress of the school. Adeyemi noted that the school is just a year old with population of about 25 pupils and that it was only the mother of the girl that requested for school bus since other pupils were coming from nearby. He stressed that that was the reason why his car was used to convey the girl home. He denied attempting to use machinery of government to step down the case.