Lagos – The year 2018 was not such a spectacular year for Nigerian sports from the global and continental perspective, not even at the local level owing to some unforeseen circumstances. In all of these some Nigerian athletes were still able to make their mark among the bests that deserved recognition and accolades – in football; table tennis; track and field; basketball among others. However, here is a list of some Nigerian sportsmen and women who in all ramifications were worthy ambassadors in their various sports. Ahmed Musa. Seun Adigun, Ngozi Onwumere, Akuoma Omeoga and Simi Adeagbo. Aruna Quadri. Odunayo Adekuoroye. Evelyn Akhator. Alex Iwobi Wilfred Ndidi Asisat Oshoala Rashidat Ajibade 1.   Ahmed Musa Ahmed Musa, no doubt, is now a hero in every Nigerian household following his exploits for the Super Eagles at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. The 26-year-old forward has been a consistent performer for the senior national team over the years after his exploits with Kano Pillars in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). He has been reliable and is on course to break Vincent Enyeama’s and Joseph Yobo’s all-time appearances for the Super Eagles in the nearest future. Musa had however struggled to be a starter in the Super Eagles in the build-up to the World Cup after he relinquished the captain’s band to Mikel Obi. He took his opportunity at the world cup to remind Nigerians of his importance to the team at the tournament in Russia. His two goals against Iceland in the second group stage game of the world cup brought so much joy to Nigerians. His two goals made him Nigeria’s top scorer at the world tournament and has ever since not looked back putting in impressive performances for the team. He was on target in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier against Seychelles and Libya and was rewarded for his performance with the footballer of the year by the Nigerian Sports award. 2.   Nigerian Ice Blazers The Nigerian Ice Blazers that defied all odds to fly the country’s flag at the 2018 Winter Olympic Games. Seun Adigun, Ngozi Onwumere, Akuoma Omeoga and Simi Adeagbo The trio of Onwumere, Omeoga, and Adigun made history as the first Nigerians to qualify for the winter Olympic games in the Bobsled event. Before the year very few Nigerians had anything to do with the winter sports but the perspective on the tournament has changed due to the heroics of the Ice Blazers. Simi took inspiration from the trio as she qualified for the Skeleton event of the 2018 Winter Olympics Games. The American based athletes became the first Nigerians athlete to participate in an individual sport at the winter Olympics. Their achievement was a source of inspiration for younger athletes and received a nomination from the Nigerian Sports Award for their contribution to the development of winter sports. 3.    Aruna Quadri Nigerian Table Tennis star Aruna Quadri had an amazing 2018 in a year where football was the main focus. Quadri won so many laurels over the course of the year which saw him awarded with the Sportsman of the Year at the Nigerian Sports award for achievement in the year. Quadri started the year with the Portuguese Cup with his club side Sporting Lisbon and proceeded to win two silver medals at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in the singles and team event. The 29-year-old continued his impressive form by winning the Nigerian Open for the first time and then proceeded to pick up a ticket to represent Nigeria at the Liebherr 2018 table tennis Men’s World Cup which he participated. He rounded the year with the 2018 ITTF-African Championships which he also won for the first time. 2018 was a year that Quadri brought table tennis to the forefront of sports in Nigeria and will hope to replicate his achievement next year. 4.   Odunayo Adekuoroye Nigeria’s wrestling queen Odunayo Adekuoroye was once again at her best in 2018. Odunayo won Gold in the 57kg freestyle event of the 2018 African Wrestling Championships held in Port Harcourt Nigeria. She beat Cameroonian Joseph Essombe to achieve the feat as the African champion. Odunayo did not rest on her laurels and won another Gold medal for Nigeria in the wrestling event of the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast Australia. She and four other athletes represented Nigeria at the 2018 World Wrestling Championships even though they did not win a medal Odunayo was a stand out performer. She was rewarded with the Wrestler of the Year award at the Nigerian Sports Award beating fellow wrestler Blessing Oduduru to the award. 5.   Evelyn Akhator Evelyn Akhator was a stand out performer for Nigeria’s D’Tigress at the 2018 FIBA Women’s World Cup. The 23-year-old was impressive throughout the course of the tournament in Tenerife Spain, where she led D’Tigress to some unimaginable results. Nigeria’s D’Tigress finished eight in the 16 team tournament and became the first African country to win two games on the world stage. The African champions surprised the world and Evelyn played a crucial role in their achievements averaging 12.6 points and nine rebounds per game. She received the Basketballer of the Year and Sportswoman of the Year award for her performance over the course of the Year. 6. Victor Moses Super Eagles forward Victor Moses had another fantastic year for Club and country and is a worthy inclusion on the list. At 27-year-old Moses played for one of the best teams in world football and is one of the few Nigerian stars to participate in the latter stages of the UEFA Champions League where his Chelsea side were knocked out by Barcelona. Moses was one of Antonio Conte’s trusted generals as he played the wing back role as a starter despite the arrival of Davide Zappacosta during the transfer window. He played an integral role as Chelsea lifted the 2018 FA Cup and went on to score for the Super Eagles against Argentina in the FIFA World Cup. 7. Asisat Oshoala Asisat Oshoala has been a consistent performer when called upon to represent her country and also was a good ambassador for her country overseas. She did not participate in the Super Falcons outing at the 2018 WAFU Women’s World Cup held in Ghana as the competition did not allow foreign based players. She won the Chinese Women’s Super League with Dalian Quanjian in her second season in China. She contributed a total of 10 goals as the joint second top scorer in the league to help her team to title. Asisat then went on join with the Super Falcons of Nigeria as they won the 2018 Africa Women’s Cup of Nations. She played a key role in Nigeria’s victory leading with goals and was one of the top performers for the Super Falcons. 8. Wilfred Ndidi Wilfred Ndidi, Super Eagles midfielder was named alongside Liverpool Superstar Mohamed Salah in the France Football’s African Team of the Year. Ndidi has been a top performer for Leicester City since he joined as in his second season led the league with tackles. Rated as one of the best central young midfielders in Europe, his impressive performances in 2018 did not go unnoticed. In a report by reputable Media organization, France Football who co-ordinate the Ballon D’Or and Kopa Trophy Awards Ndidi made the list of the team of the year. 9. Alex Iwobi Alex Iwobi though, may not have won any trophy, the year under review was one of his best times with his club and country. In May 2018, after Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger announced he would be leaving the club, Iwobi described him as an “inspiration” and stated it was sad but exciting. This followed the fact that he impressed Wenger who was his source of inspiration and enjoyed regular playing time. Unai Emery has also maintained some level of confidence in him as he continues to feature regularly for the club impressively. Iwobi has been a regular for his country – Nigeria – and was part of the World Cup team in Russia 2018; he the only Nigerian that made the CAF best players top ten to justify his performance for the year 2018. In August 2018 he was profited with a new long-term contract in his club, reportedly till 2023. Source: Pulse, Wikipedia.