The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kosofe area of Lagos has stated its resolve to vote enmasse for President Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming election for having fulfilled most of the promises he made to the people, in his first term bid. A large number of APC faithful most of whom were cladded in white vest with bold pictures of Buhari/Osinbajo and APC logo, converged on the car park of the popular Mile 12 market in the heart of Kosofe, for a support rally organized by an APC chieftain in Kosofe, Chief (Mrs) Lucy Omosefe Ajayi the Executive Director of Lagos International Trade Fair Management Board. The Arewa community stakeholders in the area, market women and traders all trouped out to show their support for President Buhari and APC, describing him as a man who detest corruption and is capable of restoring Nigeria’s lost glory. The initiator Madam Lucy Ajayi, while speaking with newsmen, stated why Buhari’s second term bid will lbe a smooth one. “We are here to tell the people of Kosofe to vote APC across board, that since APC came here three and half years ago to promise them the dividends of democracy, you have heard from their mouth, you have seen the people and we are saying that we would do times two of what we have done so they should come back and vote APC across board for the 2019 elections. “Seeing is believing ‘Baba is talk nah do’he doesn’t need to talk much, you have seen all the states he had been to, you don’t need a soothsayer to tell you that it is a tsunami, you don’t need it even me the representative, if he doesn’t come here and they put ballot box, they would all vote PMB, this crowd are not rented they are voluntary, they are volunteers, they voluntarily came, I do not have money to bring crowd but you can see them all over and to tell you they all have their PVCs. Speaking on why the rally was organized in the market square, Lucy painted an historic link of a strong bond with the Mile 12 people. “Kosofe is a Federal Local Government, where I was a party chairman for CPC, so I use here Mile 12, because they have the crowd and space to accommodate us all, those you see here are from various local governments Ojo,Alaba,Apapa, Amuwo Odofin and more, the market people are very reliable, another local government, I have taken over for APC is Amuwo Odofin, you can see no sign of PDP there, come to the International Trade Fair you can see for yourself. “I have influenced the revenue drive target to the tune of 1billion naira not up to a year of heading the management board there, an unprecedented feat at the International Trade Fair all thanks to President Buhari’s intolerance for sharp practices, through Treasury Single Account (TSA), with Buhari Nigeria is on a speedy recovery path to restoration of lost glory. “You have gotten Tradermoni here is that not an improvement? Some of the people considering where they were years back, go and see them now they are the ones giving testimonies, the first lady have reeled out programmes for the women and girl child which is a bold step on her part. Another APC chieftain in the area,Alhaji Muhammadu Dandama Yabo, the chairman Arewa community Lagos State while commenting on the importance of the rally, noted that President Muhammadu Buhari’s achievement is unmatched by previous government, owing to his doggedness and untainted integrity. “Buhari makes promises and follow it through, we are sure he will be voted in again because of his passion to grow a genuine Nigeria, we all can be proud of, he is all out against stealing of our common good and this is assuring enough for us that if he should be re –elected, our country will fare better”. Dandama said.