THE 2019 BRIT Award nominations were announced this evening (Jan 12) on ITV by Clara Amfo at ‘The BRITs Are Coming’, an hour-long TV special featuring a line up of incredible live performances from 2019 BRIT nominees George Ezra, Jess Glynne, Little Mix, Mabel – who performed with Not3s – and 2019 Critics’ Choice winner Sam Fender, who was also presented with his award. UK pop sensations Anne-Marie and Dua Lipa lead the charge this year with an incredible four nominations each. Anne-Marie is up for British Female, British Single, British Artist Video of the Year, and the prestigious Mastercard British Album of the Year for debut album Speak Your Mind, which went to No. 3 in the UK charts on release last spring. Following her two BRIT wins in 2018, Dua Lipa also receives four nominations, with two in both British Single and British Artist Video categories, for her own track ‘IDGAF’ and the No. 1 Calvin Harris collaboration ‘One Kiss’. George Ezra, whose second UK No.1 album Staying at Tamara’s was the best-selling artist album of 2018, is up for three nominations: British Male, Mastercard British Album of the Year and British Single – bringing his total BRIT nominations tally to seven. One of the UK’s biggest breakthroughs of last year Jorja Smith, is also up for three nominations, British Female, British Breakthrough, and Mastercard British Album of the Year, following her 2018 Critics’ Choice win. Up for two awards are: Calvin Harris, The 1975, Little Mix, Tom Walker, Jess Glynne, Rita Ora, Clean Bandit, Florence + The Machine and Rudimental. Gorillaz are back fighting for British Group once again, having won in 2018, and Giggs receives his first ever BRIT nomination for British Male, but has stiff competition from George Ezra, Sam Smith, Aphex Twin and Craig David. This year’s nominations lists also include many previous BRITs Critics’ Choice nominees and winners: Jorja Smith (winner 2018), Mabel (nominated 2018), Anne-Marie (nominated 2017), Dua Lipa (nominated 2017), Years & Years (nominated 2015), Sam Smith (winner 2014) and Florence + The Machine (winner 2009). A host of brand new names feature in this year’s international categories: Kamasi Washington, Travis Scott and Shawn Mendes are all up for International Male against 2017 winner Drake and four time BRIT winner Eminem, whilst International Female sees Ariana Grande, Camila Cabello, Cardi B, Christine & The Queens and 2014 nominee Janelle Monae all shortlisted. Beyoncé has been nominated eight times (and won once), and JAY Z has received four nominations (and one win); 2019 sees their debut nomination for The Carters off the back of their Top Five album Everything is Love, and disco legends Nile Rodgers & Chic are at last nominated for their first BRIT award for International Group. Jason Iley, BRITs Chairman and Chairman & CEO of Sony Music UK and Ireland said: “These nominations illustrate what an incredible year it has been for British talent and remind us what a great time it is to be a music fan, both in the UK and beyond. I’m delighted to see the nominations representing talent across a wide variety of genres – from returning artists to some incredibly exciting new talent, who are set to become the stars of the future. With such a strong list of nominees, we are certain of a fiercely contested and exciting night at the awards show in February.” The BRIT Awards 2019 with Mastercard take place Wednesday 20th February at The O2 Arena, London, broadcast exclusively on ITV and hosted by Jack Whitehall. Clara Amfo and Alice Levine will be back to host this year’s Red Carpet show on ITV2 on the night of the awards for the third year running.