Amina Zakari, is a National Commissioner with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). She is presently in the eye of the storm following her appointment as Chairperson, INEC Advisory Committee and Presidential Election Collation Centre Committee. Zakari, is said to be experienced on the job, with a lot of proficiency and expertise in election management, due to her long stay with the electoral agency. All these are needed for the crucial 2019 general elections. However, the snag is that she is said to be a niece or a close relations of President Muhammadu Buhari, a major contestant in the coming election, which makes a cross section of Nigerians think that she is capable of comprising the presidential election in favour of the President. Therefore, many have been asking her to be relieved of her job as she could compromise the election or bring the integrity of the electoral agency into question. Will Prof Yakubu and Mrs Zakari cave in under the current pressure from Nigerians for her to resign or be reassigned to another duty outside being involved in real handling of the election? Or, will President Buhari move her out of INEC under the current controversy? How Amina Zakari Saga Started Amina Zakari’s issue came to the fore after the 2015 general elections, close to the end of Prof. Attahiru Jega’s tenure as the INEC chairman. Jega reportedly wrote to the then newly elected President Buhari about the imminent end of his tenure. However, as there was no response from the Presidency, Jega handed over to Amb. Mohammad Ahmad Wali, one of the National Commissioners, to act as the INEC Acting Chairman, bypassing Zakari, said to be the longest serving INEC National Commissioner then. But, Mr. President overturned it, even when it had become public that he had a filial relationship with Zakari. However, when Prof. Mahmood Yakubu was subsequently appointed as the substantive INEC Chairman, Zakari reverted to her position as a National Commissioner. 2019 Elections And Zakari’s Change Of Status But, with the 2019 general elections by the corner, Zakari was reportedly appointed the INEC National Commissioner in charge of welfare. The INEC, however, stirred the hornet nest when it was announced that she had been named the National Commissioner to head of collation centre for the presidential election, of which President Buhari, the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is a contestant. I Am In Charge, Says Yakubu But, amidst the controversy that followed the appointment, Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC boss stated: “I am absolutely responsible for the coordination of the secretariat for the collation of results. But, somebody has to prepare the venue for the conduct of the election, the internet service that we have to provide, accreditation of international observers and the media.” Presidency Denies Buhari, Zakari’s Filial Ties The Presidency, on its own, added to the controversy when it issued a statement through Shehu Garba, the President’s Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Media and Publicity, to the effect that “President Buhari and Commissioner Amina Zakari do not share a family relationship. An inter-marriage occurred in their extended families, so the imputation of blood relationship between the president and the electoral commissioner is a lie.” Zakari Speaks On her own, Zakari said she is neither the niece, nor the cousin of President Buhari. Her words, “I am not his (Buhari) niece.  I am not his cousin. I was appointed  to this same particular job by ex-President Goodluck Jonathan in 2010. Prior to that, I was appointed an Special Assistant to former President Olusegun Obasanjo  and I did my job perfectly”. Junaid Mohammed Tackles Presidency Dr. Junaid Mohammed, a vocal northern politician, however, tackle the Presidency for “trying to distance President Muhammadu Buhari from Amina” who, according to him, is the President’s blood relation. Mohammed said Buhari cannot deny Zakari, insisting that “The world must step in now and caution INEC over this deadly step towards balkanisation of Nigeria, as the people of Nigeria will not accept false election results from INEC in their bid to impose President Buhari on Nigerians with the 2019 Presidential election result. “INEC must be put on notice about the grave danger and deadly consequences of anything short of a credible election. INEC without hesitation must withdraw the evil appointment  as the 2019 general election stakes are unimaginably high.” A Plot To Set Nigeria On Fire After Polls – PDP Chietain Chief Charles Udeogaranya, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain and former presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said the appointment of Amina Zakari, as head of INEC’s collation centre as a plot to set Nigeria on fire after 2019 elections. He said: “In the worst act of election result falsification, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has commissioned their first step towards announcing fake and fictitious 2019 election results by the appointment of President Buhari’s niece, Amina Zakari, as head of INEC’s Elections Collation Centre.” Zakari Should Be Removed Or Resign – Udeze, AA Chair Barrister Kenneth Udeze, Action Alliance National Chairman and Legal Adviser, Coalition for United Political Parties (CUPP), said: “If I were to be Professor Mahmood Yakubu, chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), I will write my name in the sand of history for posterity sake. “For you to earn people’s trust and confidence as an umpire in any institution, be it sports or game of politics, anything that can make people have reservations on your integrity to supervise such game must be jettisoned. “There seems to be public outcry, particularly from the key stakeholders, over confidence and trust issues on Amina Zakari, the best any honest umpire can do is to Insist on doing the needful or resign where the hands are tied. Alternatively, in order to save democracy..Amina Zakari can as well decline the appointment for peace reign. Zakari’s Position A Threat To Credible Polls – Anike, EU Boss Charles Anike, National President of Eastern Union (EU), described the Amina Zakari issue as a very disturbing one, saying her position in INEC is a big threat to the 2019 general elections and at large to our democracy. Anike said: “There are serious and verified link of blood relationship between her and the incumbent President. Apart from politics, morality demands that she should be at the helm of the affairs of INEC especially at a time such as this, because you cannot be a judge in your own case. “If President mean well for this Country then he should without delay order that she should be redeploy to other department for peace. She has no moral standing be at upper echelon of the INEC when her uncle is a frontline contestant.” The Dangers Of Leaving Zakari In INEC, By Elebute Dr. Tunde Elebute,  a public affairs commentator, maintained that the wisest thing for either Yakubu, Zakari or even President Buhari to do is to remove her from INEC and find another position for her in another agency. He said that leaving her in INEC at this crucial time will mean preparing sufficient ground for litigations if Buhari wins the election as the APC, INEC and Buhari will likely face a hostile opposition that will use legal means to upturn his victory if he wins. Call For Zakari’s Sack Or Resignation Is Political – Lawyer Barrister Kunle Adewale, Osogbo-based laywer, said that politics might have been introduced into call by opposition that Amina Zakari should step down her position as Chairman of the Collection Committee of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Adewale while reacting to the call by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that Zakari should step down her position for alleged close relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari, said that since her appointment was not made by Buhari and she has not committed any offence to warrant her stepping down from office, the position of the opposition party is uncalled for. Adewale maintained that Zakari is a Nigerian and has every right to her official work and since her appointment can only be terminated by INEC, her employer, President Buhari has no right to ask her to step down from office if we actually want the commission to be independent. Adewale stated: “So, President Buhari cannot ask her to step down and it seems games and politics had been introduced into the matter. And since the Presidency had debunked any close relation ties, what else do we want as Nigerians? “What is expected of Nigerians is to give her close monitoring on the assignment and not to ask her to step down. She has right to her official duty. It is not by calling for he to step down that would make the opposition win the election. What of if she steps aside as being demanded and at the end, the opposition lost, who will give her the job back and if she did not step aside and opposition win? What will happen? “I want to warn that we should put less emphasis on politics than the general interest of the country. She is even supposed to be loyal to PDP since it is the PDP government that appointed her in the first instance and not Buhari. “I may be your relation and still not loyal to that person. We as Nigerians should avoid anything that can derail the forthcoming general elections.” Zakari Cannot Influence Election Result – Journalist Atori Dan, a Minna-based journalist, said: “I don’t agree with that Amina Zakari should be relieved of her appointment or resign. With the antecedents of Amina Zakari as somebody who is well grounded in the job she is doing, she should not. Let us not forget that her antecedents were the reason the former President Goodluck Jonathan appointed her, which of course, was based on merit, not because he knew her or for whatever job she was going to do then. “If the former President appointed her based on recommendations by some people, it shows she knows the job and could not have changed now to manipulate the results, as being insinuated by opposition parties simply because she is allegedly related to President Buhari. That is why I do not subscribe to the clamour that Hajiya Amina Zakari should step down from her position as the Chairman of Collation Committee of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “Agreed, political tension is building up, hence the burning distrust. That has so much polarised our political space. I will only advice that she should be allowed to do her job because by the schedule she is not the one to count the results, but simply to collate what has been counted and recorded across the states. “It will be difficult for her to influence results already counted and recorded in states before being transmuted to her in Abuja.” She Cannot Resign, Or To Step Aside – Lawyer Wilson Gbemudu IKpongban, a legal practitioner, declared: “There is no reason why she should step down from her position because there is no place in the Nigeria Constitution that says a citizen of Nigeria should be deprived of holding a certain position simply because such citizen is a blood relation of the president or governor. “Amina Zakari is only appointed to head one of the electoral committees of INEC and she is not the only person in that committee. In other words, she is not going to have the final say on that committee. She is going to report to her overall boss, who is the INEC Chairman at the end of the day who may over rule whatever report she presented. “Besides, her committee is going to collate the results from all the states of the federation, which is already known from the ward, local government and state levels, which her committee has no power to change. “So, I just believe that those people who are shouting to high heavens over her appointment have nothing doing, especially when none of them quoted any section of the Constitution to back up their argument.  In my final submission, I declare that she has no reason to step down from that position”. PDP Reports Zakari, INEC, Security Agencies To EU Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has however, taken the case of Amina Zakari, a top official of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) rumoured to be a blood relation of President Muhammadu Buhari, the electoral body and the security agencies to the European Union ahead of next month’s general elections. Speaking with European Union Election Observation Mission Nigeria 2019 on Thursday, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP spokesman, pointed out that his party’s mistake  was to have allowed All Progressives Congress (APC), which he said, has no business in governance, to take over government. Ologbondiyan expressed concern over the presence of Amina Zakari in the commission, the role of security agencies and the INEC itself. The party spokesman said that it is not only PDP that is concerned, but majority of the parties. He said: “Amina Zakari should not be found anywhere near the process. We have made our position known to INEC because there will be a direct conflict of interest.” Ologbondiyan expressed concern about the use of security agents in the past elections conducted under this administration, adding, “We believe that election should be free and fair. PDP subscribed to all the tenets of democracy. President Muhammadu Buhari is paying lip service to free, fair and transparent election. “He refused to assent to the electoral amendment bill. We are convinced that the President was never prepared for free and fair election. PDP as a party does not believe in violence, but would like presidency and INEC to conduct free and fair election, outside of this, we will not agree.” Hannah Roberts, Deputy Chief Observer of European Union Election Observation Mission Nigeria 2019, explained that they had been moving round to see the reality on ground as regards the coming elections. She said: “We will of course have a discussion with range of people, and other contenders and stakeholders. So we have to first meet variety of people. “We have observers as we have in the past spread around the country in different parts so that they can see the reality on ground. The chief observer will be coming in to observe the election. “We have contact with key person in the party, we hope you will make yourself available, so that we can know what is going on. As you know, we are invited into the country by INEC. “We can’t control anything, our mandate is to observe and make recommendations and issue statement, particularly after the election. And finally, recommendations after the election, in other to make future election better.”