LOKOJA – Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the Ukomo Igala, a  socio cultural organisation of Kogi East has called on the governments at all levels to criminalise acts of vote selling and buying and  to ensure that thuggery and other anti social activities associated with elections are curtailed. The advice was contained in a communique signed by Gen. Patrick Akpa ,president of the group at the end of the executive council meeting held at Anyigba recently . The meeting frowned at the excessive use of money to buy votes ,Permanent Voters Cards ( PVC) from the poor Nigerians,saying the actions of the politicians will hinder    freedom of free choice in an election. It noted with dismay the nonchalant attitude of government to focus on infrastructural development across the country and  advocated the need for total upgrading of infrastructures to create wealth and reduce crimes and criminality in the country. It added that Kogi East  has been  bedeviled by  lack of electricity, pipe borne water , healthcare and functional educational facilities, stressing that politicians should focus on these issues in their campaign so as to be held accountable when  they eventually clinched power. According to the group, the potent way to stem the tide of social unrest and unwarranted migration of the people of Kogi East to other states for greener pastures is for the state government to create enabling environment for them to advance their God given talents to improve their standard of livings.. Meanwhile,a group under the aegis of The Light Up Movement ‘ ( TLUM)  has   criticized protesters over the recent  attack  on the facilities and staff of the  Abuja Electricity Distribution Company in Lokoja Its chairman,  Mr Isiyak Suleiman,in a statement, described the attack as barbaric and uncalled for at a time that the company has opened its doors without hindrance  for consumers to lay their complaints. According to Suleiman, the advocacy/sensitization tour which the group is embarking in collaboration with AEDC, is to enlighten the public on channels through which consumers can have their complaints addressed. “ We have   a scheduled engagement with Ganaja Community on Jan. 16,  2019 and  they are vandalising office infrastructure on Jan. 10, to drive home their demands, leaves us to wonder. “It is the right of the consumers to seek redress and demand for better service within the ambit of the law including peaceful protest. He advised communities facing challenges to explore dialogue as a means of resolving their complaints rather than resulting in wanton destruction of properties. He assured that the Light Up Movement would continue to use every peaceful method to mediate between electricity consumers across Kogi and the AEDC.