Sina Fagbenro-Byron, presidential candidate of KOWA party in an interview with JOY ANIGBOGU said he has the capacity to proffer solution to the security challenges in the country; his party has the integrity to deliver good governance and other issues. Excerpts: Why do you can want to occupy the highest political office in the country? The highest political office, which is the Office of the President, is also Commander in Chief of the armed forces and that is the primary reason I want to occupy the office, to be principally responsible for the protection and preservation of Nigerian lands, Nigerian lives and Nigerian livelihoods. The primary threat to Nigeria now is the security threat which must as a matter of urgency be addressed. The office would also give me the authority to implement a development agenda that has been painstakingly and professionally designed. The office would also give me the powers to appoint the very best of Nigerian human resources. Occupying the office would also give me moral authority to unite Nigerians through the entrenchment of social justice and inclusion.. Being elected President will offer me the authority and capacity to immediately commence the process of restructuring Nigeria through the presentation of a new and autochthonous constitution to the people and the National Assembly in the form of the first Executive Bill of Fagbenro-Byron. Generally people tend to believe that the race is between the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) based on their structures. Do you think that you can achieve your aspiration with KOWA? As my brother and colleague Kingsley Moghalu says, ‘that is fake news’. Of course the race is not and can never be between APC and PDP alone, there are hosts of other parties. Yes those two have access to government resources at state and federal government levels. As a result of their humongous control of state resources, what else do you expect in a country where too many people are dependent on government for their survival and whose livelihoods may be threatened by sitting government, in fairness to them. They have been around and have built structures and patronage systems that are very powerful. These structures are an advantage which we cannot dispute but because they have structures that are not based on ideology or any sustainable principles; they are more like huge monuments with feet of clay. Kowa Party is the only party that I can achieve my ambition through. It is the only party that guarantees me the transparency, the ideological superiority, the moral justification and mutual leadership that can unlock good governance in Nigeria today. Kowa party has deeper roots and firmer feet that the so called huge parties who can only win the elections but cannot deliver on development. What is your view about the security challenges in the North East in respect of the forthcoming general elections? Unfortunately Nigeria is at war. For as long as North East is part of Nigeria, the nation as a whole is at war. He should learn from Jonathan and seek to quickly secure strategic advantage in at least 90% of the North Eastern space and the lives of every single Nigerian that is not in the captivity of the terrorists and insurgents.