Alhaji Ishyaku Ibrahim, who nominated former President Shehu Shagari for the presidency, revealed the behind-the-scene scenarios of how Shagari eventually emerged presidential flag-bearer of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN), during his condolence visit to the family of the late former President. HABEEZ HAZEEZ brings the excerpts: Kindly share with us how you came to know late Shehu Shagari? I met Alhaji Shehu Shagari in Paris, in 1967, through a chance meeting where late Abdulmalik asked me, if I know Alhaji Shehu Shagari and I told him that I know him on the pages of newspaper but never met him one on one. Abdulmalik said he will want both of us to work together, so that I can understudy him. From the first day we started working together, I always see him with responsible people. We spent four days working together and after some times, Abdulmalik ask me, how do you find Alhaji Shehu Shagari? and I said, “he is a gentleman, cultured, civilized, cultivated, high degree of humility.” I said he is a Prime Minister material, I swear to Almighty Allah that was the statement that came out of my mouth. Prior to our meeting, I was faced with two scholarship options of either going to New York State University to read journalism for five years at degree levels or go to Germany to read diploma in Journalism for two years. I opted to go to Germany to read diploma in journalism for two years, because as at that time I can speak elementary basic Russian language, so I was interesting in foreign language. That is why I was the first African to read journalism in Western Germany in Hannover, from 1964 to 1966. I was the one that broke the news of the January 15, 1966 coup to the Nigeria Consulate-General in Germany and the Prime Minister, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa’s whereabout is unknown, until the BBC confirmed his death. Unfortunately, we have deviated from the monolithic north late Ahmadu Bello bequeathed to us. He told us that be you a Kanuri, a Fulani, a Birom, be you a Tiv, a Nupe, we are Northerners. He told us, be you a Muslim, be you a Christians, be you a Pagan, you are a Northerner. Abdulmalik told me that they, the leaders were grooming four people, to succeed them, Late Usman Seriki who became the Etsu Nupe, he was then the Minister for Internal Affairs, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, who became Minister for Establishment and was a Permanent Secretary to Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, Late Maitama Sule and Late Ibrahim Waziri. Those were the four people they were grooming but they saw it more on President Shehu Shagari. So he was shocked the way I say he is a Prime Minister material because, at that time, we were under parliamentary system of government. You nominated Shehu Shagari, as NPN presidential aspirant, how did he eventually emerged as President? I swear to Allah, he was not aware of the plan to nominate him as NPN presidential candidate until we gathered for the zonal convention at the Murtala square, in Kaduna. He came in as a senatorial candidate from Sokoto state, which has no candidate for president. The only person who knows the secret with me was Umaru Dikko and I had warned him not to divulge the plan to anyone. At the convention, Kano has three aspirants, Maitama Sule, Inuwa Wada and Dr Datti Ahmed. Borno has Adamu Ciroma, Gongola brought Professor Iya Abubakar, Bauchi brought Ibrahim Dahiru, Benue nominated J.S Tarka and Kwara brought Dr Olusola Saraki. Because I was the head of delegation from Plateau, few minutes before we left for the convention ground, I ask them a favour, that I will like us to nominate Alhaji Shehu Shagari, they unanimously endorsed my request as the leader of the delegation. My sudden nomination of Alhaji Shehu Shagari as leader of Plateau delegates, though caught many by surprise, but the support was spontaneous. After the ballot, Alhaji Shehu Shagari has 26 votes, Adamu Ciroma has 24, because he was the candidates of the military, Professor Iya Abubakar and Dr Olusola Saraki were tied on 19 votes. Maitama Sule 18 votes, J.S Tarka has 17 votes. Inuwa Wada has three votes, while Dr Datti Ahmed and Ibrahim Dahiru scored one vote each. After the Kaduna convention, we decided to present six of the candidates before the national convention in Lagos. At the end, Shagari emerged overwhelmingly, ahead of Maitama Sule, Adamu Ciroma, Saraki, JS Tarka and Professor Iya Abubakar. From NPN presidential flag-bearer till he became Nigeria’s President, winning re-election, are all in the public domain. How did Chief Adisa Akinloye became NPN national chairman? Three people approached me with their aspiration to become NPN national chairman . One of them, Adisa Akinloye, my preferred choice eventually emerged. When Akinloye met me, I advised him to go and negotiate with the Kano delegates to get their votes. I promise to deliver Plateau, split, Niger and North Central. The second person who approached me was Chief Fani-Kayode, who was my leader when he was the deputy premier because I was able to liase between Akintola with the NNPC group. Fani-Kayode was my political boss, he was the chairman of my wedding, but when he discussed his aspiration with me, I told him to his face that I will not support him because I knew his personality and Alhaji Shehu Shagari can never work together. Shagari is a peaceful man, while Fani-Kayode is a controversial person. The third person was General (Adeyinka) Adebayo, I also told him point blank, I will not support him, because we are not going to bring a military man to be a chairman of our party. The election came for the national chairman, and Adisa Akinloye emerged the winner. Even though I know he is very crafty, but he can work peacefully with Shehu Shagari. You eulogised Shagari as someone not corrupt, but those that overthrow his government, labeled his administration as corrupt, how do you juxtapose this? In life people can say whatever they want to say, it is democracy. But have they ever said in their allegations that he is specifically corrupt?. Have they ever singled one item to say Shagari participated in this project which he was corrupt, that he took money so that they can execute the project, for him to get kickback? Let me tell you something, the second bridge in Lagos, was built by Julius Berger, and did you know Tunji Braithwaite, was the one who brought Julius Berger, when Shagari was the Minister for Works. On their own quality they won that contract and build that bridge. They took 35,000 pounds in a brief case to him because of the project and he laughed and say I can’t take money, I was doing my duty. Months later after the coup in 1966, same Tunji Braithwaite phoned him that he is coming to greet him in Sokoto, he and his team came with a chartered plane with the same briefcase contains 35,000 pounds. They said, now that you are no more a minister we have come with the briefcase we gave you that you refused. He told me that it was the 35,000 pounds he used to manage for years. He told me this story personally. Is there anything contrary you heard? I could not have nominated and promoted Alhaji Shehu Shagari, to be Nigeria President if he was corrupt.