Samuel Ogidan and  Ahmed Musa Abuja – Another round of disagreement between the executive and the legislature appears to loom following the commencement of debate on the minimum wage bill sent to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday. This was as the House of Representatives and the Senate immediately commenced accelerated hearing on the bill, suspending their rules and taking the first and second readings in one day. The target, according to the House Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, is to enable an ad hoc committee to be set up and push it through public hearing on Monday to enable the House finish work on it before the end of next week. The ad hoc panel is to be chaired by the Deputy Speaker, Yussuff Lasun, and has until Tuesday to submit its reports on the floor of the House for consideration and passage. The letter introducing the minimum wage, which was pegged at N27, 000 by the National Council of State, was read by Dogara on the floor of the House. The speaker, after reading the president’s letter, however, expressed surprise that the registered amount was N27,000 and not the N30,000 agreed with organised labour and pledged by the executive to be implemented at the federal level while states implement N27,000. “We were meant to understand that N30, 000 would be sent for legislation, but we are seeing N27,000 instead, I don’t know what happened,” Dogara said. Recall that after the approval of N27,000 by the National Council of State on Monday, the Federal Government, in a move to placate federal employees, reportedly pledged to pay the N30,000 agreed to by the tripartite committee set up to look into the matter. The arrangement, according to observers, was strictly to the benefit of federal employees while states would pay N27,000 across board to their workers. But the pledge by the Federal Government seems to have been overtaken by events as only N27,000 was reflected in the amendment proposal sent to the House. Idris Wase, Deputy House Leader from Plateau, moved the executive bill for second reading, saying that the bill required expeditious consideration following its urgency and importance to the wellbeing of Nigerian workers. Seated next to Wase was Mohammed Tahir Monguno (APC, Borno), who, on his part, recalled how Nigerian workers had remained stagnant in terms of wage review by successive governments until 2011 when President Goodluck Jonathan effected the first review in 30 years. Edward Pwajok (PDP, Plateau) also stressed the importance of the wage bill, urging his colleagues to expedite action to enable the House conclude work on the bill before going for elections. He, however, noted the absence of the variation of N30, 000 and N27, 000 agreed to by the Federal Government. He, therefore, called on the ad hoc committee that would handle the bill to note some amendments regarding the said variation as it applied to federal workers. In view of the importance of the issue which had taken longer than necessary, he urged his colleagues to expeditiously pass the bill so it could go for public hearing in the shortest possible time. Aminu Suleiman from Kano, in his submission, expressed appreciation to the speaker for speeding up the process of passing the bill, saying that Nigerians should come out en mass to give support to the bill when called upon for the public hearing. Pally Iriase (APC, Edo), in his contribution, also commended the House leadership for dealing with the minimum wage bill with dispatch so much that it was passed for second reading on the day it was brought. He said people whose livelihood had been on a fixed salary had been at the mercy of employers until the negotiations for the current proposed increase. Iriase added that while the legislature was giving the bill accelerated hearing, the House should not be seen as a rubber stamp which would pass it as it came to it. He suggested that the amount so quoted could be reviewed by the lawmakers to reflect the original agreement. “Even the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation, and Fiscal Commission was due to review its sharing formula and as such should be structured to make government cut unnecessary running cost so as to have enough to pay at least N30,000 as originally agreed,” he said. Iriase wondered why federal and state governments would find it difficult to pay living wages to workers but were religious in taking sundry allowances for themselves and their numerous aides. Other speakers such as Mukhtar Shagari (PDP, Sokoto) and Koyode Oladele (Ogun), among others, who spoke in favour of the bill, called for the reflection of the agreed amount of N30, 000 if Nigerian workers must earn a living wage to reduce crippling poverty and income inequality in the land. Similarly, the upper chamber of the National Assembly suspended its rules and gave accelerated hearing to the new minimum wage bill. But the Senate adjourned sitting for four weeks and would resume plenary on the February 19 without considering the 2019 budget. The recess is coming only two weeks after the National Assembly resumed from the Christmas break. The National Minimum Wage Bill (2019), which passed first and second readings on the floor of the Senate, was referred to a special ad hoc committee for further legislative work. The lawmakers, who contributed to the debate, said the new minimum wage, though not enough, would go a long way to addressing some of the challenges faced by workers. In his contribution, Senate Majority Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan said, “Let me congratulate the Federal Government, the 36 states of Nigeria, and stakeholders on this bill for the increase in the minimum wage from N18, 000 to N27,000. “Our civil servants will be excited about this. It may not be all they hoped, but it is still an improved situation. Nigeria cannot develop without the help of our civil servants.” On his part, Senator Shehu Sani said: “It is important that we lend our voice to see to the realisation of this bill. Even though this may not be enough, productivity is sure to increase.” Senate Minority Leader, Senator Biodun Olujimi, said: “We will work hard, but it is important that this does not become another election gimmick. Let the people who should get paid, actually get paid.” “This increase, to me, is just a little scratch,” Senator Barnabas Gemade said, adding, “I think the Federal Government should be able to pay N30, 000 as opposed to N27,000. Let us accelerate the passage of this bill, it should not be delayed any further.” Explaining why the bill was given accelerated hearing, the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, who presided over the plenary, noted that the lawmakers decided to give the National Minimum Wage Bill presented to it by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday an accelerated hearing due to its importance. Ekweremadu added that this is the first time that the 8th Senate would suspend its rules to take a first and second reading of an executive communication. The Deputy President of the Senate, who spoke after the bill passed second reading, said: “Let me congratulate the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and all those who have brought this to this point. I would also like to thank my distinguished colleagues for the speedy consideration of this bill. “This will be the first time the 8th Senate is reading an executive communication and suspending our rules to take a first and second reading and assigning the bill to a committee, all in one day. This shows how committed we are to this issue. “I believe what we have said so far will suffice in guiding the committee. Just to clarify: the new minimum wage brought to us is set at N27,000. There were news reports of N27,000 for state workers and N30,000 for Federal Government workers, but this is a single national minimum wage of N27,000. Another issue of concern is whether this affects organisations and establishments employing less than 25 persons. “If this does not affect these people, it means a whole number of people are left outside the minimum wage, and that is not right. In most countries, the minimum wage applies to all workers, regardless of the number of people in an establishment. “I believe that at the public hearing, we will be able to clarify and sort it all out. We must try our best to reduce the gap between the rich and the poor.” The special committee was, however, directed to report back within two weeks. Senate Majority Whip, Olusola Adeyeye (South West), was named the Chairman of Special Ad-Hoc Committee, other members include Abu Ibrahim, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Labour; Shehu Sani (representing the North West), Sam Egwu (South East), Suleiman Adokwe (North Central), Francis Alimikhena (South South), and Binta Masi Garba (North East). Presidency Lauds Expeditious Action On National Minimum Wage Bill Meanwhile, the presidency on Thursday praised the National Assembly over the expeditious attention given to the National Minimum Wage Bill transmitted to it on Wednesday. Umar El-Yakub, Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly matters (House of Representatives), while addressing journalists in the House, said that the president was pleased with this action, stressing that the parliament has demonstrated responsibility. El-Yakub, who expressed joy that the House took both first and second readings of the bill and scheduled Monday for public hearing, said that it has shown the kind of good working relationship that his appointment is promoting between the executive and the legislature. The SSA, who was just appointed to the House of Representatives, said that the bill was his maiden assignment, transmitted just on Wednesday to the House and it received such commendable attention. “The bill which is my maiden assignment, transmitted to the House yesterday (Wednesday) by me has been given expeditious attention. This shows responsibility on the part of the National Assembly”, El-Yakubu said. On his part, Ita Enang, SSA to President Buhari on National Assembly (Senate), who introduced his newly appointed colleague, confirmed the presidency’s pleasure with the expeditious action on the National Minimum Wage Bill by both chambers. Enang said it was a great show of comradeship and support to the struggles of the Nigerian workers. El-Yakub took over from Suleiman Kawu, who resigned to contest for the House of Representatives’ position in his constituency.