Temidayo Akinsuyi, Titilope Joseph, Samuel Ogidan and Ahmed Musa Lagos / Abuja – The Senate is preparing for showdown with President Muhammadu Buhari over the suspension of Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, it was learnt on Sunday. Most of the senators that spoke with Daily Independent on Sunday said the “breach” by the president cannot stand. They all agreed that the suspension of Onnoghen will define the country’s democracy, noting that the president has crossed the red-line. A source also told Daily Independent that majority of the senators who are piqued by the development would reverse the suspension of the CJN and ask that due process be followed. “The senators will reverse the suspension since they were the ones who cleared the CJN in the first place. They will insist, whether the CJN is guilty or not, that due process be followed,” he said. The Senate had on Saturday called off its break for an emergency session tomorrow to debate the legality or otherwise of Onnoghen’s suspension. In an announcement signed by the Clerk of the Senate, Nelson Ayewoh, the Senate resumption earlier scheduled for February 19 has been rescheduled for tomorrow. However, the presidency is not resting on its oars, as it has extended invitation to all APC senators and senatorial candidates for a meeting at the Villa. The meeting scheduled for today at the State House Banquet Hall, signed by the Director General of APC Presidential Campaign Council, Rotimi Amaechi, would hold by 7:30p.m. It was gathered that the meeting was to lobby the APC senators to counter whatever decision that would be taken in the Senate tomorrow that would be against the president. Daily Independent learnt that the Senate is planning sanction against the president. Although, the nature of the sanction against the president could not be confirmed as at Sunday, it was gathered that many lawmakers are of the opinion that the suspension of Onnoghen was a terrible breach of section 292 of the constitution which provided procedures for removing the CJN from office. Section 292 (1) of the constitution provides that “A judicial officer shall not be removed from his office or appointment before his age of retirement except in the following circumstances – (a) in the case of – “Chief Justice of Nigeria, President of the Court of Appeal, Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Chief Judge of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Grand Kadi of the Sharia Court of Appeal of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and President, Customary Court of Appeal of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, by the President acting on an address supported by two-thirds majority of the Senate.” (ii) Chief Judge of a State, Grand Kadi of a Sharia Court of Appeal or President of a Customary Court of Appeal of a State, by the Governor acting on an address supported by two-thirds majority of the House of Assembly of the State, Praying that he be so removed for his inability to discharge the functions of his office or appointment (whether arising from infirmity of mind or of body) or for misconduct or contravention of the Code of Conduct; (b) in any case, other than those to which paragraph (a) of this subsection applies, by the President or, as the case may be, the Governor acting on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council that the judicial officer be so removed for his inability to discharge the functions of his office or appointment (whether arising from infirmity of mind or of body) or for misconduct or contravention of the Code of Conduct.” In other words, a sitting CJN can only be removed from office by the president after at least two-thirds majority members of the Senate support such a move. Also reacting to this development, Sergius Ose Ogun, a member of the House of Representatives, described the suspension of Onnoghen as a dangerous precedent. Ogun, who represents Esan South/Esan North East Federal Constituency of Edo State, on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), also expressed concerns on the likely effects of the development on the nation’s economy. He said on Sunday in Abuja that members will reconvene tomorrow to reach a resolution with a view to forestalling further division among the citizenry. “For me, I think it’s very dangerous, it’s desperation, if you ask me. But I believe the House will reconvene on Tuesday and this matter will be trashed out. But outside that, I think the National Assembly will come out with a resolution. It’s condemnable because this is a growing democracy and I don’t see any reason they should react like this. The best thing is to allow the law to take its course, that’s what I think”. Asked if the tone and emotions with which the leadership of the National Assembly reacted to the issue could lead to impeachment proceedings against the president, the lawyer cum lawmaker reacted thus: “Impeachment is highly political, and there’s really no time for that now as time is far gone. It’s really late in time, and as you know, impeachment process takes months to materialise, by which time elections must have come and gone and we will be talking about swearing in of the new government.” “But I keep saying that election is a process leading to an event. And for a growing democracy, at the end of elections you will still have the people, after elections there will still be Nigeria, the people will be there, but some of these things can damage the very fabric of this country. “And if this desperation leads to that damage, what would you do with election victory when you have a divided country? And that can affect our economy, it can affect the peoples psyche and lead to serious poverty. How many people from overseas would want to come and invest with this kind of upheaval? “And as you know people have spoken against this assault on the rule of law, I mean the international community, so how do you think they will allow their people to come and invest in a country where there’s no respect for the rule of law? “What it means is that when their investment runs into legal challenges, they are not sure of getting justice, and no business venture can be safe in an environment where the laws are not applied and respected. “If a businessman gets into any problem, there will be no fairness and you won’t get favourable judgment at the court. Nobody will bother to bring money into this economy with what’s happening, and those are the dangers of it all”, Ogun stressed. But the All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in the Senate at the weekend vowed to resist any attempt by the presiding officers of the National Assembly to initiate impeachment proceedings against President Muhammadu Buhari over Onnoghen’s suspension. Speaking on behalf of APC senators, former Senate Leader, Ali Ndume, told reporters in Abuja that the president did not breach the constitution by his action. He said: “As members of the APC in the National Assembly, we will put the nation’s interest above any parochial or sectional consideration in dealing with the issue. “However, if anybody wants to start another trouble in the Senate over the issue, we are ready. We have the number; we have the strength because we constitute the majority. “It’s just that the Senate leadership wants to play to the gallery; otherwise, I don’t see the same leadership that accused the judiciary of meddling in its affairs now moving against the president for fighting corruption in that arm of government.” CUPP Raises The Alarm Over Plot To Forcefully Impeach Saraki, Dogara Meanwhile, the Coalition of Political Parties (CUPP) on Sunday raised the alarm over plot to violently impeach the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. The CUPP alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC Federal Government is going for the final collapse of the constitutional democracy in the country. Addressing newsmen in Abuja at a press conference, the spokesman of CUPP, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, listed Ahmed Lawan, Hope Uzodinma and Godswill Akpabio as senators positioned to take over from Saraki and others. He also listed Femi Gbajabiamila and Abdulmimin Jibrin as Reps members to take over from Dogara and others. He said that while Lawan is taking over as Senate President, Uzodinma would be announced as Deputy President of the Senate and Akpabio as Senate Leader. In the House, Gbajabiamila would be announced as Speaker, while Jibrin would be announced as the Deputy. According to Ugochinyere, the fresh plot to forcefully takeover the leadership of the National Assembly has received the nod of President Muhammadu Buhari. “The APC-led Federal Government is of the firm belief that Tuesday is their best and last chance to effect the changes as their control of the judiciary will be put to use to ensure there is no reversal of justice for the present occupants. “The Senate will reconvene on Tuesday to discuss the suspension of Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, by President Muhammadu Buhari. The APC is ready to do whatever and destroy the very fulcrum of our constitutional democracy on Tuesday and have vowed, it is tomorrow or never. “The judicial coup which they believed was supposed to be more difficult went very easily beyond their imagination hence the need to complete the takeover of the National Assembly immediately so that the distraction of the election campaigns will be put to use. “They have also resolved that the government will make some big positive announcements tomorrow being Monday, January 28 so as to deflect the minds of Nigerians. Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Chibuike Amaechi and Babatunde Fashola have been saddled with the responsibility of choosing the issue for announcement by the government. “The decision on who will be the House leader will be resolved by the trio of Bola Tinubu, Adams Oshiomhole and Sen. George Akume. “The arrowheads of this plot in the National Assembly include Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, Ali Ndume, George Akume and Kabiru Gaya. While the members of the House who are part of this plot include Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, Hon. Abdulmimin Jubril and Hon. Agbonayima. “To ensure the plot goes successfully, the Federal Government has mapped out the sum of $70, 000 for each senator and $40, 000 for each House member for what it called welfare since majority of them will be compelled to be in town suddenly. “The money for the bribes have already been released to Senator Lawan and Hon. Gbajabiamila for onward distribution to their members as they return. The money amounting to $15 million ($8 million for the House and $7 million for the Senate) was sourced from NNPC, CBN, NDDC, NPA, NIMASA, a commercial bank and a company the owner of whom is a member of the cabal. “Nigerians are hereby put on notice that these coupists are plotting that Sen. Saraki, the Senate President, Sen Ike Ekweremmadu, the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ben Bruce and Sen. Dino Melaye, Biodun Olujimi, Hon. Dogara, Kingsley Chinda, Nnena Ukeje, among others, would be stopped by security agents from gaining entrance into the National Assembly. “Thugs have been mobilised from Plateau, Kwara and Kogi to mount protest at the gates of the National Assembly and have the approval to attack and disperse any group that come to hold a counter rally.” PDP Alerts On Moves To Bribe Senators Similarly, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has alerted Nigerians of alleged moves by certain agents of the Buhari presidency to bribe senators of APC to protect President Buhari from imminent parliamentary sanctions for alleged constitutional breaches and gross misconduct. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “Intelligence available to the PDP shows that this is the reason the jittery presidency had summoned all APC senators to the Presidential Villa to a clandestine meeting on Monday night, ahead of the Senate’s resumption tomorrow. “The PDP has been informed of how the Buhari presidency has been unsettled following national and international outcry over his constitutional breaches, particularly the assault on the judiciary in his attempt to forcefully remove the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen and impose a pliable CJN to do his bidding. “President Buhari is not only apprehensive that the Senate might sanction him for violating the constitution and usurping its statutory duties regarding the handling of issues related to a CJN, the parliament might also open an inquest into how President Buhari, who parades as Mr. Integrity, allegedly procured an Order from the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) upon which he announced the illegal suspension of the CJN. “There are reports that the said order is suspicious and subject to investigation, being not argued or issued in the open court; following which a distressed Buhari presidency now seeks to corrupt and undermine the Senate.” CJN Can Still Reclaim His Position If Cleared By Tribunal – Sagay Also speaking with Daily Independent, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), on Sunday said Buhari only suspended the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) and had not removed him from office. Sagay said if Onnoghen, who was suspended by the Federal Government following a recommendation of the Code of Conduct Tribunal, was eventually cleared of all wrongdoings, he would automatically resume to his position as the Chief Justice of Nigeria. “I have been questioned on this matter and I have said the suspension of the former CJN by President Muhammadu Buhari is both morally and legally valid. “Morally, it is valid because as head of such a major institution, where you are supposed to show standard of ethics and good conduct, where such an allegation is made against you, even if you have to defend it, you must step down. “You must step down because the charges will be heard in institutions which are headed by you, the CJN. There is no way it is going to be a fair process if you are still sitting there at the top and your underlings are the ones hearing the petitions that have been brought against you. So, it is not just morally right for him to remain there while the case is being heard. “On the legal issue, I have two approaches, which is that a tribunal, which is a court of law, has made an order and the government is bound to carry out that order. That is exactly what has happened. The order by the tribunal is that the CJN should step down immediately. “The moment that order was issued, the CJN ceased to be Chief Justice of Nigeria. He became acting because that order did not sack him but stepped him down from his position, pending the hearing of the case. So, with that order, the CJN is no longer in a position to exercise his power as Chief Justice pending the hearing of the petition.” NJC Meets Today The National Judicial Council (NJC) has summoned an emergency meeting over the suspension of Walter Onnoghen today in Abuja. Sources told Daily Independent that the emergency meeting was called by some members of the NJC. They said neither Onnoghen nor the acting Chief Justice will be allowed to preside over the meeting. SERAP Gives NJC Five Days To Take Over CJN’s Case The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged the National Judicial Council (NJC) to immediately take over from the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) the case of Justice Walter Onnoghen in order to investigate the allegations against him. The organisation also urged the NJC to ask Justice Onnoghen to step aside from his role as Chief Justice pending the outcome of investigation into the allegations against him. It also said if the allegation against Justice Onnoghen was established, the NJC should refer the case to the appropriate anti-corruption bodies for prosecution, adding that acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammed, would then recuse himself from the process as the Ag. CJN. The petition, dated January 26, 2019, and signed by SERAP’s senior legal adviser, Bamisope Adeyanju, was addressed to the next-in-rank to the Chairman of the National Judicial Council (NJC). “The urgent intervention by the NJC would remove the allegations against Justice Onnoghen from the vicissitudes of political controversy, and a clear and present danger to the independence and authority of the judiciary. It would also help to reverse the country’s increasing movement toward anarchy or despotism,” the group stated. According to SERAP, “It is in times like this that the NJC must be most vigilant and alive to its constitutional duties, if it is not to permit a diminution of our treasured constitutional rights.” The petition was copied to Mr. Diego García-Sayán, UN Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers. Part of it reads: “Neither knee-jerk reactions by politicians nor abuse of the legal and judicial process by the government and some senior lawyers would be acceptable to break the constitutional logjam. The NJC ought to be concerned with the gravity of allegations against Justice Onnoghen. “This matter has inevitably thrown our country into a judicial-cum-constitutional crisis, which if not urgently addressed would lead to political crisis that would seriously put at risk Nigeria’s fledgling democracy, consequently exacerbating the declining respect for human rights at all levels of government. “The NJC should not and cannot stand by while the authority and independence of the judiciary is diminished to the point at which the citizens lose confidence and trust in its ability to render justice to those need. “SERAP is concerned that the politicisation of our judiciary poses the greatest threat to the independence of the judiciary, to Nigeria’s fledgling democracy, and would if not urgently addressed lead to denial of access to justice to the most marginalised and vulnerable section of the population. “The politicisation of the judiciary by politicians would endanger Nigerians’ fundamental human rights and the country’s international human rights obligations, and consequently, the fundamental principles of our constitutional democracy. “It is the responsibility of the NJC to ensure the preservation of our constitutional values and to prevent the politicisation of the judiciary and politicians from running roughshod over sacred judicial functions, and consequently, the rights of citizens. “Nigerians deserve a judiciary capable of serving as essential bulwark of constitutional government, a constant guardian of the rule of law, and owing fidelity to no person or party. “Unless the NJC acts as requested, the mandates, ability and authority of the judiciary to act as a check on the political branches of government and to protect citizens’ human rights would be drastically curtailed. “The allegation that Justice Onnoghen failed to declare his assets as required by the Nigerian constitution of 1999 (as amended) and the arbitrary response by the Federal Government have thrown our judiciary into a crisis, with politicians seemingly taking full advantage of the crisis, resulting in the politicisation of the judiciary. “Many politicians have failed to consider the matter through a constitutional lens and have in fact made statements that may be considered prejudicial to the cause of justice, the interests of the judiciary and Nigeria. “As the Senate prepares to sit to discuss the matter, the situation is likely to be even more politicised, especially at the time of election when politicians jostle for position, power, and relevance. Any intervention by the Senate is likely to be politically motivated and would not satisfactorily break the logjam. “Many Nigerians would see the suspension of Justice Onnoghen as outright intimidation of the judiciary in the hope of making it more deferential to certain politicians, as judges prepare to hear flood of election petitions that are expected to follow the general elections in February and March 2019. “Suspending the Chief Justice of Nigeria by an ex parte order obtained via an apparently flawed legal and judicial process is an absurdity too gross to be allowed to stand. It suggests the constitution is no longer the supreme law of the land.” “Furthermore, SERAP is concerned that the allegations of violation of asset declaration provisions by Justice Onnoghen have created a palpable and rising distrust of the judiciary by the citizens, a distrust that may be exacerbated by the politicisation of the judiciary by politicians across party lines. “The allegations against Justice Onnoghen unless properly and constitutionally resolved would continue to undermine his ability to faithfully discharge and perform his judicial duties as Chief Justice. At a time of judicial-cum-constitutional crisis, the NJC should not and cannot abdicate its constitutional responsibilities to intervene in this matter. “Judges have the responsibility to uphold the rule of law as an effective check on the political branches. But the judiciary cannot continue to play its traditional role as the guardian of the constitution until the Justice Onnoghen’s matter is constitutionally and satisfactorily addressed.”