Temidayo Akinsuyi and Joy Anigbogu Lagos – Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has pointed out that Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate, would be a president to all Nigerians and not president to only those who would vote for him. The former president made the remark at the Island Club’s 2019 Quarterly Business Lecture on Wednesday, in Lagos. Talking about Atiku’s capacity to lead the nation, Obasanjo said as a leader one must understand the fundamental of the problems that he or she had to solve, readiness to reach out to knowledgeable men and women for solutions that would benefit humanity. “I have been called names because of my position on Atiku. Those things that I said as far as my knowledge of Atiku is concerned are very true. “What I wrote about Buhari has been confirmed to be true. The way Buhari’s government has been going has shown that it is not ready to defend our democracy or Nigeria’s progress, and so Nigerians must do it themselves,” he said. He continued: “Atiku has done one thing which is necessary for a leader to be believed or followed. He made mistakes and had accepted his mistakes and asked for forgiveness. “I forgave and I am sure Nigerians will do their part by voting for him. A leader should be susceptible to mistakes. When you have corruption under your nose you are busy preaching fight against corruption. “Atiku had not claimed to be a saint and I did not describe him as such. He has accepted his mistakes and that is what a good leader should do and not look for someone to pass the bulk to.” Expressing confidence in majority of Nigerians voting for Atiku on the day of election, he said he was sure that they would vote for Atiku so that they would experience genuine change that they had been yearning for. He pointed out that Atiku would be a president that would be in charge of affairs and not one that would allow a group of cabal to control his government. The former president said he wanted to use the opportunity to clear some false news that he did not allow Atiku to preside over the Federal Executive Council (FEC). He explained that he did not have to hand over to Atiku as acting president because he did not have any reason to be absent from office for 104 consecutive days. He stressed that the constitution was very clear on the position of the duties of the vice president, and pointed out that Atiku actually presided over the Federal Executive Council meeting any time he was not around. Atiku, who delivered the quarterly lecture, disclosed that he would take practical steps to reposition the economy and restore investors’ confidence in it, if elected. In the lecture titled, ‘My Vision to Get Nigeria Working Again,’ Atiku said he would support the private sector by undertaking reforms that would unleash growth in the economy. “We will restore confidence in the Nigerian economy. We will implement policies to drive growth. “Today, Ghana – a country with just 14 percent of our population – attracts more Foreign Direct Investment than Nigeria. “In order to reverse the trend, our economic policies would be more coherent, consistent and therefore more predictable by the business community. “Nothing could be more threatening to investment flows than an environment that is full of policy flip-flops.” While unravelling major issues embodied in his #The Atiku Plan for the economy, the PDP candidate said he would create the environment for a strong, productive, pro-growth private sector to create opportunities, jobs, and fight poverty. He promised that his government would constantly engage the private sector in policy design and policy implementation. Atiku emphasised that he would liberalise the economic space and privatise all the ailing public enterprises, including the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). “The #AtikuPlan will undertake a de-regulation of the downstream sector of the economy, review the PIB and privatise all four state refineries that operate less than 10 percent of their installed capacities. “We shall channel the proceeds from the privatisation into a special fund for the development of education and health,” he said. He added that he would assist Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to grow and play their expected roles in the economy through the right policies and programmes. The PDP candidate said he would increase investments in human capital, especially in health and education, as the people were the fundamental reason for economic growth. “We will create jobs by growing the economy, by promoting innovative flagship, job creation programmes such as the National Open Apprenticeship Programme, through which we shall enhance the capacity of master craftsmen and women to train one million apprentices every year. “Our National Innovation Fund and SME Venture initiatives will provide stable and sustainable long-term support to aspiring entrepreneurs. “We will create an Economic Stimulus Fund with an initial investment capacity of approximately $25 billion to support private sector investment in infrastructure,” he said. Atiku also promised to embark on a workable power reform to improve power supply. He also promised to improve liquidity by undertaking fiscal restructuring if elected. He said repositioning the economy required a government that has the right focus, adding that the PDP would meet the economic goals of Nigerians, if elected. Speaking on the recent suspension of the former Chief Justice of the Federation, Walter Onnoghen, Abubakar described the Federal Government‘s action as wrong. He said the constitution already spelt out the rules for the suspension and removal of the CJN, pointing out that due process was not followed in Onnoghen’s suspension. He urged all Nigerians to use the opportunity of the February elections to vote the candidate with the right competence to govern the country. Atiku thanked the Island Club, a foremost social club in Lagos, for the platform to speak and articulate his economic vision for Nigeria. Besides Obasanjo, other prominent Nigerians at the lecture were Senate President Bukola Saraki; PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, and Sen. Ben Murray-Bruce. Others were PDP chieftain, Chief Bode George; PDP governorship candidate in Lagos, Jimi Agbaje, and former governor of Ogun State, Gbenga Daniel. Atiku Denies Perpetrating Corruption While At Customs Atiku Abubakar has dismissed allegation that he used his position in the Nigeria Customs Service to perpetrate acts of corruption. Abubakar made the remark on Wednesday in Abuja at a town hall meeting organised by the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and Daria Media with support from the MacArthur Foundation. The town hall meeting tagged, ‘The Candidates’ is a two-hour televised series which features presidential and vice presidential candidates of four leading political parties. The parties were selected from the results of multiple polls aggregated by the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD). The Customs allegation followed the controversial importation of 53 suit cases into the country in 1984 by a first class traditional ruler in the North. Abubakar was the Customs Officer in Charge of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport when the suit cases were brought into the country. He also refuted allegations that one of his wives had a case of money laundering to face in the United States of America, and could therefore, not travel abroad since the allegation. “My wife has not been indicted and she has not been charged, so there is no way you can hold her accountable, she has been traveling to America very often,” he said. The PDP presidential candidate stressed that he had the experience to ensure the development of the country and make it the envy of other nations. According to him, the present All Progressives Congress (APC) administration has not been able to deliver on its three cardinal campaign promises in 2015, which included security, economy and fighting corruption. Abubakar said that he is the bridge between the future and the present, stressing that he had all it would take to get the country working again. Peter Obi, Abubakar’s running mate and a former governor of Anambra, who also featured at the town hall meeting, said Atiku had the capacity to address the country’s growing unemployment statistics. “If you look at his cumulative experience, his age notwithstanding, you will agree with me that he had what it will take to address the country’s developmental challenges,” he said. Obi also refuted allegations that as governor of Anambra, he used his position to register a company with most of his family members as shareholders, saying he left large sums of money in the state account at the end of his tenure. Saraki Won’t Return To Senate, APC Vows Meanwhile, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday said it had not given up on its belief that Senate President Bukola Saraki was a usurper who needed to vacate his position since he now belonged to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which is in minority at the Senate. The party also said it was confident that the forthcoming elections would dash Saraki’s hopes of returning to the Senate as the people of Kwara Central would reject him as their representative at the polls. Saraki was elected as Senate President in June 2015, much to the chagrin of the APC leadership which had pencilled down Senator Ahmed Lawan for the position. Several efforts by the party to remove him from the position have failed. Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the APC National Chairman, has been at the forefront of Saraki’s removal since his defection to the PDP. He insisted that the position was for the APC, the party with majority members. On his part, Saraki has vowed to keep his seat, saying he would only step down if he lost the support of majority of senators. Speaking with Daily Independent, Lanre Issa-Onilu, the National Publicity Secretary of the APC, said the party had not given up on its position that Saraki was a usurper who should vacate his position for the APC. He, however, said it would not allow Saraki distract the party and the government of President Muhammadu Buhari from fulfilling its promises to Nigerians. He said: “We have never given up on the issue of Saraki remaining in position as Senate President. We will continue to regard him as a usurper. “There is nowhere in the world, in a presidential system of government, where the minority sits as the leader of the National Assembly, be it in the Senate or House of Representatives. It is for the party in the majority to decide who the leader is. “Though we see him as a usurper, we are a serious government. We have a responsibility towards governance. “This is somebody whose main interest is to ensure that we don’t have the opportunity to do those things that we have promised to do for the people of this country. “We won’t allow such a person to constitute a hindrance to governance. So, we have to be practical and pragmatic as possible in a way that we will be able to deliver on our promises. Issa-Onilu also said the APC was confident that Saraki would not return to the Senate for another term. “We know that election will take care of him. His people are going to reject him. The people of Kwara Central will reject him at the polls come February. So, he is not a major issue for us now. “The major task before us is to continue to execute those major projects that we are executing, come up with policies and programmes that will positively impact on the lives of Nigerians. “We are focusing on things that will make Nigerians renew our mandate in this election. But that doesn’t mean we ignore the fact that he is a usurper who is sitting on the seat that doesn’t belong to him,” he said. Also speaking to Daily Independent, Saraki who spoke through Alhaji Yusuph Olaniyonu, his Special Adviser on Media, described the statement by the APC as an empty wish which would not materialise. He also sounded a note of warning that the APC would meet its waterloo in Kwara if it attempted to rig the elections through federal might. He said: “It is an empty wish. They are not God who can determine the future of anyone. The people of Kwara know those who are with them. “These people talking are visiting politicians to Kwara. They are the type of people we refer to as seasonal politicians.”