LAGOS – Sex is sweet and beautiful in many instances; and safe sex, they say, is great sex. But what if safe sex could kill you, would sex still be great, sweet and beautiful? Lauretta (not real name), a budding dancer in one of Nigeria’s foremost theatre companies was heard complaining to a friend that whenever she has sex with condoms, it takes a few days for her vagina to feel better. She further shared that when the sex is with her boyfriend and she goes without a condom, she is able to have multiple rounds of sex without any pain. Her friend was of the opinion that maybe she had an infection that is made worse with a condom. This friend further advised Lauretta to take antibiotics to treat the symptoms whenever she felt discomfort after sex, an advise which Lauretta said she would take Another friend who was privy to the conversation explained that what Lauretta really needs is more lubrication that probably the lubrication on the condom dries up, so she should keep extra lubrication in her handbag whenever there was the possibility of sex with a partner who is not her boyfriend. The truth is that this conversation, which Saturday INDEPENDENT was privy to, is an indication of the level of ignorance rampant in some sexually active Nigerians. What Lauretta above is describing could be as a result of an undiagnosed latex allergy and may be solved by abstinence or using condoms without latex. Yes, there is no doubt that condoms, latex, was and till date remains one of the bests options for safe sex: that is asides abstinence, and for decades now, the safe sex campaigns have been headlined by condom companies because their products are considered one of the best ways to prevent against Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs), unwanted pregnancies, and a host of other problems. While condoms are not a 100 per cent protection, they do come close because they offer the best available protection by acting as a physical barrier to prevent the exchange of semen, vaginal fluids or blood between partners. Safe sex is also called ‘safer sex’ to highlight the fact that condoms and other barrier methods are not 100 per cent effective in preventing STIs. But the universally accepted fact remains that when used correctly, condoms do offer the best available protection in vaginal, anal and oral sex. Condoms date back at least several centuries and perhaps beyond. For most of their history, condoms have been used both as a method of birth control and as a protective measure against sexually transmitted diseases. Condoms have been made from a variety of materials; prior to the 19th century, chemically treated linen and animal tissue (intestine or bladder) are the best-documented varieties. Rubber condoms gained popularity in the mid-19th century, and in the early 20th-century major advances were made in manufacturing techniques. Prior to the introduction of the combined oral contraceptive pill, condoms were the most popular birth ‘control’ method in the Western world. In the second half of the 20th century, the low cost of condoms contributed to their importance in family planning programs throughout the developing world. Condoms have also become increasingly important in efforts to fight the AIDS pandemic. The oldest condoms ever excavated were found in a cesspit located in the grounds of Dudley Castle and were made from an animal membrane, the condoms dated back to as early as 1642. Today, with headway made in development, the male condom is traditionally a fine, strong, latex-rubber sheath available in a variety of sizes and styles, and to be effective, it must be used from the start of sex to the very end as STIs can be transmitted via pre-ejaculate. As effective as condoms are though, they, unlike other innovations, are not the condom of the future. The underlying problem, allergy to condoms, or as medical professionals label it, latex allergy has still not been solved. A study by the American Latex Allergy Association in 2016 states that approximately three million people (or 1% of the general US population) have a latex allergy. While that number is based on the data available and covers only those who at the time used condoms, it gives a fair insight into the problem. In Nigeria, where most of the general populace is not too informed and there is a dearth of data, coupled with a higher population, that number could be tripled. Latex allergy, while not limited to condoms according to Dr. Ayoola who works with a reputable medical facility in Lagos Island is also common among professionals who use latex gloves in their day to day activities. “Latex is a natural sap from the rubber tree Hevia brasiliensis, and the allergy usually affects healthcare workers and others like hairdressers who have repeated exposure to latex-containing products like gloves and catheters. You also find latex allergies in condom users. The truth is that latex allergy is more likely to develop in individuals who have other allergies, and it is usually caused by repeated exposure to minute quantities of latex,” she said. Speaking on what to look for, Dr. Ajike Ayoola explained that there are immediate reactions like “hives /urticaria, itchy eyes, itchy or a runny nose, sneezing, wheezing, coughing, asthma, and swelling of the throat, anaphylaxis. But there are also delayed reactions which we call contact dermatitis like red, itchy /crusted lesions on exposed areas.” On how to diagnose a latex allergy, Ayoola explained that it is not an easy diagnosis to make. “The most common way to spot the problem is when there is a history of symptoms occurring within an hour of exposure to latex or other rubber products. This is usually suggestive of latex allergy. It can be confirmed by blood tests or by latex skin prick test. A prick test must be conducted in a hospital with resuscitation facilities though.” When asked if there were treatment options available, Ayoola replied, “Of course, the first thing to do is discontinue use of any latex product because it is essential to avoid further exposure to latex to prevent progression of symptoms. There are other necessary steps that would be advised by your doctor.” Adenike Adams (not real name), mother of two shared that “I didn’t become sexually active until I got married so there were so many things I was not aware of. I’m a microbiologist, so I use powdered gloves from time to time in my work, but I never had a problem. After I got married, my husband still had five months to go before coming home to settle with me. He was doing a course in Ghana at the time. We had decided that we would wait till he completed his course before pregnancy, so the easiest thing for us to do was to use condoms. Whenever he was around for a week or two, we would have a lot of sex with condoms, and I noticed over time that after sex I would start to itch and feel sore, something that never happened in the first few weeks of our marriage. “Initially, I thought my husband was already cheating, but when we discussed it and tested for the usual infections, I found out that I was clean, so I chalked it up to not being properly lubricated. The symptoms continued till the five months were over, then all of a sudden they stopped. After I had my first child, we resumed the use of condoms, and the symptoms came back. That was how I realised I was allergic to something in condoms. For some reasons though, I can still tolerate latex gloves but condoms have become a no-go area for me.” Saturday INDEPENDENT sought out Dr. Omotunde Green, a medical practitioner, and he explained that ”Usually, allergies involving condoms are latex allergies. Most condoms are made from latex and it is important that one knows which of the properties of the condom the patient is reacting to because condoms come with lubricants. You have the rubber, which is the latex, and you have the lubricant. More often than not, the usual presentation is a mild skin reaction which we call contact dermatitis or allergic contact dermatitis. The one that is the most serious and brings people to the hospital is hypersensitivity, which is an immediate allergic reaction that causes systemic discomfort. “Whoever is going through an allergy should be able to know the particular kind of condom that causes the allergy, that would determine if it is the rubber or latex the individual is reacting to or the lubricant that comes with it. There have been cases where a particular, named condom is reacted to and when you try another one, there is no reaction. Some of them come with spermicide. Spermicides are chemical agents that destroy the sperm. This means that some people may be reacting to the spermicide and not the latex that is used in producing the condom. So one must be able to identify which is which. Usually, it could just be an immediate irritant, contact reaction that occurs a few minutes after sex. In that case, the woman is complaining of itching. The second type is the one where within the hour, post-sexual contact, you see redness in the vagina and some swelling, which is what we call contact dermatitis. The third one is an immediate allergic reaction that becomes systemic; it follows the pattern of Hay Fever where there is a nasal allergy, conjunctivitis, itching, chest pain, trouble breathing and other symptoms. It is the most serious type, although it is not the commonest, and it can be life-threatening because along with the other symptoms, the blood pressure can become very low, like an anaphylactic shock.” Dr. Omotunde further shared on treatment options that “when it comes to allergy, the most important thing to remember is that prevention is better than a cure. After the first contact, don’t assume, find out exactly what you are allergic to. If it is latex, such a person might have an allergy to wearing substances made from rubber. When some people wear something as small as a rubber band on their wrist, they have some skin changes. Some react to rubber boots, latex underwear or sportswear. Those are all indicators of a latex allergy.” In a country like Nigeria where we don’t thrive on information and research so much like the Western world, some of those symptoms may be discounted and chalked up to heat and weather conditions in Nigeria. Dr. Omotunde answers that “I’ve seen cases like that and all I advise them to do is to stop wearing stuff like that. Once they stop, the symptoms clear up.” For sex workers and sexually active people with multiple partners, they tend to use multiple products and may find it difficult to determine exactly what they may be reacting to. Dr. Omotunde advises vigilance and taking time to study literature that comes with products. “What we don’t do in Nigeria is read pharmacology literature enough. We buy products to use and do not bother to read the content or literature attached to the product. Even when you buy condoms, there is a leaflet with literature attached to them. Many of the information needed is already listed there. More often than not, people don’t even realise their symptoms are allergic reactions or that the condom can be a problem. They think it is an infection or something and they simply get over the counter medication to treat the symptoms, so they do not show up in the hospital. It is only in severe cases that we see these things in the hospital. “My advice is that when you buy a product, read the literature. Some people do not even know that some condoms have spermicide. There are different kinds of condoms, there are male condoms and female condoms, and they all come with latex though in different chemical formations and percentages, so while it may be high in some products, it is lower in others. Most importantly, you must know whether it is the latex you are reacting to or the lubricant or spermicide. What is food to one person is poison to another. This awareness would point people in the right direction.” Condoms, even when used correctly, don’t guarantee 100 per cent protection against Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) or unplanned pregnancy. Sex using a condom may still spread infection if the condom does not fully cover the infected area. For example, some infections such as pubic lice, scabies, genital warts, and herpes are spread by close skin-to-skin contact. Condoms provide some protection against these STIs, but not full protection as they do not cover the entire genital skin area. A condom may break, particularly if it has not been stored properly or the right lubricant has not been used. Also, when exposed to prolonged heat, condoms break. So for those allergic to a condom component, theirs becomes a situation of double jeopardy. In 1994, the first polyurethane condoms were produced, designed for people with latex allergies, but they are yet to become as common as latex condoms. In addition, while there are several other options to turn to like female condoms which resemble a regular condom, and is made of polyurethane, which is suitable for people allergic to latex and is designed to fit inside the vagina, it does not protect against STIs like the male condom. In a recent, private blog post, a woman with latex allergy shared her thoughts. “Condoms are important for sexual health. As a woman with a latex allergy I have been in the very real position of having to choose between abstinence (which is not an option for me), using a condom that is going to cause me pain, contact dermatitis, a sore throat, and if I keep doing it anaphylaxis; or no condom because I can’t find a no-latex condom in a shop. God forbid I need a large sized condom, which is like looking for the Holy Grail. Yeah, they make them, but they also make female condoms and have you ever seen them on a shelf ? No. Added to my frustration is the fact that no latex condoms are more likely to break, slip off and fail than their latex counterparts according to the WHO Reproductive Health Library. “I am a single woman, and the biggest hurdle to my sex life is condom. First, when you tell men that you have a latex allergy, they smile like Christmas has come early. In their minds no latex= no condom. Apparently, men are not at all concerned about STDs or getting me pregnant. I shouldn’t have to compromise on efficacy and availability. There should be more options to protect against STDs. Condoms and abstinence are not enough.” When given the option of pain or pleasure, most people, asides masochists would readily choose pleasure; but when that pleasure comes at the price of a later pain, most people would rethink their options, even for something as pleasurable as sex.