UYO – Chief Ukana Peter Umana, the village head of Ikot Okoro, Oruk Anam local government area of Akwa Ibom State, has rolled out drums to celebrate the revamping of an hitherto dilapidated general hospital in the area. The 60-year old secondary healthcare facility had been under the state of dilapidation for over two decades, and had become a safe haven for reptiles and other dreaded animals, and a threat to patients. To access medical care, the communities within the LGA had to travel to distant places for medical care, and merely retained the mortuary within the facility for embalmment of corpses. But the recent turnaround campaign by the Akwa Ibom State government, not only turned around the physical infrastructure of the hospital, but has to a very great extent breathed life back into the community. Reacting to the development, the visibly elated village head, Chief Ukana Peter Umana, compared the intervention to overhauling the life wire of the benefiting communities. His words: “The community is excited because we thought that the life of that hospital had come to an end. Before the rehabilitation, people used to travel to far distant areas like Mercy Hospital, Abak or Ekpene Obom Leprosy Hospital to receive treatment. But now, the story is different. The renovation of the hospital has also improved the economic life of the community. “This hospital, according to the history of this community, had its first batch of patients in 1958. So it’s a long standing hospital. Why I say this is that there is one of my relations who was delivered of her child in the hospital, as one of the first batch of pregnant women admitted there. And it was in 1958.” Concerned about the quality and worth of the installed new hospital equipment, Chief Umana advised the state government to ensure that the new equipment installed in the hospital would be secured by equally reviving the Ikot Okoro police station, situated near the hospital, so that even the staff would feel safe to live within the hospital and work even at the night. He however applauded the state government for the facelift accorded the area, especially by constructing the Abak-Ikot Okoro road. Justifying the state government’s expenditure on secondary healthcare facilities in the state, the state commissioner for health, Dr Dominic Ukpong, said Ikot Okoro general hospital, was only one of the hitherto grounded health facilities that the state government has decided to actively involved to ensure that the public health sector in the state is revived. Ukpong said the present administration has so far completed the rehabilitation of about ten general hospitals in the state. He listed the affected hospitals to include; general hospital Etinan, which the vice president, Prof Yemi Osinbajo came to commission in 2017; the general hospital Ibiaku Ntok Okpo in Ikono, Methodist Hospital, Ituk Mbang, in Uruan, Emmanuel Hospital Eket, Iquita General Hospital Oron and Comprehensive Health Centre, Awa Iman, in Onna local government area. His words “In Awa, we want to do phase two so that we can also train nurses there and house officers. In Ikono, there is a lot of ground. We want to train nurses there and also train house officers. So a lot of construction and more plans would come to those places. “The state has 42 general hospitals; and out of the 42, we have only interned in about 10; and even at that it is only the phase one. The next phase would take care of quite a number of the rest. For instance, at Ituk Mbang, there are blocks there we have not touched. We are coming back there to repair them”. The Commissioner declared that the comprehensive health centres and cottage hospitals were equally general hospitals but with different kinds of equipment. “Then you have the primary health centres, of which there are 426 of them in the state. They are not manned by doctors but by experienced nurses; they take care of certain kinds of services like HIV screening and testing, and a lot of maternity cases, especially when women want to deliver. Even though they are supposed to be manned by nurses, we still have NYSC doctors there because Youth Corp members are supposed to work in the villages. “The maintenance of the primary health center was initially the responsibility of the local government health service commission. The person who was in charge was Dr. Val Attah, not a medical doctor, a former permanent secretary who was handling that. Now that the service was not doing well; salaries were owed by the local government, nurses were not cared for and insecurity was the order of the day. Some miscreants attacked some of the nurses in those health centers while patients were robbed. Because of that, people could not work at night, so they ran away. “People could not go there. That is why you had many women going to traditional birth attendants or prayer houses to give birth. Now to salvage the situation, the state government had to intervene to give money to pay salaries. “That intervention cannot be sustainable. We have to do what the federal government advised us to do. That is why the state government had to enact a law which brought about the local government health commission invested with the primary health development agency. It is now the responsibility of the federal government it manages it through us. “We had to pick one primary health care centre in each of the 329 wards of the state that will be working with the funding agencies like the WHO, USAID and others who send huge amount to the federal government to spend on primary healthcare,” the commissioner explained. An area of concern as pointed out by the health commissioner was however that with the new equipment installed in the rehabilitated hospitals, the state is in dire need of trained personnel from nurses to doctors, especially as the nursing council had withdrawn accreditation for all nurses trained in the state for about four years. “I want you to think back. We had not produced nurses for four years whereas within the four years, some of the nurses had reached the age of retirement and were retiring. So we have inadequate staff. I’m using nurses; I’m not even talking about doctors. “But what we saw on ground on the nominal role of nurses was huge but we didn’t have them in the hospitals. Then the state government set up investigative panel where which I was the chairman to find out why we had so many thousands of nurses and doctors and yet there was none in the hospital. “When we investigated we realised that a majority of them were ghost workers; and even those who were working, one person was receiving the salary of five people. Some people died and it was not reported and they would go and collected the dead people salary and add to their own. “We decided to make use of BVN and we got about four of them and the rest ran away only to be shouting that they were being owed salaries. But when we ask them to come and collect your salaries, they wouldn’t come. The process made the wage bill shrank, and we were able to pay salaries without owing. “So we are now trying to recruit qualified nurses. We have been able to make the nursing council to restore our accreditation. So we are training nurses now but not at the speed we want. We are taking people gradually,” he said.