Abuja – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday declared that in the face of Nigeria law, Justice Mohammed Tanko acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) cannot function as the head of the judiciary. The party therefore asked him to quit the office; pointing out that the 1999 Constitution (as amended) has no provision for two Chief Justices of Nigeria at any particular time. It described as illegal the swearing in of members of the election petitions tribunal by Justice Tanko, adding that his action was a complete nullity. PDP, which said that Justice Walter Onnoghen is still in charge as the Chief Justice of Nigeria, wants Justice Tanko to note that he is allowing himself to be used by despotic forces in their bid to truncate the nation’s hard-earned democracy. The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “It is also imperative for Justice Tanko to agree that, having allowed himself to be used to desecrate the hallowed temple of justice, his oath of office and oath of allegiance, the only option left for him is to quit the bench. “The PDP reminds Justice Tanko of his membership of the panel set up by the National Judicial Council (NJC), which on March 14, 2018, forced Justice Obisike Orji to quit the bench and go on a compulsory retirement, for allowing himself to be sworn in as the Acting Chief Judge of Abia State without the statutory recommendation of the NJC. “From Justice Tanko’s first illegal assignment, which is the swearing-in of election tribunal Justices for the forthcoming elections, Nigerians can now see the raison d’etre for his illegal appointment. This action is in itself a nullity and we caution the said justices to be reminded of the popular maxim that something cannot be built on nothing.” Meanwhile, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) yesterday commended Justices of the Supreme Court for boycotting Mohammed’s inauguration of election tribunals. “By their action, they have shown the world that they are heroes of democracy. “We advise the Nigeria Bar Association to take a cue from that and begin to boycott court sessions until the right thing is done on this matter,” CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo ugochinyere said. The coalition supported the position taken by the United States, United Kingdom and the European Union on President Muhammadu Buhari’s illegal suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. “We ask them to take further hard stand against Buhari and officials of his government until they reverse the illegal decision,” it said. The CUPP asked that the hard stand should include travel bans on key officials of this government, including, Justice Tanko Muhammed.