West Ham manager Manuel Pellegrini said Marko Arnautovic’s future at the club remains unsolved amid continued interest in the striker from China. Arnautovic was keen on a potentially lucrative move to the Chinese Super League, but his suitors failed to meet West Ham’s valuation. The 29-year-old appeared to wave goodbye to West Ham fans when he was substituted during their victory over Arsenal in January and was left out of the squad the following week at Bournemouth, but could return for their fourth-round FA Cup tie at AFC Wimbledon on Saturday night. Marko Arnautovic appeared to wave farewell to the West Ham fans when he was substituted in their win over Arsenal
Marko Arnautovic appeared to wave farewell to the West Ham fans when he was substituted in their win over Arsenal
“Tomorrow (Friday) we’ll see the name of players that are in the squad list,” Pellegrini said on Thursday. “He’s working with us without any problem.” “I don’t know what will happen. It’s impossible for me to know the future. “You as a manager are always worried of any different issues that you have with your squad. Of course if you don’t have any, it’s better, but these things happen in football and we know that we must try to solve it as soon as we can.” Marko Arnautovic was reportedly keen on a move to the Chinese Super League
Marko Arnautovic was reportedly keen on a move to the Chinese Super League
Pellegrini has dealt with several injuries to his forwards – including Arnautovic – during the first half of the season, but now has Andy Carroll back in contention. Carroll, whose contract expires in the summer, has also been linked with a move away from the London Stadium during the transfer window, with reports claiming Tottenham were interested in the 30-year-old. However, Pellegrini confirmed Sky Sports News’ understanding that the former England striker is unlikely to move across London. Andy Carroll looks set to stay at West Ham until at least the end of the season
Andy Carroll looks set to stay at West Ham until at least the end of the season
“They are rumours. There are a lot of different rumours for different ways,” Pellegrini said. “I don’t think that Andy Carroll will leave the club… because he has a contract here.” “I think that Andy’s improving in every game that he plays. He had a very long injury but he’s working now the complete week with the squad.”