Tony Ezimakor, Samuel Ogidan and Paschal Njoku Abuja – The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), rising from its emergency NEC meeting on Monday, has decided to embark on a two-day warning boycott of courts all over the country following the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, by President Muhammadu Buhari. The warning boycott of courts nationwide will begin today. The NBA had on Saturday demanded the reversal of the suspension of Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen. It also called on the National Assembly to assert its constitutional authority and powers and prevent this slide into chaos and erosion of the rule of law. Reacting on the appointment of Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad as the acting CJN on Friday, NBA President Paul Usoro (SAN) said the association “rejects” Onnoghen’s suspension. “The Nigerian Bar Association unequivocally rejects and condemns this attempted coup against the Nigerian judiciary and evident suspension of the Nigerian constitution by the executive arm of the Federal Government. “The action of the executive portends a slide into anarchy and complete deconstruction of the rule of law and due process. “It amounts to an absolute breach of the constitution and the usurpation of the powers of the Senate and the National Judicial Council.” Senate Cancels Resumption, Heads To Supreme Court In a similar development, the upper chamber of the National Assembly on Monday suspended its plan to reconvene plenary tomorrow. Recall that the Senate had at the weekend announced that it will resume tomorrow and it was also gathered that the planned resumption was to look into the crisis surrounding the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen. However, the Senate suspended the resumption. The development is not unconnected with the decision of the National Assembly leadership to approach the Supreme Court for interpretation of the 1999 constitution (as amended) over the suspension of the CJN. In a statement on Monday by the Clerk of the National Assembly, Nelson Ayewoh, he revealed that the legislative body would resume on February 19, the earlier fixed date for resumption. The two-paragraph statement entitled, ‘Cancellation of Senate Resumption in Plenary’, reads: “This is to inform all distinguished senators of the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that the resumption in plenary scheduled for tomorrow, Tuesday, January 29, 2019 has been cancelled. “The scheduled date of resumption in plenary earlier fixed for Tuesday, February 19, 2019, remains, please.” Explaining why the Senate cancelled its planned resumption, the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, said that the Senate decided to approach the Supreme Court to know if President Muhammadu Buhari acted within the provision of the constitution in his suspension of Onnoghen. He further said that the Senate wants to know if the action of the president does amount to usurpation of the powers of the Senate as provided for in section 292 of the constitution. Saraki said, “Earlier today, the Senate filed a case in the highest court of the land, the Supreme Court, seeking its interpretation on whether President Muhammadu Buhari acted within the provision of the constitution in his suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Hon. Justice Walter Nkannu Onnoghen, or whether the action of the president does amount to usurpation of the powers of the Senate as provided for in section 292 of the constitution. “Following the filing of the case, the matter of the suspension of the CJN which is the main issue for which the Senate had planned to reconvene tomorrow, has become sub judiced. “Therefore, in line with the standing rules of the Senate not to debate issues that are already pending before the court, the reconvening of the Senate tomorrow (today) has been put off. The previous adjournment of the Senate till February 19, 2019 stays.” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress’ senators were already heading for a showdown when the Senate announced that it was resuming today to discuss the suspension of Onnoghen. CCT Adjourns Onnoghen’s Trial Sine Die Meanwhile, the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) in Abuja has indefinitely adjourned proceedings in the ongoing trial of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. Justice Danladi Umar, chairman of the tribunal, adjourned hearing after listening to parties on Monday. At Monday’s sitting, the prosecution counsel, Musa Ibrahim, had informed the CCT of the position of the appellate court on the pending matter. Onnoghen’s counsel, Kanu Agabi, confirmed the development and consequently sought an indefinite adjournment of proceedings. Ibrahim did not object. In view of the position of the defence and prosecution counsel, the chairman of CCT had to adjourn indefinitely. In a ruling, the CCT chairman said he adjourned indefinitely because of his respect for the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal had on January 24 ordered the Federal Government, the CCT, and counsel to Onnoghen to maintain status quo pending the determination of an appeal filed by the CJN. The embattled Justice Onnoghen had appealed the ruling delivered by the CCT chairman on January 14, that motions filed by Onnoghen and the prosecution counsel be taken together on the same day. But on January 24, when the matter came up at the appellate court, a three-man panel of the appellate court, after hearing the appeal, fixed January 30 for ruling and ordered that parties stay action. Meanwhile, a member of the three-man Code of Conduct Tribunal sitting in Abuja, Justice William Atedze, was conspicuously absent when the panel reconvened on Monday to continue hearing on the case of the embattled Chief Justice. As the panel began sitting, only the CCT chairman, Justice Danladi Umar, and Justice Julie Anabo, were present. The panel did not advance reasons as to why the panel member was absent at Monday’s sitting. However, a source told Daily Independent that Justice Atedze is a man of principle and honour. The source further said Atedze’s absence was not unconnected with the unfolding drama in respect of the issue of Justice Onnoghen. Justice Atedze had given a dissenting ruling on January 22 when he ordered that Onnoghen’s trial be adjourned sine die since the matter was on appeal at the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division. Also, Atedze ordered that the matter be adjourned sine die pending the determination of various suits filed in respect of the CJN’s issue. He had agreed with Wole Olanipekun, lead counsel to Onnoghen, that going by section 287 of the 1999 constitution, an order of a court was subsisting until set aside by due process of the law. He insisted that the CCT could not operate in isolation, stressing that the court orders which directed that status quo be maintained pending the determination of the suits at the Federal High Court, FCT High Court, and National Industrial Court were subsisting until set aside. Atedze had contended that the orders and decisions of the courts were all binding on the CCT until set aside, and in order to avoid judicial anarchy. He restated that the issue of jurisdiction was in contention and that no one could build something on nothing. Atedze, in his dissenting ruling, had insisted that steps be taken to resolve the issue of whether or not the CCT had jurisdiction to hear the matter. He said the appeal filed by the CJN against the order of the CCT on January 14 should go on as slated on January 24. More so, it was reliably gathered that Atedze did not take part in the hearing of January 23 motion ex parte which the CCT granted and ordered that Justice Onnoghen be suspended to pave way for his trial. FG Sends Criminal Allegations Against Onnoghen To NJC Ahead of the emergency meeting of the National Judicial Council (NJC) on Tuesday, the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) sent a list of criminal allegations against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria. Sources said damaging allegations against Onnoghen included bank statements and title deeds of properties running into billions of naira. Onnoghen: Buhari’s Action Is Executive Lawlessness — Atiku Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), took President Muhammadu Buhari to task on Monday over the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen. Addressing newsmen on the state of the nation, Atiku said the latest action by President Buhari fell squarely within a recent pattern of executive lawlessness committed by the government. Atiku, who further described the action as a frontal assault on the nation’s democracy, added that the action was alien to democratic rule and more in line with military dictatorship. “Yet again, our dear country is passing through a difficult moment. How we react to this challenge in the following days will determine the fate of our democracy, which has been brought to great peril by this needless crisis engineered by a government that is unwilling to subject its conducts to the requirements of our constitution,” he said. Commending all Nigerians and friends of Nigeria who have expressed outrage over the unlawful removal of Onnoghen, Atiku said Buhari’s action constituted a flagrant breach of the nation’s constitution and a frontal assault on democracy. “I want to note the universal condemnation of this unlawful act by all Nigerians as well as the international community. “I need to state that this latest action by General Muhammadu Buhari falls squarely within the pattern of executive lawlessness that has now been firmly turned into statecraft by the APC government. “The serial disregard of court orders and consequent violation of constitutionally guaranteed human rights of our citizens confirms beyond all doubt that General Buhari and his government would rather obey their own whims and operate by separate rules outside the well-established constitutional order and the rule of law. It scarcely requires emphasis that this behaviour is alien to democratic rule and more in line with that of a military dictator,” he said. While insisting that the fight against corruption was crucial to good governance, the former vice president said the issue at stake was not about Onnoghen but whether the case followed due process. “Without doubt, the fight against corruption is crucial to good governance and the progress of our country. “In this context, the issue of corruption as it relates to the institution of the judiciary is even more crucial.” Onnoghen’s Suspension Not Because Of Election — FG Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, has lambasted those criticising the suspension of Justice Walter Onnoghen, saying the action by President Muhammadu Buhari was right and followed due process. He said contrary to what the opposition parties and their ilk wanted the world to believe, the suspended CJN was given the opportunity to clear his name of any wrongdoing but that instead he opted for frivolous applications in various courts, and evading service by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) The minister also claimed that the CCT was right in making the order that precipitated the suspension, pointing out that Justice Onnoghen himself had severally, as Justice of the Supreme Court, adjudicated on the issue of the jurisdiction of the CCT to try and sanction public officers. Addressing journalists in Abuja, on Monday, the minister said the cacophony of voices that trailed the action of President Buhari was uncalled for, and that the alleged political motives and return to tyranny read into the action were a figment of the imagination of those making the claim. According to him, President Buhari was an “avowed democrat and the actions of the administration follow the rule of law”. He said instead of the nation’s number one law officer taking responsibility for the breach of code of public officers, he chose to put the judiciary on trial. “The whole thing is about the country’s highest judicial officer, the Chief Justice of Nigeria, being accused of a breach of the Code of Conduct for Public Officers, and the legal and moral conundrum surrounding that. “It is about the suspicious transactions running into millions of dollars to the suspended CJN’s personal accounts, all undeclared or improperly declared as required by law. “It is about the Hon. Justice Onnoghen himself admitting to the charges that he indeed failed to follow the spirit and letter of the law in declaring his assets, calling it a ‘mistake’. “And it is about him refusing to take responsibility, instead opting to put the entire judiciary on trial.” The minister also came down hard on the media for failing, according to him, to see the big picture.