Umuahia – Rev. Fr. Nathaniel Ibeke,the Parish Priest of  Saint Mary’s Catholic Church, Abayi-Ariaria, Aba, Abia State, has called on youths to eschew all kinds of exuberance and get focused in making positive impacts that posterity would speak of forever. The cleric made the call in his parish during the 79th birthday ceremony of the founder of Block Rosary Crusade, Oblate Eusebius Dominic Oguizu, which was organised by the youths of our Lady of Lourdes Catholic Church, Aba, where the Block Rosary Crusade was founded. Oguizu was said to be merely 17 years old in 1956 when he established Block Rosary Crusade, which is today the base, foundation and the spiritual taproot of the Catholic Church where adherence come to pray together every evening seeking the face of God. Using Oguizu as a mark for positive reference to the younger ones, Father Nathaniel said: “Whatever we are starts from the nursing stage. I know it wasn’t that easy for him. In the spreading of the gospel there are challenges, but he was focused, determined and humble. “Because of the fact that he was focused and determined and humble, his efforts through Christ yielded the very fruit called Block Rosary Crusade that we are enjoying today.  A sense of humility and dedication are virtues that are very important in the spread of the gospel and I believe those two virtues nurtured him into what we are celebrating today. “As young as he was then, he was focused and this is as a result of moral values impacted in him. This is where our elders have role to play in the life of a child. I challenge the youths of today to cling onto God and allow Him to use them and the sky will be their limit.” Speaking to our reporter, Oguizu said he was overwhelmed to have been alive to see youths of today celebrating him and urged them to remain focused in preaching peace to all men and all nation which is what Block Rosary Crusade is all about. “By the grace of God, the Block Rosary Crusade was founded in August 1956 here in Aba. I was gathering children like me then and we were praying in the evening and with the help of the Holy Spirit, it has grown beyond what I imagined. “That’s a proof that this is God’s project and not mine. So, I give God the glory. What we teach and pray for at Block Rosary is peace and love which is the real gospel. What Christ came to preach is peace and love and that’s what we want. I’m just a tool used by the Holy Spirit. Anybody could have been used to do it.”