ABEOKUTA – As eligible voters in Ogun State prepare to elect a successor for the incumbent governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who is rounding up his second term in office, the battle for the governorship seat will be tough as political gladiators from all the three senatorial zones in the state will be locking horns in the contest that will determine who wins the race after the March 2 governorship election. Without prejudice to other contenders in other political parties, it is safe to say that there are some major contenders in the race. They include Dapo Abiodun, on the APC platform; a House of Representatives member, Adekunle Abdulkabir Akinlade of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) and Gboyega Nasir Isiaka of the African Democratic Congress (ADC); Buruji Kashamu, who till now has the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ticket and more of an underdog in the race, is a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole of the Action Democratic Party (ADP). Though the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) appears to have upper hand, due to what some people termed “federal power”, but the sharp division in the party might be its undoing, and there may be a repeat of what happened to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2011 election in the state when the acrimony in the PDP then-Otunba Gbenga Daniel and that of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, which divided the party into factions, led to the formation of Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN), which culminated in the mass exodus of PDP members to PPN, and yielded Gboyega Nasir Isiaka (GNI) as governorship candidate. Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka (aka GNI) Gboyega Nasir Isiaka is from Imeko in Imeko Afon local government area of the state. He is a two-time gubernatorial candidate, both on Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) in 2011 and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2015. GNI, as he is fondly called, is a 1986 first class graduate in Accounting from University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University). The 55-year-old politician served in the administration of Otunba Gbenga Daniel, the immediate past governor of the state, between 2003 and 2011, and was Group Managing Director (GMD), Gateway Holdings Plc, an investment portfolio of Ogun State. A seasoned stock broker and a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountant, Isiaka has a stronghold in Yewa/Aworiland and he is taking another shot at the governorship seat on the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) during the forthcoming general elections. GNI, a household name in Ogun politics is arguably one of the most popular candidates. But with his mentor, Gbenga Daniel not totally on his side, especially politically, observers fear that GNI may have difficulty in attaining the exalted seat. Otunba Olatunde Rotimi Paseda Otunba Olatunde Rotimi Paseda was the Ogun State governorship candidate of the Unity Party of Nigeria in 2015. He hails from Ijebu Omu, in Odogbolu Local Government Area of Ogun State. The 52-year-old politician needs little introduction because his entry into the political space of the Gateway State has been quite seismic, sending jitters down the spines of the opposing forces. Those who know him say he is an inborn leader with characteristics that only leaders with plus factor possess. His humble life is a tapestry of success and accomplishment in various fields of human endeavour. Paseda’s services are profound in various communities in the state, and these stand him out in the league of those who are aspiring to lead Ogun State in 2019. There is no denying the fact that Ogun State is blessed with many great minds, and Paseda ranks quite high among them. Regarded as one of the very few with leadership qualities similar to those of Pa Obafemi Awolowo, ORP, as he is fondly called, is at home with his people. Prince Dapo Abiodun Prince Dapo Abiodun is an indigene of Ikenne in Ikenne local government area of the state. He is considered by aggrieved APC members as an imposition or a candidate, who emerged surreptitiously through the conspiracy of some powerful forces within the party against a rather popular choice. So, now, he has been foisted on the party whereas, to some, he does not have the clout to create any upset whatsoever, even in his Ogun East senatorial district. Talking about strong political figures in that area, anyone conversant with the Ogun East political terrain would first mention Buruji Kashamu, the Adebutu Keshinton family and of course, the Daniel factor. Of these power blocks, Abiodun is APC’s weakest links. Even if the ticket was withdrawn from Kashamu as some PDP members are currently rooting, contending with Mr. Ladi Adebutu, scion of the Adebutus in the East is still a tall order for Abiodun, given the investment of the Adebutus in that part of the state. However, Abiodun has some very strong forces behind him like former governor Olusegun Osoba, former Lagos State governor and National Leader of the APC, Senator Bola Tinubu; Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshimhole and a billionaire businessman from the north, believed to be funding him. Regrettably, of all these people, only two are from the state, and of these two, only Osoba has a solid political base and clearly, what is on the ground is not a job for one man. The point also to be made is that when during the last election, Osoba defected to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) he could not make as much impact. Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade is the governorship candidate of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) and the anointed candidate of the outgoing governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. The governor is not hiding his preference for him. To his advantage is the fact that he is from Ogun West, the part of the state currently clamouring for governorship. He is a sitting House of Representatives member and so, he is likely to get widespread support among his people, who are considering him as being persecuted without justification. And with the backing of Governor Amosun, Ogun Central is equally sure and on lockdown for him. In other words, the battleground for him will be the East. So, expectedly, he would simply join other candidates to slug it out in the east. The calculation in his camp is that he would hold his West for himself while Governor Amosun will hold Central for him, so whatever he gets in the East, perhaps through alliances with the like of Adebutu, would only come as an addition for him. So, in theoretical calculations, Akinlade stands a pretty good chance to clinch victory in the Ogun 2019 poll. Nothing however lends credence to than his kick-off rally last in December with an unprecedented crowd that shook the whole town. He is currently the man to beat and certainly the issue in the election. Senator Buruji Kashamu Senator Buruji Kashamu is contesting the governorship seat on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). He is an institution on his own in Ogun State political firmament. He has grown to become a menacing political force that must be factored into considerations, when discussing Ogun State politics. Kashamu is contesting the ticket with Hon. Ladi Adebutu on the platform of the same party. Kashamu in relying on series of court judgements which recognize his faction till 2020 as the authentic PDP in Ogun State, but the faction does not enjoy the support of the national leadership of the party. The two factions are still in court ‘dragging’ the party ticket among themselves. Rt. Hon. Dimeji Bankole Bankole is the gubernatorial candidate of Action Democratic Party (ADP) which was registered by his father for him to actualize his governorship dream. He is not one to affect Amosun’s chances and influence in the Central. There is no controversy about the fact that he is a good candidate – young, impressive and intellectually sound. He is the kind of leader the people would want but one of his setbacks is that since his speakership, he has not actually come up strong on the political turf again. Beyond that, like GNI, he is not likely to have the war chest needed to prosecute his ambition.