Abuja – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described as laughable, President Muhammadu Buhari’s heinous plot to frame its Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar, saying Atiku has nothing to do with the collapsed of Bank PHB. Recall that the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed had while briefing State House correspondents on Friday, said that in 2009, Atiku took N156 million from Bank PHB, which led to the collapse of the bank. Addressing newsmen, while reacting to Federal government allegation that Atiku contributed to the collapse of the bank, the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) Director of Media and Publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan dared the President to arrest Atiku. The PDP spokesman noted that the threat from the Federal government is as a result of fear of the popularity of Atiku, adding that “while we understand that President Buhari and his dysfunctional , All Progressives Congress (APC) are jittery over Atiku Abubakar’s soaring popularity ahead of the elections, it is reprehensible that Mr. President will descend abysmally low to fabricate outright lies and falsehood in a bid to discredit a more qualified and acceptable Presidential candidate. “The PPCO makes bold to state that Atiku Abubakar has nothing to do with the alleged issues leading to the collapse of Bank PHB, but an honest and hardworking Nigerian who has no skeleton of any sort in his cupboard, unlike President Buhari, who is now entangled in series of corruption allegations. “For emphasis, even the Chairman of President Buhari’s Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof. Itse Sagay, had since told the world that the Buhari Presidency has searched everywhere and could not find anything incriminating on Atiku Abubakar.” Ologbondiyan further noted that the successful outing of Atiku in United State had further increased the fear of President Buhari, adding, “the world already knows that this attempt to mudsling our Presidential candidate is coming out of President Buhari’s frustration over Atiku Abubakar’s successful outing in the United States, for which the Buhari Presidency has gone into full hallucination. “This is in addition to their frenzied face-saving effort to divert public attention from President Buhari’s humiliating appearances in the respective rallies and television shows he has had.” The party spokesman advised President Buhari and the APC to note that Nigerians can see through their lies, fabrications and frustration and that their scheme against Abubakar is already dead on arrival. “If anything, the PPCO will want President Buhari to open the books and provide explanation for the N9 trillion stolen under his watch as Minister of Petroleum Resources as detailed in the leaked NNPC memo. “President Buhari should as well, allow an open inquest into the alleged involvement of his relations in the N1.032 trillion alleged corrupt acquisitions in 9Mobile and Keystone Bank PLC,” he said.