Disney Studios’ decision to drop Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow has saved the company £73million for his wages. Depp was on a rising wage deal for his iconic role thanks to his five outings, which have amassed box office of more than £3billion. He earned just under £62million for 2017’s Pirates Of The Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales – it was a tenth of the film’s revenue of £630million. Currently Deadpool writers Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick are working on a script for a new trilogy to introduce a fresh gang of pirates. Depp was set They have been told that Depp, 55, who earned about £170million from the franchise, has made his final journey as the lead. A movie source said: “Disney’s move to walk away from Johnny in the future films will save them a packet – pretty much half of their entire production budget. It is a business move to walk away from Johnny as much as a creative one. “He was the biggest earner in Hollywood purely for a film salary. Robert Downey Jr gets more for his Marvel films but only due to back end profit shares. Now the studio has lifted that burden of that huge money deal.” In October original Pirates creator and franchise script writer Stuart Beattie was the first to publicly reveal that Disney Studios is ditching the star and reworking the entire premise. Beattie admitted that Depp’s work as Sparrow will be “his Hollywood legacy”. Johnny Depp is arguably one of the greatest actors around today. From the numerous Tim Burton films to Disney pirates, to singing and slaying, Depp has basically done it all. So, who and what has he been? Depp was miscast as Depression-era outlaw John Dillinger, the charismatic bank robber whose lightning raids made him the number-one target of J. Edgar Hoover’s fledgling FBI, in Public Enemies
Not quite Scissorhands: the Demon Barber of Fleet Street, Sweeney Todd in 2007
Tim Burton’s Sleepy Hollow (1999) indulged Depp’s glib stare, and the gothic mannerisms that he would go on to cultivate
Behind boy monster make-up in Edward Scissorhands: his first of nine (so far) collaborations with Tim Burton
As Jack Sparrow in The Pirates of the Caribbean in 2005. It is estimated that Depp will earn $95million in Pirates of the Caribbean 5 – that’s around $20.75 per second
Depp, who has been dogged by personal dramas over the past four years, saw his last outing as Sparrow in Dead Men Tell No Tales become the lowest-performing film of the series. Beattie nodded and confirmed on camera the reboot means Depp is out of the frame: “I think he’s had a great run. He’s made that role his own and it’s become the character he’s most famous for.” Beattie feels no matter what Depp does next, his career high point will be defined by Sparrow. The actor, known for cult hits such as 1990’s Edward Scissorhands, was not expected to become a star with the release of 2003’s The Curse Of The Black Pearl Australian Beattie admitted: “We were making a big movie and we were putting this quirky, independent actor in the middle of it and people thought we were crazy. But when it all came together, something clicked and it was magic and connected with audiences.”