The 2019 general elections are by the corner. The Presidential and federal legislative elections have been fixed for February 16, while the Governorship and state Housees of Assembly elections are slated for March 2. The Independent Electoral Commission (INEC), the agency which conducts election in Nigeria, also made provisions for run-offs in case of ties or inconclusiveness. However, despite assurances by Professor Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC Chairman, Nigerians have been wondering if  the electoral umpire, is prepared for this herculean task of conducting a national election of this magnitude, this being the first under his watch. The 2015 general elections, it would be recalled, was conducted by Professor Attahiru Jega. The 2015 elections were acclaimed to be near-seamless by local and international observers and were less controversial. But, amidst worries by a cross section of Nigerians, it is pertinent to wonder if the Yakubu-led INEC is really prepared for the coming elections. Let Nigerians Take Yakubu By His Words – Commentator Gabriel Edokpa Agboyi, a Benin-based public commentator on national affairs, said: “The lNEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, has told Nigerians that his commission is fully prepared for the general elections. Since he has not complained of anything such as unavailability of funds or inadequate election materials, we should have every reason to believe him that everything is in order. “The INEC Chairman has also assured Nigerians that the commission has put everything in place to prevent any form of rigging, especially vote buying, which was the problem in recent elections. “The problems associated with elections in Nigeria have always been with the politicians who want to win always and at all costs. “If the politicians and their supporters maintain decorum and play the game according to laid down rules, they will make the job very easy for INEC. “But, in most cases, the politicians will want to influence INEC officials to aid them to win elections by manipulating figures in their favour and this has caused most of the election crisis in this country. “I want to call on INEC to be matured this time around so that Nigerians could witness peaceful elections for once in this country.” INEC Should Beware Of Interferences From APC, FG – Analyst Abdullahi Zurmi, A Minna-based political analyst, stated: “Many stakeholders have consistently insisted that INEC is truly prepared to conduct the 2019 elections, although, we must not ignore the assurances of Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, chairman of the electoral body, that he is ready for the general elections. “Be that as it may, the interferences from the Federal Government, including principal officers of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the affairs of INEC has made many express their concerns over the ability of the commission to organise free, fair and credible elections. “Yes, INEC is prepared, but in what manner? Evidences abound of plots to tamper with the processes of conducting a free and transparent exercise due to several factors. One must not forget in a hurry the Amina Zakari’s case which has tactically been swept under the carpet by the INEC and the Presidency. “So, if you ask me again, I will say, yes, INEC is well prepared for the forthcoming general elections. But, in what manner? Will it be free, fair and credible elections, or, a massively rigged process. “Therefore, if I should say my piece, Nigerians should be on the alert and ensure that the forthcoming general elections do not end up in the way evil doers think. “The APC must understand that, the elections which ushered it into government, was adjudged as the freest, fairest and most credible election ever in the history of Nigeria. “INEC and its Chairman, Prof. Yakubu, have a moral duty to Nigerians to conduct a credible electoral exercise devoid of manipulations of the entire process.” Nigerians Should be Optimistic, But,… – Farmer Ahmed Ibrahim, Minna-based farmer, added: “My perception on INEC’s level of preparedness for the forthcoming general elections is that of optimism, just as the Chairman of the commission has severally told Nigerians and the international community that he would conduct a free, fair and credible election. “Though the chairman has not told us whether or not he has gotten all that is required to make his dreams come true by way of funds being made available, having his staff credible enough not to compromise by remaining apolitical against what we all witnessed in Ekiti and Osun states. “Are Nigerian security forces ready and willing to be trusted partners to INEC in meeting the challenges ahead, or to continue to serve the interest of President Muhammadu Buhari and his APC government? “Has all the variables such as who and who has been approved to monitor what locations, the composition of monitor groups? Who monitors the monitoring security men to ensure they are doing the biddings of Nigerians and not that of President Buhari and the APC? “Has there been truce among political gladiators to caution their supporters against violent acts because there will not be sacred cows and what are the assurances that those found wanting will be penalised? “What happens whereby Card Readers refuse to work? Are there trusted quick responses/interventions being put in place to attend to such emergencies where it exists? “The INEC chairman has given us his words. If he is able to take care of the issues I have just raised and many more, I think we should give it to him that with all the assurances, Nigeria will not regret having him as his predecessor, Professor Jega did.” Nigerians Should Take INEC serious – NIP Chair Chief Nwawueze Johnson Uwadi, Chairman, National Interest Party (NIP), Owerri North, Imo State, sated: “The election is around the corner and INEC has repeatedly assured us that it is prepared to give us a decent, credible election. “I would want to take them seriously. But, if they prove to be funny at the end of the day, that will be too bad. “They have released the time table for the polls as well as the total number of presidential and governorship candidates and have taken care of the PVCs. With what is on the ground, I want to believe that they are prepared.” Everyone Must Cooperate With INEC For Success – NDCP Scribe Emejuru Daniel Iwedajuru Obi, Secretary, Nigeria Democratic Congress Party (NDCP), added: “INEC is made up of people like you and me. Mahmood Yakubu and his team are not people from the moon. “They are not extra-ordinary human beings and so are not infallible. Let us give them the benefit of doubt that they will perform. It is only the politicians that will sabotage the system because, as you know, Nigerians are smart and usually have a way to frustrate a project. To me, INEC will perform. But this depends on the co-operation of all of us.” Blame Politicians If INEC Fails – Lawyer Bukola Onifade, Osogbo-based lawyer, said: “There is nothing wrong with the level of preparation of INEC for the February Presidential and National Assembly elections as well as state governorship elections and House of Assembly elections. But, there is something wrong with our political leaders.” Onifade described as false and political all the allegations of ill preparedness by INEC for the elections. He said from past experiences, it is not the INEC that normally riga election, but the politicians who want to win election at all costs. “Normally, INEC would need to prepare for any election. But, it is the politicians that would be looking for loopholes to beat their opponents and win elections, “ he stressed. According to him, “this is not the first time that INEC is conducting elections in the country. It has been doing it and will continue to do it. The processes are same. Once all the processes have been met, what else will INEC do? “It is the politicians that do not want to play the game according to the rules and would want to rig, even if they are not popular. It is the politicians that would come to compromise INEC officials, to induce them with money to rig elections.”