Chief Emeka Vincent is the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) candidate for Awka-South 1. In this interview, he speaks on why he wants to represent his people in the Anambra House of Assembly and other issues. Excerpts: Why did you join APGA and what was your experience in the party? I joined the All Progressive Grand Alliance ( APGA ) because I saw something remarkable in His Excellency Willie Mmaduabrochukwu Obiano . I liked his style of governance and after his talk on think-home agenda , I decided to come back to Anambra state to see if I can contribute my own quota to the development and welfare of our people . I worked for him during his re-election on Nov.18th , 2017 . I also worked for Victor Umeh on 13th January , 2018 .I invested my money and time to make sure they were delivered in my ward and constituency respectively . Their motto is ‘Be Your Brother’s Keeper’ and I believed that our leader His Excellency Willie Obiano was a very principled person because he told us that the primary elections would be free and fair ; that there is no sacred cow and anointed son . That everybody should go to the field if you desire to contest for any position under the party . He said it on so many occasions and a lot of people like me believed that that was the true position but alas , that was where the extortion started . Aspirants were extorted massively. Both from people in government and people in the party . People were massively extorted for tickets. So why did you find solace in PDP when there are other alternatives to explore ? Credibility ! If you look at the primaries , you find out that PDP is the only major political party not in court over conduct of primaries . APC , a lot of them are in court . APGA , 80% are in court but you can’t find PDP in court over the conduct of its primaries because every body accepted the outcome in good faith . Do you also think that Awka-South 1 state constituency has embraced PDP because Anambra is almost a one-party state ? I think so because APGA is a part of PDP . So most people in APGA have PDP running in their veins ! We all wanted to identify with our leader Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu by supporting the party he blessed and sanctified for the Igbo race . If not for the way the primary elections were conducted , APGA would have had two or three more states in the southeast . But the primaries were handled very immaturely and they made a mess of the whole process ! PDP has 80% stronghold in my constituency against APGA and because of the way the primaries were handled , a lot of people have decamped from APGA to PDP in my constituency . Why do you have this zeal to represent Awka-South 1 state constituency at the 7th Anambra Assembly ? Primarily for the welfare of my people . As a legislator , there is not much you can do . The major work is to make laws , sponsor bills and motions as well as oversight duties . But for my constituents and coming from the state capital Awka ; the development in this area has not been much . The Governor’s Operation Light-Up Anambra State is working even in my constituency . Three flyovers have been built in my local government area but it is not enough ! My primary job is to the grassroots . People in the villages are suffering . Infrastructure is very poor in the villages and cost of living is high . Although it is not the fault of the Governor but if elected , I intend to find out if there is any law in place that mandates government to invest a certain portion of revenue in the state capital and if there is none , I intend to sponsor one . Awka is the state capital and it is worth something like that.