LAGOS –  Rangers International Football Club of Enugu, founded in 1970, were a household name in the continent until the early part of the ‘80s. They were winning laurels with the Africa Cup of Winners to justify their popularity and supremacy in 1977 – beating IICC Shooting Stars of Ibadan in the final game at home. At home, the Enugu outfit, nicknamed “Flying Antelopes” was the team to beat until 1978 Challenge Cup final when Bendel Insurance FC of Benin demystified their invincibility in Lagos with a 3-0 spanking. In the early half of the ‘80s, the team continued their intimidating performance and won the FA Cup in 1981, beating archrival, Bendel Insurance of Benin 2-0 in a vengeance mission and in 1983 defeating DIC Bees of Kaduna 5-4 on penalties after a 0-0 draw at the regulation time with Christian Chukwu as the coach; Rangers went on the following year to win their sixth league title in 1984, still with Chukwu as the coach – by the following year, Rangers began to stutter. Also, Rangers sojourn in the ‘90 when Nigeria fully commenced professional league was sparingly as they made cup final in 1990, losing to Stationery Stores on 5-4 on penalty and that was their best until 2004 when they made the group stage CAF Confederation Cup and missed out on winning the group and making the final after losing a head-to-head tiebreaker to Asante Kotoko. The Enugu side, however, bounced back in 2016 winning the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) since 1984, after a 2015 season which nearly saw them relegated; Rangers were then back to continental actions – CAF Champions League – but they performed woefully at the qualifier stage, dropping to the lower Confederation Cup where they still could not prove themselves – there were accusations and counter accusations arising from funding and undue interferences. By 2017 again, Rangers struggled again, dropping into the relegation zone halfway through the season but recovered, finishing 14th and keeping alive their streak of “never being” relegated from the top flight. Rangers bounced back again and went on to win their first FA Cup in 35 years in 2018; Rangers stunned Kano Pillars, coming back from a 3-0 deficit to win the trophy on penalties. Ajani Ibrahim scored on a diving header two minutes into stoppage time to tie the game 3-3. Rangers played in the final five times from 1987 to 2007, never winning once. But the above history is necessary to give a background of how “mighty” the Flying Antelopes are locally and internationally and the need for them to replicate the past glories. Interestingly the 2018 Cup glory has brought the Coal City side back to the continental scene once again; a time that could be said to be for re-writing the past wrongs at the continental campaigns. In the first instance, the crisis that marred their last outings at the African competitions is not something that should repeat itself if the owners of the club (Enugu State Government) are genuinely interested in developing the game– funds that never came from anywhere; lack of motivation for the players; non-payment of salaries and allowances of players and officials; failed promises and general disaffections in the team among other. It is on record that coach, Agbo, who took Rangers on their last Confederations Cup Qualifiers once confessed on camera that the players did not eat before kick off in one of the away matches; a story that was not only pathetic for the players, but a shame of a nation as Nigeria touted to be the “giant of Africa.” The sack of Coach Imama Amapakabo, who guided them to the historic league title, was a problem on one part even as the backsliding of the Rangers as the defending NPFL champions started under his watch before the eventual sack. But, it is believed that this is a new dawn and that the owners of the club and management would have learnt their lessons and would be able to rise up to the occasion this time around. What is one talking about? With a new management team – made up of well-versed football technocrats, Davidson Owumi as chairman and Gbenga Ogunbote as coach – there is hope in the offing for another glory. The team have done the state and Nigeria proud at the qualifying stage to enter the money spinning group stage by decimating their opponents home and away. Against Defence Force of Ethiopia it was Rangers winning by 2-0 in Enugu and beating the Ethiopians 3-1 in their own backyard; goals aggregate 5-1. In the second qualifying game against Bantu of Lesotho, it was Rangers winning again by 2-1 and 2-1 home and away; goals aggregate 4-2 – a hundred per cent record. However, in the group stage Rangers have been drawn among tested African clubs; some have won laurels at their local and continental levels. They include Étoile du Sahel of Tunisia; Salitas of Burkina Faso and CS Sfaxien of Tunisia. The two Tunisian clubs are former African champions and are sure will pose very strong challenge to the Nigerian side even as nobody can also take the Burkinabes for granted – modern football does not recognise a minnow side; prepare well and the result will show your worth. Interestingly, Rangers coach, Ogunbote, in a recent interview with a Lagos-based television station – Channels TV Sports – said that the semi-finals stage was his target. “I was not given any target by the management, but I’m looking at getting to the semi-finals. I have done it with Sunshine Stars of Akure and I still can achieve in Rangers,” Ogunbote said. To achieve this, however, the former Enyimba boss did not hide his feeling adding that there was need to beef up the team which of course, will also largely depend on funds from the management. “We will need at least one or two players to support the squad; otherwise, we have players that are good enough to get the job done,” Ogunbote added. Invariably, the fans of Rangers must be carried along; they have been with team in the thick and thin of the club and are still very willing to remain patriotic to the team – this implies they must not be relegated to the background for it is their praises that will always bring out the heroes in the players. Time and tide waits for no one the saying goes; the club chairman, Owumi, is an ex-player of the club and has also managed the NPFL; he should be able to liaise with the appropriate authorities at the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and the League Management Company (LMC) to get the needed assistance for the team to excel for the pride of the nation beyond the state. Up Rangers!