SAM NWOKORO LAGOS – After one year in the saddle policing one of Nigeria’s commercial capital, Edgal Imohimi, Lagos Police Commissioner made indelible innovations that turned on the heart of new Inspector-General of Police, Adamu Mohammed who rescinded the posting out of Lagos police helmsman. In an institution where tenure survival is always subsumed in backroom politics among the country’s power elites, Lagos Police Commissioner, Edgal’s recent recall by the new Inspector-General has proved one thing:- that good works can be recognized even if you received no commendation. At least his efficient use of the community policing model in crime detection and fighting is one of his exclusive credits. And did that innovation pay off ?. Yes. It was effectively deployed in checkmating the reign of terror in Ikorodu by Yahoo-yahoo boys and ritualists that held that area to ransom for much of last year. But Edgal’s good reports do not stop with the Ikorodu raids on ritualists den. He really was on the beat and his men restored some sense of sublimity that once again, the Police can really be trusted and depended on to protect them. Lagos state may not be the largest city in the world. But it has all the attributes of one. Per square kilometer, it ranks in the top ten in the global population density. Nigeria is a developing economy, and Lagos is the barometer, the prism through which the size and volume of activities that go on it can be seen. Lagos hosts the largest number of blue chip and small enterprises more than the other states. With an estimated 20 million population, both residents and those in transit, stressed social infrastructure, urbanisation ,sanitation, and migration challenges, crime prevalence in Lagos requires not much elucidation. Thus policing the state is simply not a tea party, not with a population increasingly acculturated by modern smart ways and gung-ho lifestyles, nurtured to octane levels by the advent of democracy. Thus Lagos Police Command is the most tasked police command in the country.. No crime specie is lacking in the city: pilfering, burglary, armed robbery, smart scams forgeries, rape, kidnapping, cultism and all manner of criminal networking Equally salutary is the fact that the city’s police command is constantly innovating, keeping abreast—and with whatever resources at its disposal, coping and recording modest results year by year.To the general public, any reduction in crime rate in the city is not necessarily a reflection of attitudinal changes on the part of Lagosians, nor big improvement in the economic conditions of the residents. It is simply because the command now under CP Edgal has got one formula or the other working somehow. Probably one of them is the Community Policing model which the nimble CP has been nurturing since he came on board in November 2017. Much talks and conversations in official and public spheres have been woven around the subject, probably graduating to the level of the now popularly endorsed state police. CP Edgal while discussing the subject which formed part account of his stewardship reviews to his fellow alumni colleagues—the University of Jos Alumni Association Lagos chapter pointed out during a recent get-together that: “community policing became necessary because of the failure of the colonial type of policing. There was gap in the gathering of local intelligence to help in the fight against crime in the former policing system inherited from the colonialists. That was why community policing became useful” Having used the Community Policing system when he worked in Jos and Anambra state. he knows better and this has reflected in the methods the Lagos Police Command under him has effectively synergized with local vigilantes in the local areas and other auxiliary security architecture of the state like the NSCDC and the Lagos Neighborhood Security Council in fighting criminals in the city. And he has made daring exploits that attracted national attention:-the Ikorodu cult wars of 2017 when some group of deranged lads wanted to elevate brutish gang-warefare and senseless murders to routine engagement. During those periods that spanned nearly six months, Ikorodu residents started migrating in droves into already choked up parts of the city, in the upland Island and Mainland because no one could sleep with both eyes closed in those areas .The Lagos police profile that time became fanciful and was seen as the new face of entire Nigerian Police Force. The Badoo Boys, as they were then called became a test specimen the Lagos Police used to prove the effectiveness of community policing, because it helped the Command under Imohinmi in tracking and nabbing all the Badoo boys, scores of them. Expatiating further on the usefulness of community policing, the CP said: “Community policing is not a soft model however, but it is vital in modern policing, especially in a country like ours where a lot of crime take place in the hinterlands. The core values are that it relies on active partnership between police and the community, entails co-opting as a policing model, requires accountability on the part of the community, demands counter-intelligence, training of police for quality service, requires community co-operation and information, and an informed opinion about what the people want and not necessarily what they think” He also lectured that : “Community policing requires good communication network, and the public having platforms and channels for complaints.” It is for this that as soon as he came to came to Lagos in November 2017, he set up the first ever Citizens complaint Centre in the Lagos Police Command at Alausa Ikeja because as he said: “I needed to continue to engender trust between police and the community. Now people have realized it is not business as usual”. As part of his engagement activities in the state in past twenty-two months, Edgal has attended a record 21 town hall meetings, and at each forum he elucidated on the mechanics and benefits of community policing, putting that very civilian touch to the job, reflective of his orientation:- a lawyer. And the success of the community policing model is most cherished in Areas like Area F,G,H, Munshin,Festac, AJah and other areas. In the last one year, the Lagos Police Command had been able to burst hard drugs haulage worth about N500m and randomly held pre-emptive intelligence discussions with hoteliers and eatery operators on how to co-operate with the command in the area of intelligence gathering on drug movements in the city. He has received over twenty foreign diplomats and Heads of Governments who have thumbed up the CP for his innovative ways of policing Nigeria’s most populated and active city. As the election draws near, the CP says his men are as alert as any globally respected police command in ensuring peaceful conduct of the polls and see to it that politicians play by set rules. He vowed that he would not allow his integrity as a security chief, moreover as a man of law be messed up by being partisan in his duty to the electorate, INEC, the political parties, the global community that sees Nigeria as the African giant and Lagos as its prism.