ADO-EKITI – Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), legal icon and founder Afe Babalola University Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), on Monday in Ado-Ekiti said the successes recorded by his university within few years of its establishment had shamed the doom prophesy of Lord Fredrick Luggard about Africa and her people. The legal icon and founder Afe Babalola University Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) said the sterling academic performance and state-of-the art facilities put in place was a clear testimony that a Black man can as well rival their white counterparts in terms of discipline and organisation. Quoting Luggard, one of the Nigeria’s colonial masters, the founder said, “…the typical African is lacking in self-discipline, control and foresight … His thoughts are concentrated in the events and feelings of the moment and suffers little from the apprehension for the future or grief for the past. “His mind is far nearer to the animal world than that of the Europeans or Asiatic. He exhibits want of desire to beyond the state he has reached. “He lacks the power of organisation, and is conspicuously deficient in the management and control alike of men or business. He loves the display of poverty but fails to realise its responsibility.” Speaking during the twin celebrations of the university’s 10th Matriculation and milestone Academic Achievements, Babalola said, “I can proudly and boldly say that we have proved Luggard and those who shared his view wrong. He urged the National Universities Commission (NUC) and the Ministry of Education to  adopt unified examinations for final year students in every course in Nigerian universities. Babalola said it is one of the potent weapons that can be deployed to engender quality education in the country and rout the culture of laziness in the system. The lawyer added that his university had partnered NUC to move the institution beyond the minimum standard set by the commission, saying it necessitated the giant strides and records of the university. Six female students, including Miss Ekpo Naomi, emerged best graduating student in the Nigeria Law School. Miss Naomi got the star prize of N525,000 as the best graduating student ever produced by the university since inception in 2010, among other alumni that were honoured. Babalola said, “I want to suggest to NUC and the Ministry of Education that to maintain quality and high standard in Nigerian universities, the final year in all programmes across all our universities should take the same national final examinations. “In this way, every university shall work hard to ensure that their students pass the national examination thereby ensuring high standard in teaching and learning. “I am going to present a position paper to FG on this and those with influences should join in pushing it. “What we have done here in ABUAD is education revolution. We have built new generation of Nigerians, I mean a new Nigeria. We are building students who are honest, morally upright and hardworking,” he stated. He praised the educational regulatory bodies for acknowledging the revolution ABUAD has brought to the university education. In her response, Ekpo assured that the awardees shall continue to strive harder rather than relent, by ensuring that they excel wherever they find themselves to show that ABUAD is a world class university. Justice Ahmad Belgore, Justice of the Court of Appeal, advised the matriculates to play their parts and prove to the world that good things can happen in Nigeria. Justice Ayodeji Daramola, the Chief Judge of Ekiti State, described ABUAD as a “centre of excellence” that had produced quality graduates due to the fact that the university has a culture for academic and moral development. Prof. Peter Okebukola, the former Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission (NUC), in his brief lecture to mark the event, said the establishment of ABUAD has helped in stabilising and raising the bar of quality education in the continent. The academic stated that starting their undergraduate studies from an ‘elite university’ like ABUAD would go a long way in enhancing their academic careers. “For the university to maintain the present status, it has to think about the qualities and quantities of teachers being employed and students being admitted. “So, the teachers’ attitude to work matters while students reading culture is very essential. All these will affect the qualities of performance, research and other variables.” Prof. Michael Ajisafe, ABUAD’s Vice Chancellor, said the university had been described as a leader in functional educational in Nigeria and Africa. Ajisafe added that the institution has brought a paradigm shift to the University in Nigeria, having emphasised and practice the culture of academic and moral excellence. He urged the students to brace up in the faces of the daunting challenges and excel in their academics, rather than being weighed down and drop out of school.