ABUJA – The Federal government has painted a complex picture that sustains the herders and farmers clashes, suggesting that the needless bloodletting across sections of the country may persist into the future. Lt. Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazzau, Minister of Interior, who traced the intractable clashes to trans-border cattle movement, among other reasons, explained that it would also be near impossible to stop the free migration of cattle across the nation’s borders because of the ECOWAS protocol that guarantees free movement of persons. Gen Dambazzau was addressing journalists on the scorecard of the ministry and its agencies in the last three years, at a ministerial press conference in Abuja, saying that the worsening effect of climate change is also taking a toll on the availability of water and forage in parts of the country. He noted that the situation is forcing farmers to abandon their traditional farming areas to encroach on traditional and well-known cattle routes and vice-versa. According to the minister, the complex interaction of factors and rising population of the citizens aggravates the problem which politicians take advantage of in pursuit of own selfish interest. “National outrage had in the last two years been raised following the incessant herders/farmers clashes in parts of the country plateau, Benue, Nasawara, Kaduna, Zamfara, and Taraba states with the attendant loss of lives and valuables. He added: “Worse hit has been the North-central part of the country”. Consequently, he said the Ministry in the exercise of its constitutional mandate to provide internal security has held some meetings on how to end the problem. “Part of the resolutions is that there should be an international clearance certificate for the herders moving from one country to another. “When he (herder) enters into a country there must be a checkpoint area where the cattle will be inspected, there must be an international clearance certificate, the number of cows he is moving with to ensure that he does not carry a weapon of any kind and show him the route he must follow and so on. “So in doing that all these clashes between herders and farmers will be completely reduced if not eliminated because what is happening is that herders along the routes go into farms and somehow destroy the crops.” The Minister also blasted people he referred to as failed politicians that have been taking advantage of the clashes to score some points. “Part of the problems is that there have been cattle routes over the years but because population growth and climate change even farmers are moving from their traditional communities, moving elsewhere because of climate change, so now they are occupying the routes created for cattle. “Now, population growth has made it possible for people to also build homes along those routes, so when those herders are moving, they now have to look for alternative routes, in the event they destroy farms. So, this is what is happening. “And Nigeria is a signatory to ECOWAS protocol and free movement. What is happening is that we cannot stop the free movements. About 60-65 per cent of ECOWAS is here and we also move en-mass to ECOWAS countries. We move our goods to ECOWAS countries. This is why I said it is a complex and regional issue which must be tackled accordingly. “The second issue is that certain politicians also politicise this issue for their own benefits, particularly when the election is approaching and they have not been able to do well in their states, so they politicise it. So, at that meeting, we discussed with the Governors that politicising this crisis is of no benefit to anyone rather it endangers the public.” He said the ministry has initiated a wide range of reforms in its agencies resulting in the Automation of citizenship and business department. Other reforms are in the Prison, the Federal Fire Service, Police reforms, Immigration Service reforms among others. These initiates he said has benefited the revenue generating agencies of the ministry boosting their revenue to over N3.7 billion in the last three years.