Hussein Sayed, Chief Market Strategist at ForexTime (FXTM), a leading forex broker specialising in forex trading, contract for differences (CFDs), stocks, commodities and spot metals, yesterday stated that a synchronised global slowdown is expected in 2019 fuelled by trade tensions, uncertain political risk, Brexit negotiations, oil prices, and the unpredictable nature of President Trump. The financial analyst argued that a few of the lingering factors from last year would continue to impact financial markets in 2019. “The final quarter of 2018 will be remembered as a dramatic one for financial markets. Don’t expect this trend to change in the early period of 2019,” he said in a note to DAILY INDEPENDENT Monday. “Financial markets have been severely hit by accelerating signs of an economic slowdown, trade concerns, geopolitical risks, and the tightening of U.S. monetary policy. Volatility has returned with steep moves to the downside. Selling the rallies is now seen as a preferred strategy from investors as opposed to buying the dips, which has been closely followed by traders over the last several years,” he said. Sayed noted that while global synchronised economic growth was the key theme in 2017, year 2018 saw the divergence between the U.S. and the rest of the world, adding that in 2019 “we are likely to converge again, but this time in a synchronised global slowdown.” He said the global slowdown would be orchestrated by happenings in the US economy. While acknowledging that many indicators have indicated a peak in the U.S. economic cycle, including most recent economic surveys, financial conditions, housing data, and the inversion of the U.S. Treasury yield curve, he said adding these with trade tensions, political risk, fading fiscal stimulus, and a tighter U.S. monetary policy; the economic outlook is expected to look much more vulnerable in 2019. “It is becoming evident that the U.S. economy has reached an inflection point. This doesn’t necessarily mean we are immediately entering a recession but expect much slower growth than the 4.2% seen in the second quarter of 2018. In such an environment, investors need to be prepared for a more volatile year as markets adjust to a new reality of slower economic growth.” He noted that a global slowdown would affect emerging markets more, especially countries that rely solely on commodities like Nigeria and with volatility in oil prices Nigeria could be penned back to fund its budget, which it relies solely for revenues.