Sterling governors, Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State; Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa; Nyesom Wike of Rivers; Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia; Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, and Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State were at their iconic best on Thursday when they received the Independent Awards 2018 for their diverse achievements amidst glitz and glamour. The award ceremony held at Eko Hotels and Suites in Lagos, ranked among the most credible in recent times, witnessed a parade of heavy weight political and business personalities in the land, including publisher of Independent Newspapers and former governor of Delta State, James Ibori; another renowned publisher, Sam Amuka (Uncle Sam), and Engr. Mansur Ahmed, who was chairman of the occasion. Governor Dickson of Bayelsa received the Man of the Year 2018 Award; Dr. Okowa of Delta received the Governor of the Year 2018 Award, while Governor Wike of Rivers received the Political Icon of the Year 2018. Also, Dr. Ikpeazu of Abia received Governor of the Year 2018 Award in Entrepreneurship; and Ugwuanyi of Enugu received Governor of the Year 2018 in Grassroots Development. In other categories, Senate President Bukola Saraki received the National Legislator of the Year 2018 Award; Rt. Hon. Onofiok Akpan Luke, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly Speaker, received the Outstanding State Legislator of the Year 2018 Award. Notably, Aare Afe Babalola, founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD) received the Achiever of the Year 2018 Award while Alhaji Ismaila Isa Funtua received the Life Achievement Award, same as Prince Samuel Adedoyin. Chief John Nnia Nwodo Jnr, President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and Aare Gani Adams, Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, jointly received the Bridge Builder of the Year 2018 Award. Activist and Ekiti State First Lady, Erelu Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi, received the Gender Activist of the Year 2018 Award. Amongst celluloid celebrities, Mary Njoku emerged Entertainment Personality of the Year 2018 while Odunlade Adekola won the Actor of the Year 2018 Award. Amongst corporate institutions, Air Peace Airline won Airline of the Year 2018 Award; Leadway Assurance was Insurance Company of the Year 2018; the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) was Federal Agency of the Year, and the National Pension Commission was voted Outstanding Regulator of the Year 2018. Big time player, Globacom Limited, was picked as Telecommunications Company of 2018 while Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) emerged Outstanding State Agency of the Year 2018. Also present at the well-attended event were distinguished Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders including former South West Deputy Chairman, Chief Bode George; former Ogun State governor, Gbenga Daniel; Lagos PDP governorship candidate, Jimi Agbaje, among others.