LAGOS – Lagos Deep Offshore Logistic Base, LADOL has been selected by London Stock Exchange (LSE) as one of its companies to Inspire in Africa 2019. The report by the LSE was launched on Wednesday at the opening of the market in London at the LSE, according to a statement yesterday. Dr. Amy Jadesimi, Managing Director of LADOL said: “LADOL is honoured to be included in London Stock Exchange’s (LSE) list of Companies to Inspire Africa. We thank the entire LSE team for all their hard work in complying with the report and today’s launch, at which I was proud to be invited to speak. LSE’s high-profile focus on real indigenous private sector companies across the African continent is an important step in highlighting the fact that Africa is already home to a thriving and growing number of leading companies. The broad range of companies represented show how shallow investment understanding of our currently markets is and how many opportunities there are for investment today. We look forward to working with the LSE and cooperating with the other indigenous companies highlighted.” She explained that investment in Africa is about the market case, noting that instead of eking out low returns from investments in developed markets, international investors should focus on the many hugely lucrative market opportunities across Africa. “Investing in Africa requires a seismic change in investment strategy – international investors that want to remain relevant and viable need to immediately invest in new diverse teams and new financial instruments that will enable them to invest in Africa. Teams that use outdated and inappropriate bankability definitions will continue to struggle to tap into this highly lucrative market.” “Operating out of LADOL saves IOCs 50% on their costs in deep offshore logistics, saving billions of USD each year. This compelling value proposition was well known for over decade and a half, yet today LADOL is the only deep offshore support base in Lagos. A clear example of how international investors are missing out on billon dollar investment opportunities by not investing in market case-based business models in Africa,” Dr. Amy said.