Tony Ezimako, TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, INNOCENT OWEH, STEPHEN OBIMAGBO, Samuel Ogidan President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday, ordered the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen, replacing him with Justice Tanko Muhammad. To justify the action, the presidency said it was to pave way for the trial of the embattled CJN in the Code of Conduct Tribunal, especially in other instances where he has been alleged to have breached the Code of Conduct for Public Officers. The President also gave the impression that he was surprised that no less a person as the CJN was accused in a corruption trial since details of the petition against him by a Civil Society Organisation (CSO) first became public about a fortnight ago. Justice Muhammad, who takes over from Onnoghen in Acting capacity is by ranking the next most senior Justice of the Supreme Court. The President hinged the suspension of Onnoghen on his anti-corruption policy. Buhari said, “A short while ago, I was served with an Order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal issued on Wednesday 23rd January 2019, directing the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Honourable Justice Walter Nkanu Samuel Onnoghen from office pending final determination of the cases against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal and several other fora relating to his alleged breach of the Code of Conduct for Public Officers. “The nation has been gripped by the tragic realities of no less a personality than the Chief Justice of Nigeria himself becoming the accused person in a corruption trial since details of the petition against him by a Civil Society Organisation first became public about a fortnight ago. “Although the allegations in the petition are grievous enough in themselves, the security agencies have since then traced other suspicious transactions running into millions of dollars to the CJN’s personal accounts, all  undeclared or improperly declared as required by law. “Perhaps more worrisome is the Chief Justice of Nigeria’s own written admission to the charges that he indeed failed to follow the spirit and letter of the law in declaring his assets, citing ’’mistake’’ and ’’forgetfulness’’ which are totally unknown to our laws as defences in the circumstances of his case. “One expected that with his moral authority so wounded, by these serious charges of corruption, more so by his own written admission, Mr. Justice Walter Onnoghen would have acted swiftly to spare our Judicial Arm further disrepute by removing himself from superintending over it while his trial lasted. “Unfortunately, he has not done so. Instead, the nation has been treated to the sordid spectacle of a judicial game of wits in which the Chief Justice of Nigeria and his legal team have made nonsense of the efforts of the Code of Conduct Tribunal to hear the allegation on merit and conclude the trial as quickly as possible considering the nature of the times in which we live. “Whether deliberately or inadvertently, we have all seen the full weight of the Chief Justice of Nigeria descend on the tender head of one of the organs of justice under his control. There is simply no way the officers of that court, from the Chairman to the bailiffs, can pretend to be unaffected by the influence of the leader of the Judiciary. “Not only the trial court, but others have been put on the spot. Practically every other day since his trial commenced, the nation has witnessed various courts granting orders and counter-orders in favour of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, all of them characterised by an unholy alacrity between the time of filing, hearing and delivery of judgment in same. “The real effect has been a stalling of the trial of Justice Onnoghen, helped along by lawyers who insist that these orders, whether right or wrong are technically valid, and must be obeyed till an appellate Court says otherwise. No doubt, that it is the proper interpretation, but is it the right disposition for our nation? “Nigeria is a constitutional democracy and no one must be, or be seen to be, above the law. Unfortunately, the drama around the trial of the Chief Justice of Nigeria has challenged that pillar of justice in the perception of the ordinary man on the street. For it is certain that no ordinary Nigerian can get the swift and special treatment Justice Onnoghen has enjoyed from his subordinates and privies in our Judicature. “In the midst of all these distracting events, the essential question of whether the accused CJN actually has a case to answer has been lost in the squabble over the form and nature of his trial. This should not be so. “If Justice cannot be done and clearly seen to be done, society itself is at risk of the most unimaginable chaos. As a Government, we cannot stand by wailing and wringing our hands helplessly but give our full backing and support to those brave elements within the Judiciary who act forthrightly, irrespective of who is involved. “As you are all aware, the fight against corruption is one of the tripods of policies promised to Nigerians by this administration.  Needless to say that it is an existential Policy which must be given adequate attention and commitment by all the three arms of government. The efforts of the Executive will amount to nothing without the cooperation of the Legislature and especially the Judiciary. “It is no secret that this government is dissatisfied with the alarming rate in which the Supreme Court of Nigeria under the oversight of Justice Walter Onnoghen has serially set free, persons accused of the most dire acts of corruption, often on mere technicalities, and after quite a number of them have been convicted by the trial and appellate courts. “Since there is nothing the Executive Arm can do after the apex court of the land has spoken on any matter, several of these individuals walk free among us today, enjoying what are clearly the proceeds of the corruption which for so long has defeated the efforts of this nation to develop and prosper. “It is against this background that I have received the Order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal directing me to suspend the Chief Justice pending final determination of the cases against him. It also explains why I am not only complying immediately, but with some degree of relief for the battered sensibilities of ordinary Nigerians whose patience must have become severely over-taxed by these anomalies. “In line with this administration’s avowed respect for the Rule of Law, I have wholeheartedly obeyed the Order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal dated 23rd January 2019. “Accordingly, I hereby suspend the Honourable Mr. Justice Walter Nkanu Samuel Onnoghen, GCON as the Chief Justice of Nigeria pending final determination of the case against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal. “In further compliance with the same Order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal, I hereby invite Honourable Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed JSC, being the next most Senior Justice in the Supreme Court, to come forward to take the Judicial Oath as Chief Justice of Nigeria in an Acting Capacity. “Fellow Nigerians, we can only stand a chance to win the fight against Corruption, and position our dear nation for accelerated development when we stand together to contend against it,” the president stated. The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders forum have described the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria  (CJN), Onnoghen by President Buhari as a coup against constitutional democracy. In a statement signed by Chief E K Clark (South South), Ayo Adebanjo (South  West), Chief John Nwodo (South East) and Dr Pogu Bitrus (Midddle Belt), the leaders in a statement titled ‘Constitutional Crisis As Buhari Illegally Suspends CJN’ , the leaders said they have checked through the constitution and found out that President Buhari lacks the power to suspend the CJN uniterally except by 2/3 of the National Assembly. The statement reads: “The attention of Southern and Middle Belt Leaders has been drawn to a coup against Constitutional Democracy in Nigeria  by President Muhammadu Buhari by the Suspension of CJN Walter Onoghen this evening and swearing in a replacement. This is a constitutional crisis foisted by desperation and morbid desire to foist rule of thumb” “We have checked through the constitution and the President has no power to unilaterally suspend the CJN. Section 292 of the amended 1999 Constitution is clear that the President can only remove the CJN with 2/3 of Senate resolution. To us what has been done is resort to self-help after the Court of Appeal issued an order stopping the trial of the CJN by the CCT presided over by a man answering charges in court over corruption  allegations but still in office. “The latest action is a clear suspension of the constitution and enthronement of full blown dictatorship. We reject the illegal suspension and demand its immediate reversal. The suspension is null and void and of no effect whatever. “An emergency meeting of the Forum holds shortly on this total aberration. We call on all  Nigerians to wake up to the reality that our democracy is now under threat and use all constitutional means to defend it. We must not surrender to this authoritarian rule,” the leaders said. Also speaking with Yusuf Ali (SAN), he said the president has no power under the constitution to suspend unilaterally the CJN. “As far as my knowledge can carry me, there are two ways of suspending the CJN under the constitution. One, a report will go from the president to the senate. And the senate will pass a resolution with two third majority for the suspension of the CJN. Secondly, a report can be made to the National Judicial Council (NJC) which will through a decision, ask the president to suspend the CJN.” On the implication of the suspension, he said Onnoghen still remains the CJN, though cannot function until the suspension is lifted. He said with this development, the rule of law is under siege in the country. Chief Goddy Uwazuruike, lawyer and President, aka Ikenga, a Pan-Igbo socio-cultural organisation has also described the suspension of Justice Onnoghen, as having all the features of a coup, since it is an unconstitutional act. “To the extent that this action is unconstitutional, it has all the features of a coup,” he said. Speaking to Saturday INDEPENDENT on Friday, while expressing utter shock at the development, the lawyer said the action was orchestrated, precipitous, well-timed and oozing of political overtones. “My reaction is simply one of shock. There are three arms of government, and never in the history of this country has the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), the head of the judicial arm of government, been removed or suspended from office by the head of the executive arm of government, the president,” he said. He added, “The procedure for the removal of the CJN is clearly spelt out in the Constitution. The National Judicial Council (NJC) has a role; the president as well as the Senate all have their statutory roles in the exercise. “But as it is today, what input did the NJC make in this precipitous act? Which section of the Constitution did the president rely on to carry out this action? That also shows that they orchestrated the media trial of the CJN so as to create the avenue to remove him. “A week ago, news filtered in that the Federal Government had asked the CJN to resign. Of course our able Vice President said Buhari did not know anything about it. They said the president did not know anything about the travails of the CJN and now he has allegedly been suspended. The question is: Who suspended him then, since the president is said not to be in the know of these developments? Is it the Attorney General or is it one of the president’s ministers? Who also swore in the alleged acting CJN? The charade has been exposed.” Uwazurike maintained that the action is impeachable, saying , “The question now is whether this action qualifies for the impeachment of the President? Yes, I must submit, because it is an unconstitutional act. At the moment the Senate has adjourned its sitting until the 17th of February. In other words, the action was well timed, just when the Senate was not sitting. “It remains to be seen whether Saraki is going to reconvene the Senate. This action, in my view, is a clear constitutional breach. It is so weighty that the nation must rise up to stop it.” The lawyer is also of the view that the action reads like one orchestrated to frustrate the coming election. He maintains that it was triggered as the president’s last ditch effort calculated at manipulating the outcome of the election. “It also reads like some people are working a script to truncate the coming election. Perhaps this is the reason why one of Buhari’s ministers the other day was talking about Interim Government. Why will anybody be talking about Interim Government at this moment?,” he said “Remember the CJN had already fixed the swearing in of the Electoral Tribunal judges on Monday. So it looks like a preemptive step to stop him, considering that the matter is still in court. Why was the president not willing to allow the judicial process to run its course? “This morning they flew the kite that the CJN has resigned, not until the CJN’s office came out to deny the claim. That was when I smelt a rat, that this people are making the final push. “To the extent that this action is unconstitutional, it has all the features of a coup. “Remember this development is not isolated. We all saw how they tried to use unconstitutional means to remove the leader of the Senate Saraki using the DSS, police, etc, and they said the president knew nothing about it. “Now the question is whether the so-called acting CJN whose appointment has no input of the NJC, as required by law, has the power to carry out the functions of a CJN. Certainly not. “They have thrown this country into a judicial quagmire. They perhaps have contrived a judicial crisis, because for you to have even an acting CJN, the NJC must recommend him to the President. “We are in trouble. People who don’t know what governance is are the ones in power in Nigeria today. “ Speaking with deep frustration, Mr Dele Adesina (SAN), in an exclusive chat with Daily Independent, said, “I beg you in the name of God I am too demoralized to talk. “I was driving when this information came to me, and I could not continue with my driving. All I can say is that I am too demoralised with what is happening in the country under this government.” President of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki also described the suspension as a coup against democracy and a deliberate attempt to endanger the nation’s hard-won democracy. Saraki, in a statement said that the suspension was another act of desperation by President Buhari, adding that by the suspension of the CJN, Buhari has acted outside the provision of the Constitution. Saraki said that President Buhari has exercised the powers, which he does not have and that this action amounted to gross misconduct. Reacting, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), described as an outright coup the suspension of the CJN. In a statement, NBA rejected Mr Onnoghen’s replacement with another Supreme Court justice, Ibrahim Tanko, and called on President Buhari to immediately reverse the suspension to avert a constitutional crisis. The NBA described the recent developments as a step towards anarchy and demanded its immediate retraction. The presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar also described the suspension of the CJN as dictatorship taken too far. This is even as leadership of PDP said that such impunity cannot stand, as Nigeria is a nation governed by law and not by the whims and caprices of a dictatorial leader. Rejecting the suspension, Atiku, in a statement said: “The purported suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria by President Muhammadu Buhari, is an anti-democratic act which I reject in it’s entirely and call on Justice Onnoghen and the judiciary to resist with every legal and constitutional means that they can muster.” Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank has urged  the international community to urgently prevail on President Buhari to retrace his step on CJN’s suspension. In an email he sent to the United Kingdom (UK), United States of America (USA) and the European Union representatives in Nigeria, on Friday night, Frank notes that the action of the president has set the stage for massive disobedience that  may lead to an unfathomable chaos, anarchy and possible descent to a civil war in the country. He called on Nigerians and the international community to know that by illegally suspending Onnoghen, Buhari has just begun the implementation of his NEXT LEVEL AGENDA.