Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Almost every well meaning Nigerian is talking about restructure and devolution of powers. With the exception of few individuals and states who are benefitting from the present day imbalanced system and unjust structure of government, most people are fed up with the current centralisation of power, and one single treasury account; which have caused a lot of delay in the execution of projects, injustice, tension and agitations. Some people are fed up with Nigeria and are even ready to form their sovereign independent nation, while many others who want to remain in Nigeria are insisting on restructuring and devolution of powers, as a way forward. There is no doubt, most of the agitations in the country, especially the agitations from MASSOB and IPOB,  has gone a long way in creating awareness on the injustice and imbalanced system of government in Nigeria. Without those agitations I doubt if Nigerians would have seen the need for restructuring. Without those agitations most people would have taken the one-sided political appointments for granted. Some of the regions would have been suffering and dying in silence. Without those agitations one particular region would have continued to produce Presidential candidate without any remorse and any consideration of other regions.Thereby seeing political powers as their birth right. Their extreme move for secession may not be the way forward, but at least they have achieved something by convincing the world, especially the Nigerians on the importance of restructuring and devolution of power. They have also succeeded in encouraging the people on how to hold their leaders accountable for all their actions. Whether we are talking of restructure or secession, one thing that is common is that every region wants to gain autonomy, they want to control and develop their natural resources, they want to be more responsible and above all, they want to get a share of their own national cake. Those who are seeking for secession are looking for absolute autonomy whereas those who are advocating for restructuring are looking for certain level of autonomy within the same nation. “ I believe, this is more realistic. One does not necessarily have to break out from Nigeria in order to gain autonomy. We can as well advocate for unity in di There will be no autonomy without devolution of power from the centre. Autonomy means gaining more power, more freedom and of course, more responsibility. Because to whom much is given much is expected. “Autonomy is the foundation of empowerment and self-actualisation. Without autonomy we cannot discover our potentialities. We need autonomy both at regional and state level. Any individual or a state that is controlled by external forces can never discover their ability and potentiality. “We can only expect much from an individual or a state when we grant them the autonomy to actualise more. Without autonomy there will be no healthy competition”. Autonomy is indeed the essence of development. Where there is no autonomy there is little or no sense of development. Freedom is the essence of autonomy. Children of God are not and should not be in bondage. They are free citizens. That is why St. Paul declares, “For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery” (Galatians 5:1). To be under the yoke of slavery is to be controlled by external forces. These external forces could be spiritual, intellectual or even political. Albert Camus defines as the essence of life as the increase of freedom and responsibility: “The aim of art, the aim of a life can only be to increase the sum of freedom and responsibility to be found in every man and in the world. It cannot, under any circumstances, be to reduce or suppress that freedom, even temporarily.” Without freedom there will be no responsibility. More freedom – more responsibility! Instead of limiting people’s freedom and responsibility, Delphine de Girardin is of the view that men should be allow their fellow men to be free and responsible: “Men must stop being jealous of their power and generously allow freedom and responsibility to others. The reward is harmonious families and society.” Freedom and responsibility, therefore is the foundation of harmony and peaceful co-existence. Autonomy does not mean anarchy. In fact, there is nothing like absolute autonomy. A tree cannot make a forest. No one is an island. We cannot exist in isolation. In his letter to the Romans 13:1-2, St Paul declares, “Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment.” Autonomy or devolution of power does not mean secession. To whom much is given much is expected. Freedom, according to Eleanor Roosevelt, “makes a huge requirement of every human being. With freedom comes responsibility. For the person who is unwilling to grow up, the person who does not want to carry is own weight, this is a frightening prospect.” Responsibility is a sign of growth. Without freedom or autonomy there will be no responsibility and without responsibility there will be no growth. The states or the regions should be allowed to develop and control their economy, their treasure and resources. By so doing they will not be expecting monthly allocations from the Federal government. Instead the Federal government should be expecting little tax from the states. With this autonomy, the state will not wait for the Federal government to come all the way from the capital city to construct or maintain roads across their states. With this, every state will be more responsible and there will be a healthy competition across the states in Nigeria. Imagine a situation where the states are allowed to control their security agencies. The state will not wait for the Federal government before they could control their territories.  For instance, in places like Benue and other states where the so-called herdsmen have taken over people’s villages and thereby forcing citizens to live in IDP camps. Even when the IG was instructed to relocate to Benue to restore peace in those areas, he could not spend a week there because he was not from Benue and he was not was accountable to the people and government of Benue. At a stage the governor of Benue have to cry out that the federal government have abandoned them to suffer at the hand of the herdsmen. “Am sure if Benue state enjoys security autonomy they would have reclaimed most of their villages that were taken over by the herdsmen. By the way, I can’t understand why people home should be forcefully taken away from them and yet we have security agencies in Nigeria. Since the beginning of this year we have been hearing of python dance being launched in different states of Nigeria. If we have such number of solders to be deployed in various states in Nigeria just because of election what stops the Federal government from using the soldiers to drive the so-called foreign herdsmen who are going about taking people’s villages. Interestedly, the President rightly said that those herdsmen are not Fulani herdsmen. That is the more reason why they should be declared terrorists. I see no reason why the foreigners should be dislodging people from their homeland, yet we have security agencies. If the states should gain their security autonomy, the federal government will not be using the police or the military men to intimidate people during elections. In a nutshell, we can still live together as one nation – one Nigeria. To avoid all forms of injustice and agitations, we need to restructure our country, reduce the power at the centre and grant autonomy to the states and local government. This is what true federal system of government is all about.