Globally, tourist arrival figures released by United Nations World Travel Organisation (UNWTO) were highest in the Middle East (up 10%), Africa (up 7%), Asia and the Pacific, and Europe (both up 6%). The Americas were below the world average (up 3%), with Central America and the Caribbean with a fall of 2%. The growth of tourism in recent years confirms that the sector is today one of the most powerful drivers of economic growth and development. In this report, OYENIRAN APATA, OLUSEGUN KOIKI, and CHRIS EBONG examine the need for Nigeria to manage the prospects therein.  Excerpts: The broader nature of travel and tourism sector as it encompasses virtually the entire gamut of the economic life of a country, community and its people makes its definition vary source by source, person by person. Robert Woodrow McIntosh and Charles R. Goeldner said: “Tourism is a collection of activities, services and industries which deliver a travel experience comprising transportation, accommodation, eating and drinking establishments, retail shops, entertainment businesses and other hospitality services provided for individuals or groups travelling away from home” “The sum of the phenomena and relationships arising from the interaction of tourists, business suppliers, host governments and host communities in the process of attracting and hosting these tourists and other visitors” The World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) an organ of the United Nations charged with the responsibility for the promotion of responsible, sustainable and universally accessible tourism said: “Tourism comprises the activities of persons travelling to and staying in places outside their usual environment for not more than one consecutive year for leisure, business and other purposes.” Tourism is different from travel. In order for tourism to happen, there must be a displacement: an individual has to travel, using any type of means of transportation (he might even travel on foot: nowadays, it is often the case for poorer societies and happens even in more developed ones, and concerns pilgrims, hikers. But all travel is not tourism. According to UNWTO three criteria are used simultaneously in order to characterise a trip as belonging to tourism. The displacement must be such that it involves a displacement outside the usual environment. Efforts made by the government include according to the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, a partnership with the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) in the implementation of the National Tourism Development master plan in order to optimally harness the country’s tourism potential. The minister disclosed this in Abuja on Wednesday when he declared open the Fourth Tourism Investors Forum and Exhibition organized by the Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN). He said the programmes and policies is meant to fully harness the country’s vast tourism potential over the next one and half decades are anchored on the National Tourism Development Master Plan. According to him, the UNWTO is already seeking the support of some donor agencies to assist Nigeria with funds for the execution of the project on the Strengthening of National Tourism Statistical System and the development of a Tourism Satellite Account for Nigeria. 1.4bn Global Arrivals As An Index For Exploration According to UNWTO in a recent report explained that International tourist arrivals grew six per cent in 2018, totalling 1.4 billion. Long term forecasts issued by the organisation in 2010 indicated the 1.4 billion marks would be reached in 2020, yet the remarkable growth of international arrivals in recent years has seen the milestone reached two years earlier. In relative terms, the Middle East (up 10 per cent), Africa (up seven per cent), Asia and the Pacific and Europe (both at up six per cent) led growth in 2018. Zurab Pololikashvili, the UNWTO Secretary-General, in his conviction of the indicators economic development for developing countries said: “The growth of tourism in recent years confirms that the sector is today one of the most powerful drivers of economic growth and development. “It is our responsibility to manage it in a sustainable manner and translate this expansion into real benefits for all countries, and particularly, to all local communities, creating opportunities for jobs and entrepreneurship and leaving no one behind,” he said Based on current trends, economic prospects and the UNWTO Confidence Index, UNWTO forecasts international arrivals to grow three to four per cent next year, more in line with historic growth trends. Africa’s travel and tourism industry continue to record impressive growth over the years. In 2017, the continent hit a 63 million high in international tourist arrivals as compared to 58million in 2016 (+ 9% vs 2016). The growth record is slightly above the global performance of a 7% rise in 2017, to reach a total of 1,323 million international tourist arrivals. Africa’s share of international tourist arrivals stood at 5%. Europe’s share  51%, Asia and the Pacific 24%, Americas 16% and the Middle East 4% respectively. Results for Africa were driven by the continued recovery in Tunisia & Morocco and strong performance in Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire, Mauritius and Zimbabwe. Island destinations Seychelles, Cabo Verde and Reunion recorded double-digit growth in arrivals. The African economy has been gaining momentum, with the real output growth estimated to have increased by 3.8% in 2017 and expected to reach 4.1% by 2018/2019. Travel and tourism contributed a total of 8.1% to Africa’s GDP ($177.6 bn) in 2017. This percentage is expected to rise by 3.7% (to reach 12%) in 2018. Moreover, the direct contribution to the GDP stood at 3.3% in 2017. Considered one of the most important economic activities in Africa, travel and tourism significantly impacted the GDP, by generating$37 bn in international visitor expenditure in 2017. The industry is also a major employer in the continent, supporting over 22 million jobs in 2017, approximately 6.5% of total employment. These include jobs directly and indirectly supported by the industry and are expected to rise by 3.1% in 2018 to 23 million jobs. Top Spenders In International Tourism China continues to lead global outbound travel in terms of expenditure. Tourism expenditure from the United States, the world’s second largest source market, increased by $13 billion compared to 2016  (+9%), the largest increase in absolute terms among the top spenders. The   Russian Federation rebounded strongly (+30%) after a few years of decline climbing three places to re-enter the top ten at number 8. All other sourced markets among the top ten recorded increases with particularly strong results in the Republic of Korea, Italy and Canada.