Uyo – The Akwa Ibom State Gov Udom Emmanuel’s Campaign Organization has Constituted Legal Defence Team. According to the Director General of the Divine Mandate Campaign Organization, Otuekong Idongesit Nkanga the measure was meant to combat overzealousness, intimidation, illegal arrest and detention, malicious prosecution and other forms of highhandedness by the police as build up to the elections. The nine-man Integrated Legal Defence Center was iinauguratedover the weekend by the Governor Udom Emmanuel’s re-election campaign team, the Divine Mandate Campaign Organization. The Centre, located at the campaign headquarters along Edet Akpan Avenue,  serves as a robust response mechanism for all party supporters who are currently victims of Police overzealousness, intimidation, illegal arrest and detention. Nkanga, while performing the inauguration said the center is to among other responsibilities, tackle issues bordering on fears which has ostensibly overwhelmed the electorate due  tothe chants of war songs by the opposition party. He urged them to hit the ground running to ensure that the seeming fears which may scare electorate away from polling units isarellayed. Other members of the center are Hon. Udo Ekpenyong – Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Capt. Iniobong Ekong, Akparawa Michael Bush, Barr Ini Ememobong – PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr. Victor Ukpong, Mr. Essien Ndueso, Isantim Kenneth Okon, and Barr Sam Ikpo Responding, the Chairman of the Center, Barr Andem Ndem commended the campaign organisation for the composition of the center says it was made up of a rare stock of competent professionals who have made laudable marks in their different careers. The Chairman noted that they had started some background checks and assured that it was on top of the situation to deliver on its mandate. Present at the inauguration were Elder Benjamin Udobia- Deputy Director General, Divine Mandate, Hon. Prince Enobong Uwah – Secretary Divine Mandate, Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Hon Monday Ebong Uko, and Hon Emmanuel Ibiok the Director of Public Communications in the campaign team.