Former President Olusegun Obasanjo last week attacked President Muhammadu Buhari, accusing him of plotting to rig the 2019 general elections. Buhari, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is seeking re-election for second term in the election that has been slated for February 16. Obasanjo spoke through an open letter titled “Point for Concern and Action”, and distributed to journalists during a press conference held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta, Ogun State. Apart from alleging that Buhari was planning to rig the coming election, Obasanjo also accused the President of acting like the late General Sani Abacha, a former military dictator. Obasanjo said: “Buhari has succeeded in deceiving us the first time and we will be fools to allow ourselves to be deceived the second time.” He claimed that what is happening in Nigeria under Buhari can be likened to what Nigerians witnessed under a late military dictator, Sani Abacha. Abacha ruled Nigeria between 1993 and 1998, died in office while trying to perpetuate himself in office. Obasanjo said: “He went for broke and surrounded himself with hatchet men who on his order and in his interest and at high costs to Nigeria and Nigerians, maimed, tortured and killed for Abacha. Buhari has started on the same note on the same path in mad desperation.” He alleged that Buhari and his party were recruiting collation officers who he alleged weree already awarding election results. “It is the sole reason he has blatantly refused to sign the revised Electoral Bill into law. His henchmen are working round the clock in cahoots with security and election officials to perfect their plan by computing results right from the ward to local government, state and national levels to allot him what will look like a landslide victory irrespective of the true situation for a candidate who might have carried out by proxy presidential debate and campaigns.” He said the plan was to drape the pre-determined results with a toga of credibility and use violence of unimaginable proportion which would be unleashed in high voting population areas across the country to precipitate re-run elections. Obasanjo said: “We are monitoring them and we call on all democrats across the world to keep an eye on the unfolding anti-democratic agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari. This is the time for preventive measures to be taken, otherwise Nigeria may be presented with a fait accompli with impunity and total disregard of all pleas.” PDP Reacts To Abasanjo’s Allegation The Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP), the nation’s main opposition party, immediately reacted to the concerns raised by Obasanjo over Buhari’s alleged scheme to use the apparatus of state power to subjugate Nigerians. The party said Obasanjo’s allegation that Buhari had been plotting to “undermine our democratic system, subvert the electoral process and perpetuate himself in office”, had vindicated its stand that the President was out for a self-succession plot. PDP said Obasanjo’s submission also reinforced its position that Buhari, and his party, the APC, “having realised that there is no way he can win in a free and fair election, is now besieging all democratic institutions, including the Judiciary, the Legislature, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), while engaging in acts that threaten the unity, peace and corporate existence of our dear nation.” Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP’s spokesperson’s statement, read: “The whole world can see how President Buhari and APC’s desperation for power is putting the lives of over 200 million Nigerian citizens at great risk as their actions stoke violence and push our dear nation to the precipice. “We are however not surprised that the APC, a party that has shown that it is completely anti-people, quickly rose in defence of the Buhari Presidency’s assault on our democratic order. The APC has always been a deceptive soulless mob that would rather have our nation burn than to be out of power. “President Obasanjo’s concern is therefore a clarion call to all compatriots, irrespective of ethnic, religious and political affiliations to rise in defence of our democracy. “He has reinforced the fact that this nation belong to all of us; that our pride as a people lies in our resilience and globally acclaimed ability to rise above and defeat every situation that challenges our nationhood.” The PDP called on all Nigerians to “be at alert at this critical time to stop President Buhari and the APC on their anti-democratic trails with our votes. “We should never allow anybody to set our nation on fire just to achieve selfish ambitions. We must eschew all our differences and unite in using our votes to take back our country from this dwindling, incompetent, ineffectual, corrupt and anti-people administration. “If we don’t take action with our votes, we would be giving up our nation to totalitarian forces at our own peril and those of generations yet unborn.” APC Responds The APC, Buhari’s party, also pushed out its reaction to Obasanjo’s statement. The ruling party said that Obasanjo was being haunted by his past when, according to it, elections were rigged and government institutions denied independence. Lanre Issa-Onilu, the APC National Publicity Secretary, who spoke to the media in Abuja, stated that, “For eight years of President Obasanjo, all the elections he held…in fact government policies were determined by whatever mood he found himself. “All the institutions of government were heavily influenced by Obasanjo. What he did for those eight years is what is haunting him. He cannot imagine it is possible for a government to allow INEC the statutory independence that it has.” Onilu maintained that elections conducted under the APC government so far were credible, adding that the party should be commended for allowing institutions to perform their duties without interference. Presidency Replies Obasanjo The Presidency also responded to Obasanjo’s allegation. It dismissed  issues raised by the former President, saying that security crises and impunity were rife under the ex-President’s administration between 1999 and 2007. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President Muhammadu on Media and Publicity, who featured in Sunday Politics, a news and current affairs programme of Channels Television, said thousands of lives were lost under Obasanjo administration. On Obasanjo’s allegation that Buhari and the APC planned to rig the general elections,  Adesina said, “Imagine that kind of allegation coming from somebody who told us in 2007 that the election would be a ‘do-or-die affair.  If somebody had said the election would be a ‘do-or- die’ affair and it was ‘do- or- die’ affair and the beneficiary of that election came out to say that the election that brought him to power was marred; now, for that person to allege that elections were not going to be free and fair, were they free and fair when he conducted his own?” On the allegation that the security crisis in the country was deteriorating, Adesina said, “Under Obasanjo was when we had the Odi massacre; under him was when we had the Zaki Biam massacre; under him, there were lots of clashes involving the OPC and other ethnic groups, there were Shari’ah riots under him, and thousands of lives were lost even under his administration.” Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari also added his voice. Through a statement he issued, the Presidency said Obasanjo needed “a good doctor for good treatment and to say to him, ‘Get well soon.” He added: “This language of his 16-page letter, likening President Buhari to General Sani Abacha, a man he dreaded and the one who jailed him under military laws, is most unfitting from a former President of Nigeria. “The claim that President Buhari has put in place rigging machinery is both outlandish and outrageous. We are unable to get the words to describe a 90-year-old liar, except to say that by the publication of this tissue of lies against the President, he Obasanjo, not the President, will fall from everyone’s esteem.” INEC Boss Speaks However, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC),in his response, said the commission was not under pressure to do what was wrong. Yakubu, who rose from a meeting with the new Acting Inspector General of Police, Abubakar Mohammed Adamu in Abuja, reacting to Obasanjo’s claim that the integrity of INEC to conduct a free, fair and credible elections was in doubt. He said: “This is to be expected in an election year when people make all sorts of insinuations. I want to tell you that we as a commission have never been under any pressure to do what is wrong. “We will never compromise our integrity to do what the law says that we shouldn’t and for the 2019 general elections, I want to assure and reassure Nigerians that votes and nothing but votes will count. “With this level of cooperation from the security agencies, I want to assure you that Nigerians will have a pleasant voting experience in 2019.” He added that the nation was looking forward to INEC and the Nigeria Police Force to conduct credible elections. “An unimpeded access will be granted by the commission to the media during the elections. The more we collaborate with the police, the easier the prosecution of election offenders. “We are going to consult the security agencies for the deployment of personnel for the elections. “We must work in partnership to give Nigerians a pleasant election in the upcoming elections, our responsibility is to serve the Nigerian people.” Since the allegation, Nigerians had been wondering if the alarm raised by Obasanjo against Buhari could be taken seriously Obasanjo Knows What He Is Saying – Commentator Gabriel Edokpa Agboyi, a Benin-based public affairs commentator, said: “There is a parable in my place that he who beheads people’s mother is always aware of any plan to behead his own mother. “This is what I believe is happening between Obasanjo and Buhari. If not, how did Obasanjo get to know that Buhari has perfected plans to rig next election? “Nigerians should have every reason to believe Obasanjo because he was elected twice as a president of this country. Therefore, Buhari’s opponents should not only believe the allegation, but should liaise with Papa Iyabo to direct them on how to counter the alleged rigging plan. “Obasanjo is an elder statesman who cannot be raising false alarm. Yes, Nigerians should treat the allegation with seriousness, especially the PDP, the major opponent, should plan how to counter the alleged rigging plan of Buhari, because, there is no doubt that the election will either be won by the APC that is very desperate to remain in power, or the PDP that is also very anxious to regain power .” Obasanjo’s Alarm Should Not Be Taken Lightly – Analyst Abdullahi Zurmi, a political analyst, maintained that “Obasanjo is a man with sound understanding of Nigeria, Nigerians and the entire system. Therefore, if this man who is widely respected in the political permutations of Africa, raises such an alarm, it is something that should not be taken lightly. “Some would readily call him an alarmist. But, anybody with knowledge of the workings of the political class, would easily adduce that there is so much truth in his assertions. “Nigerians must therefore rise up and defend the country’s democracy and the processes of electing a leadership that will provide quality and effective governance. “The plot should therefore not be taken lightly. We must all stand up and defend their electoral exercise and not allow the manipulations of some minute few, have their way.” Obasanjo’s Warning Should Not Be Ignored – Psychologist Moses Joseph, Minna-based psychologist, opined: “To me, the allegations raised by the former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo or anybody, lowly or highly placed for that matter on issues as sensitive as what we are about going into, elections, should not be waved off just like that. This is because whatever the former President or any other person may have seen could be based on facts or happenings in Nigeria today, which if not cautiously addressed, will cause serious devastation. “Former President Obasanjo is not just like other common Nigerians. He successfully ending his military career as former Military Head of State and on his second coming to political limelight became the number one tenant in Aso Rock for many years as democratically elected civilian President and so, there must be an atom of truth or likelihood of truth in the alarm raised having occupied the highest position of number one seat of this country as both Military and civilian leader. “With experiences gathered over the years, Obasanjo should be able read body languages or movements in Aso Rock. Don’t forget he is already familiar with whatever goes on therein and that is why he may not be able to be specific in who is doing what that could truncate the coming election direct or indirectly from President Muhammadu Buhari himself or any of his surrogates in Aso Rock, which is found to be capable of throwing Nigeria into chaos. “Let’s look at it this way. President Buhari we all know is not the Buhari we all used to know when Nigerians from all walks of life sacrificed their Naira and Kobo to vote for in 2015 due to what we Nigerian electorates were made to understand about the immediate-past administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan, he has been devastatingly compromised in both words and actions in a number of ways. “Buhari is a trained soldier, where decrees are the order of the day instead of democracy in action and today we still have more of old soldiers constituting themselves as cabals, just as the President’s wife, Aisha Buhari, had alerted Nigerians of taking charge and deciding what goes out to who in Nigeria today. “The person, Buhari, may not be corrupt, which I also agree with. But, you as head of the current dispensation, he must take responsibilities for actions and inactions of his cronies, hit men, or whatever you chose to call them who are both guilty of corruption. “Their actions have caused more disunity than uniting the over 250 ethnic nationalities in Nigeria today. Is President Buhari still in charge of this government? The answer is NO, because, if you monitor his moves lately you discover that he is being supported both physically and mentally at campaign rallies he attends by his handlers. “We saw clearly what happened during the Delta, Edo and Kogi states campaign rallies and so you would like to ask: Who are we really campaigning for to continue in office if re-elected? “Which leader in the world will open his mouth to tell his citizens to prepare for harder times ahead when he met with the governors, instead of finding a way to avert such hardship through a more proactive and robust economic policy? “The APC by all indications may have sensed that Nigerians have lost confidence in the administration and that is why the sharing N10, 000 to a figment of Nigerian women now that the elections are few weeks away by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, while the generality of Nigerians die of hunger and deprivations… “The cabals do the thinking, take decisions and act for Buhari, hence, Obasanjo based on past experiences and intelligence gathered, knows that decisions taken within Aso Rock meant to favour the Nigerian masses in most cases, are often manipulated during implementations without the man at the helms of affairs (Buhari) knowing of it. “Obasanjo by virtue of being a two-time former Nigerian leader, is an international political figure and take it or not, could as well be diplomatically be privy to some vital information not know to me and you. “Obasanjo is still constitutionally has rights of access into Aso Rock and he still remembers the faces of who and who are occupants of the Villa and what some of them used to be during their days in military circle, shortly before they were conscripted into working as kitchen cabinet members to the President Buhari administration. “Of the four years of the APC administration, how many times has Buhari travelled abroad for medical check-ups and how many times has he travelled abroad for Nigeria’s interest? How come that the six or 10 states listed by the National Orientation Agency (NOA) as possible election crisis prone areas are states that the ruling party is desperately trying to get control of? “Is the NOA now telling us that the police and other security apparatus in this country are being overwhelmed or can no longer safeguard lives and properties of Nigerians before, during and after the elections? “Distractive occurrences since the inception of the Buhari administration are too many. First, it was the plot to control the National Assembly. When that failed, now it is to scatter the judiciary, besides other actions to distract Nigerians, while the ploy to poke holes and brand some states bad when in real sense it was as a result of negligence of a section of the country that caused the administrations’ woes. “I believe that Obasanjo may have arrived at his conclusion and fears for the coming elections and that is why the alarms should not be ignored. I strongly recommend that the fears raised should be verified.” Obasanjo Should Come Up With His Facts – NIP Chair Chief Nwawueze Johnson Uwadi, Chairman, National Interest Party (NIP), Owerri North, Imo State, said: “Chief Obasanjo is always flying the cat and is someone who usually speaks from both sides of his mouth. “Last time, he said that God would not forgive him if he should support Atiku Abubakar in his presidential ambition. Today, he has reversed himself and is campaigning for Atiku. “If he is serious in his allegation that President Muhammadu Buhari has perfected plans to rig the polls, let him come up with his facts, otherwise we should ignore him.” Ignore Obasanjo’s Warning, Pay Dearly For It – NDCP Emejuru Daniel Iwedajuru Obi, Secretary, Nigeria Democratic Congress Party (NDCP), said: “Obasanjo is an international figure and so whatever comes out of his mouth carries a lot of weight. Let us not sweep his allegation under the carpet, else, we might pay dearly for it.” Obasanjo’s Alarm Should Not Be Taken Seriously – Lawyer Bukola Onifade, an Osogbo-based lawyer, opined: “There is no cause to take any alarm serious since election has not been conducted.” He explained that the alarm raised by Obasanjo should not be taken serious because the former President has lost credibility on some of comments recently. He said: “Obasanjo does things for political reason and not as patriotic leader. He does things to favour himself and has not been straight forward. He will dance forward and move backward and most of his remarks in recent time are for selfish reasons. “This is because he parted ways with ruling APC and embraced his former party (PDP) which he tore his membership card and vowed never to support its presidential candidate, that if he did, God would not forgive him. “This time around, he is now rooting for the same man he said could not rule this country. I don’t think this is good enough and makes mockery of himself as former leader.”