Abuja – The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Prince Uche Secondus yesterday warned the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the alleged cabals in the presidency not to kill President Muhammadu Buhari with undue pressure. He also said that the visit of the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to the United States of America, has now doused the blackmail on him. Secondus, who spoke while inaugurating 27 Presidential election campaign committees at the party’s campaign office in Abuja on Friday, said that for selfish reasons the power grabbers in the ruling party are putting undue pressure on the president even as it is evident that he can no longer cope. The PDP boss said that Nigerians and international community are witnessing happenings around the President lately, adding that it’s apparent that he is tired and incapable, but they would not let him. “There is no way this president can cope given what we are witnessing and added to the incompetence in leadership Nigerians have been seeing in the last three years,” he said. Expressing fear over the position of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the forthcoming elections, Secondus said, “our fear is that the INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu lacks the will and courage to ignore the pressure from the APC to conduct free and transparent election. “But he should know that he would be held responsible for any fall-out from a rigged election. The national chairman, while congratulating the new Inspector General of Police, reiterated his earlier call on him to clear the mess left behind by his predecessor and run the Police force professionally and responsibly. Secondus also explained why the party would continue to protest the membership of Amina Zakari as a National Commissioner of INEC. “We called for her resignation from the commission but instead they appointed her as the chief collation officer, we must continue to oppose her because she is a master rigger, we have evidence of what she did in Ekiti and Osun states,” he said. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) has said that National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, has finally exposed President Muhammadu Buhari as patron of corruption and that his much-touted anti-corruption fight is just a ruse. The PPCO said that Oshiomhole, by his confession at the Edo State APC Presidential rally on Thursday, that “once you join the APC, your sins are forgiven”, has directly confirmed that the APC is a sanctuary of treasury looters and that President Buhari’s fight against corruption is mere racketeering. PPCO,  in a statement by its Director, Media and Publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan said that “with this revelation by Oshiomhole, who is also overburdened by huge corruption allegations for which he had to flee the country last year, it is now established that the APC is a party of thieves and thrives only on deception, lies and propaganda while swimming in an ocean of corruption. “The fact that President Buhari, who parades as Mr. Integrity, has not reprimanded Oshiomhole but openly relished the assertion, confirms his moral entanglement, accommodation and valid endorsement of corrupt practices by APC members and Presidency cabal. “Nigerians are all witnesses to how President Buhari became an advocate for Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje over the leaked tape, showing him allegedly collecting bribe from contractors. “They have also seen how Mr. President, even as supposed Mr. Integrity, surrounds himself with corrupt persons and how most members of his Campaign Organization, as individuals, have been indicted for corruption.”