Lagos – The outcome of the 2019 general elections will determine whether Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), will retain his position or not, Daily Independent exclusively gathered on Tuesday. Speaking to Daily Independent, a member of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) said contrary to the impression that the issue relating to Oshiomhole’s tenure had been settled, the issue “is still alive and kicking as majority of the party stakeholders believe Oshiomhole lacks the character and leadership management required to lead the party”. According to him, following appeals by President Muhammadu Buhari and other national leaders of the party, the governors, ministers and other aggrieved stakeholders decided to “let Oshiomhole be for now so that the party can focus on achieving good success in the forthcoming general elections”. The source continued: “The governors are actually waiting for the outcome of the 2019 elections, especially the presidential election. “To them, it must be victory for APC or Oshiomhole kiss his job goodbye.  Even if APC wins the presidential election and loses in many states, he may also be kicked out by the relevant stakeholders. “In Imo, the governor is supporting the Action Alliance candidate while in Ogun, the governor is supporting the candidate of another party. “While we are confident of victory, we also take into cognizance the role of these governors who, by virtue of their positions, are leaders of the party and will supply the bulk of resources to prosecute the election.” Some governors and leaders of the party had called for the resignation of the party chairman following the controversies that surrounded some of the primaries conducted by the party in preparation for the 2019 general elections. After efforts to pass a vote of no confidence in him failed, things got to a head when some of the governors opposed to Oshiomhole’s handling of the primaries petitioned the Department of State Services (DSS) who invited Oshiomhole, quizzed him, and demanded his resignation from office. It took the intervention of President Buhari for Oshiomhole to be left off the hook. Speaking after his ordeal, Oshiomhole said the DSS had no power to demand for his resignation. “I wasn’t hired by DSS and I cannot be requested by DSS to resign or to retain the job. APC is a structured party; we have organs. I know the processes and procedures,” Oshiomhole said. He added: “I believe the DSS also understand their own role in the system. It is not up to them to demand the resignation of a party chairman, whether that party chairman is that of a ruling party or the opposition.” The governors opposed to Oshiomhole include those of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari; Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun, and Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN). After efforts to pacify the aggrieved governors failed, the party later wielded the big stick by dissolving the excos in Ogun and Imo states and inaugurated a different exco that were not loyal to the affected governors. Speaking on the development, Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, said Oshiomhole’s duty as national chairman was not to win elections for the party but to make the party strong and acceptable to the electorate. He said: “Everybody deserves a right to their opinion. The position of national chairman is not to win elections. His role is to prepare the party to be good enough for people to accept it.  The people in Ogun and Imo also have a responsibility to prepare their party and campaign. So, it’s a collective effort. “The chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has performed excellently well that for once, we are having a party that has strong internal democracy, a party that ensures discipline of all members, irrespective of your position, a party that ensures equality of all members, and we are having a party that is truly progressive in nature, in deed and in actions.”