Lagos – Before now, the umbrella sporting events in the continent of Africa is known as the All-Africa Games.  But in January 2012 during the Executive Council meeting of the African Union (AU) held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia a decision was taken for the name change from All-Africa Games to African Games. Thus, the 11th edition of the Games held in Brazzaville in 2015 started under this new name, 50 years after the first edition was held in the same country in 1965. And from August 23 to September 3, 2019 the 12th African Games will take place in Casablanca and Rabat, Morocco. This will be the first time that the Games will be hosted by more than one city and it will also be the first time that the Games will be hosted by Morocco since the 1978 African Games in Algiers. Organisers of the Games, the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA) have promised to successful hold the Games this year. ANOCA President, Mustapha Berraf pledged to ensure that the Games would be staged without the problems which have plagued previous editions. Berraf, speaking following his election as head of ANOCA at an Extraordinary General Assembly, confirmed 21 sports would be competed for during the Games. The exact sports programme is not yet set in stone but Berraf said 21 would feature one less than when Brazzaville hosted the Games in 2015. Team Nigeria, who have taken part in the previous 1`0 editions, and one of the contenders in the last three editions, will have Egypt and South Africa to content with in the 21 events already confirmed for this year’s edition. And with seven months to the commencement of the Games, how prepared is Team Nigeria for Morocco 2019? Can Nigeria compete favourably well in areas considered to be her major strongholds such as Table Tennis, Wrestling, Weightlifting, Para-Powerlifting and probably track and field events? For instance in athletics, countries like Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana are fast catching up with Nigeria in the Sprints while Kenya, Ethiopia, Morocco and Tanzania are dominating the long and middle distance races. We have lost ground to these other countries. It is only in the women’s category where Blessing Okagbare can boast of a medal and not even gold, while the men’s category is a forgone conclusion. Where lies our hope? In the years past, Table tennis is no-go area for other countries when Team Nigeria athletes fly out as all the medals at stake would be won by the country. But Egypt have taken charge, sharing the medals with Nigeria and Morocco is gradually catching up. It will take extra efforts from the continent number one player, Aruna Quadri to shine at the Games. Another sport, boxing which used to fetch us gold medals in the past, has since died in the country. There was a time Nigeria will have up to five boxers in the final of major championships, but we have allowed the sport to die with corporate body, the GOtv, trying to bring back the lost glory in the sport. Swimming has the highest number of medals in any Games. And despite having several good swimming pools in the country, including Olympics size, nothing has been done to develop the sport. The country cannot even boast of a single swimmer as a potential medal athlete. Even Para-Powerlifting, where most of the country’s medals have been won in the past editions, cannot be said to be easy passage for Team Nigeria athletes any more as the North Africans are hot-contenders. Extra individual efforts by the athletes can however see the country performing above expectations and probably better than previous editions. Perhaps, the only areas where the country has comparative advantage over other countries is Weightlifting and Wrestling, but is the country prepared for the oppositions? President of the Nigeria Wrestling Federation (NWF), Daniel Igali, an ex-Olympian, has been doing his best to uplift the sport and Nigerian wrestlers. The question now is whether the country can make an impact in Morocco? “In our usual fire-brigade approach to major sporting events, I do not think that we are prepared or preparing well for the Games. “Nothing has been put in place right now from the Ministry of Sports. No one seems to be saddled with the responsibilities of taking charge of the athletes’ preparations. “We have not even identified the sports that we seem to have comparative edge over other countries; sports that can bring laurels to the country. “Until we move fast and put our acts together with the right attitude couple with determined athletes and focused officials, we might not really make an impact in Morocco”, said one of the aggrieved Ministry’s officials. Another official who pleaded anonymity said because of the nonchalant attitude of her colleagues in the Sports Ministry, coaches of some of the sports are at cross-roads on whether they will be going to the Games or not. “Some of the coaches are not in the picture of preparations for the Games because they don’t even know whether their sport will feature or not. “It is so bad that no one knows what is happening as far as preparation is concerned with few months to its commencement”, said the official. If the above assertions are anything to go by, it is important that the Sports Ministry should as a matter of urgency identify and list the sports that the country will participate at the Games on scale of priority. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT is of the view that there is no point entering for an event that the country is not sure of winning a medal. What should be paramount in the minds of the Ministry’s officials is to enter the country for events where the country has strong grips and come out with good medals. “Identifying those events is the first step and picking the best materials to win medals for the country is the second step. The Sports Ministry under Solomon Dalung should tend to do away with entering for an event that the country is not good at winning a bronze medal talk less of winning a silver or gold medal. The country should not participate on the ground of participation sake rather; the country should participate on the grounds of winning good medals at the end of the Games. This is not Olympic Games where the main objective is to participate and not win. At Morocco 2019, the country should be able to come out and prove once and for all that the feat achieved at the 2003 edition when Nigeria hosted in Abuja was not a fluke. Since the 2003 edition of the Games held in Abuja, Nigeria, where Team Nigeria emerged as the overall champions, the country’s impact has not been really felt at the Games ever since. Team Nigeria placed first with 85 gold, 90 silver and 65 bronze to chalk up 240 medals ahead of Egypt which placed second with 80 gold, 62 silver, 72 bronze to garner 214 medals while South Africa came a distance third position with 63 gold, 59 silver and 49 bronze to get 171 medals overall. However, the country failed to repeat that feat four years later when the Games was held in Algiers, Algeria in 2007. Team Nigeria placed a disappointing fourth position at the end of the Games with 50 gold, 55 silver and 54 bronze to garner 159 medals.