Uche Ejesieme, Public Relations Officer, Tincan Island Command of the Nigeria Customs Service(NCS) has bare his mind about the activities of economic saboteurs-cum smugglers,and what the laws say about them. In this interview with ANDREW UTULU, the NCS image maker for Tincan Island spoke on how smuggling is a universal challenge that needs to be tackled headlong. Excerpts: Why do you think that smuggling persist in the Country irrespective of massive and unrelenting war against smugglers and their activities by the Nigeria Customs Service?. First and foremost, I will like to commend you for using that word unrelenting to qualify what you think the Service has been doing over the years. The truth about the matter is that smuggling just like scavenging is a universal challenge. It is a universal phenomenon. It is actually not only peculiar to Africa in general or Nigeria in particular. But most importantly and fundamentally, what we need to address at this juncture is critical questions pertaining to first, why do people engage in smuggling? I will say that the major reason why people smuggle is the penchant for getting rich quick. If you like, put it, get rich quick syndrome, and this has become a big challenge and coming with adverse consequences on the Nation’s economy. This is why over the years, like you mentioned; the Service has been very unrelenting. I can assure you that the Service as it is, we are actually on daily basis demonstrating capabilities, and competence to deal with this menace. Do not forget that these smugglers  can be very daring; and we are not letting the Country and the economy down. An eloquent testimony to this our resolve is the quantum of seizures the Service made last year, as was widely reported by the National Customs Public Relations Officer, Deputy Comptroller Jerry Attah, in his last press briefing. You will recall he told you that suppression of smuggling remains the most challenging aspect of Customs functions as anti-smuggling operations are seen differently by different people. He also noted regrettably, that so many people still see smuggling as business not crime. He also pointed out   that smuggling is not just a crime, but the mother of many crimes and criminalities as violent crimes are perpetrated with dangerous items such as arms and drugs smuggled into the country. Apart from the negative impact on the national economy, smuggling has devastating effects on security and well-being of any nation. He also pointed out that the Service strive to fight smuggling , and that we are often confronted with non-cooperative attitude of some border dwellers, willingness of some Nigerians to help the smugglers mob Customs operatives, lack of proper implementation of the ECOWAS protocol on transit by our neighbours and the use of motorcycles and animals to smuggle through difficult terrains. If you go across the Commands, you will see that all the warehouses are full to the brim. That is a clear indication that the Service is not relenting like you rightly pointed out. As far as we are concerned, part of our statutory functions is that of suppressing smuggling apart from collecting and accounting for revenue to the Federal Government, suppression of smuggling is part of the core functions of the Service, and I am sure you know that the present administration, ably led by Col. Hammed Ali(rtd), the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service and his able management team, are not relenting on this statutory mandate given to Customs. Like I said earlier, this can be clearly seen from the quantity and quality of seizures, which are made and continued to be made. The Service will continue to demonstrate as I told you; we will continue to shoulder that burden, because we have the wherewithal, we have the capacity, we have the competence, we have the training, we have the motivation above all. So, we have no reason not to put in our best. I can assure you that this year is not going to be a tea party for smugglers. We will continue to sensitize, we will continue to educate them on the dangers of smuggling particularly on their health and even on the health of the nation’s economy generally.  We will not fail. Stakeholders’ engagement is also part of our mandates as enshrine in the World Customs Organisation (WCO) mandate blocks and the Service and the Commands are deploying it. We will not be tired. We will continue to sensitize the people to let them know the dangers that are inherent in smuggling, and I am happy with what we are doing, despite the fact that some people are still recalcitrant, smugglers are still adamant. I can assure you that we are still on top of the game. Are you saying the Commands have recorded huge success? Yes. We have started decimating degrading these people to the extent that the way and manner they smuggle before now, is no longer the same today. The momentum is reducing as far as I am concern, if they fail to reduce; we continue to re-jig the system, the strategy, to make sure that we drag them to their knee. Mind you, we are not claiming that we have all the answers; this is because no country in the world has been able to completely eradicate smuggling. What the Service is trying to do is to eradicate it to the barest minimum, and God being with us like He has always be, we are going to achieve it better than we did last year. Your Command made massive seizures last year; can you tell us some of the spectacular seizures? Well, if not for the fact that this interview is impromptu, I am supposed to avail you with comprehensive list of all the seizures, some of the spectacular seizures the rightly come to mind is the issue of Tramadol and other unregulated pharmaceuticals, which are actually posing a serious threat to the society, particularly to the youth, going by the rate with which some of these substances are abused. Last year, I know that a lot were seized. Recall that the DCG in-charge of Enforcement, Investigation and Inspection, DCG Chidi came down to the Command, in Lagos, from Abuja. I know that we had 10 containers of Tramadol and 10 containers of other items that were seized. There were other seizures. I don’t have the list with me now, but I can assure you that we will make it very comprehensively available to you, because we don’t embark on guess work. Much have been said about our porous borders being responsible for increased  smuggling activities as there are so many illegal and unapproved smuggling routes across the Country? Well, often times, people referred to that. It has almost become a cliché when you see people referred to our borders as being porous. In my estimation, I do not a agree that our borders are as porous as people are insinuating. If our borders should be as porous as people are insinuating, that means, nobody can afford to sleep with his two eyes closed in this country. We know that there are massive border lines/land mass cutting across all the states in the Country, but that does not make them porous because what Customs Enforcement Units are doing is to ensure that all the zones are well covered to the best of their ability, in making sure that some of these illegal routes are blocked and monitored. Some of these flash points are identified and made sure that smugglers and smuggling activities don’t take place in those areas at least to the best of their ability and that again accounted for the quality and quantum of seizures made. So, I don’t completely subscribe to that insinuation that our borders are very porous. When I hear people use that word interchangeably, in my personal opinion, I don’t completely agree that the borders are porous. But you must agree with me  that there are some illegal routes which smugglers use before some of them encounter men of Federal Operations Unit in the cities and Towns? Yes, that is correct. What do you think should be done? And that again brings me to issue of collaboration and synergy, particularly with stakeholders and patriotic Nigerians. There is no country in the world whose security agencies can work effectively without intelligence report from some patriotic citizens of that Country contributes. Fighting smuggling should be a thing of collective responsibility of all Nigerians because our ultimate aim is to ensure that our country does not become a dumping ground for all manners of junks, thereby, creating issues of unemployment for our people. It should be a collective war. Once we receive intelligence about some of these areas you mentioned, I can assure you that the Customs will ensure that the identities of our informants are kept, held with utmost secrecy. Once we get intelligence with anything happening, we can assure you that the Enforcement Unit armed to the teeth is around with operational vehicles, enough arms and trained personnel to deal with the menace. So, we use this opportunity now to call on the members of the public to join hands with the Service to ensure that we really decimate and degrade there economic saboteurs because their activities, cumulatively are causing a lot of horror to our economy. This the Service will not allow. We call on all Nigerians to support the Service in this war against smuggling. If we get their cooperation, I can assure you, we are going to redouble our effects this year and the years ahead to ensure that such crimes are nip in the bud. What then is your message to smugglers? Well, my message to smugglers is to change. There is need for attitudinal change, and that also brings us to calling on the National Orientation Agency to also use jingles and other forms to sensitise Nigerians on the dangers of smuggling. So, we will continue to sensitize them. We are making frantic effort to ensure that we organise seminars, symposiums, workshops where we intend to talk to people about adhering to fiscal policies of the Federal Government, and also talk to them about smuggling and dangers associated with it, and what they should do to protect our territorial integrity, by ensuring that their areas are not used for smuggling because the dangers inherent are actually enormous. Uche Ejesieme, The Public Relations Officer, Tincan Island Command of the Nigeria Customs Service(NCS) has bare his mind about the activities of economic saboteurs-cum smugglers,and what the laws say about them. In this interview with ANDREW UTULU, the NCS image maker for Tincan Island spoke on how smuggling is a universal challenge that needs to be tackled headlong. Excerpts: Why do you think that smuggling persist in the Country irrespective of massive and unrelenting war against smugglers and their activities by the Nigeria Customs Service?. First and foremost, I will like to commend you for using that word unrelenting to qualify what you think the Service has been doing over the years. The truth about the matter is that smuggling just like scavenging is a universal challenge. It is a universal phenomenon. It is actually not only peculiar to Africa in general or Nigeria in particular. But most importantly and fundamentally, what we need to address at this juncture is critical questions pertaining to first, why do people engage in smuggling? I will say that the major reason why people smuggle is the penchant for getting rich quick. If you like, put it, get rich quick syndrome, and this has become a big challenge and coming with adverse consequences on the Nation’s economy. This is why over the years, like you mentioned; the Service has been very unrelenting. I can assure you that the Service as it is, we are actually on daily basis demonstrating capabilities, and competence to deal with this menace. Do not forget that these smugglers  can be very daring; and we are not letting the Country and the economy down. An eloquent testimony to this our resolve is the quantum of seizures the Service made last year, as was widely reported by the National Customs Public Relations Officer, Deputy Comptroller Jerry Attah, in his last press briefing. You will recall he told you that suppression of smuggling remains the most challenging aspect of Customs functions as anti-smuggling operations are seen differently by different people. He also noted regrettably, that so many people still see smuggling as business not crime. He also pointed out   that smuggling is not just a crime, but the mother of many crimes and criminalities as violent crimes are perpetrated with dangerous items such as arms and drugs smuggled into the country. Apart from the negative impact on the national economy, smuggling has devastating effects on security and well-being of any nation. He also pointed out that the Service strive to fight smuggling , and that we are often confronted with non-cooperative attitude of some border dwellers, willingness of some Nigerians to help the smugglers mob Customs operatives, lack of proper implementation of the ECOWAS protocol on transit by our neighbours and the use of motorcycles and animals to smuggle through difficult terrains. If you go across the Commands, you will see that all the warehouses are full to the brim. That is a clear indication that the Service is not relenting like you rightly pointed out. As far as we are concerned, part of our statutory functions is that of suppressing smuggling apart from collecting and accounting for revenue to the Federal Government, suppression of smuggling is part of the core functions of the Service, and I am sure you know that the present administration, ably led by Col. Hammed Ali(rtd), the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service and his able management team, are not relenting on this statutory mandate given to Customs. Like I said earlier, this can be clearly seen from the quantity and quality of seizures, which are made and continued to be made. The Service will continue to demonstrate as I told you; we will continue to shoulder that burden, because we have the wherewithal, we have the capacity, we have the competence, we have the training, we have the motivation above all. So, we have no reason not to put in our best. I can assure you that this year is not going to be a tea party for smugglers. We will continue to sensitize, we will continue to educate them on the dangers of smuggling particularly on their health and even on the health of the nation’s economy generally.  We will not fail. Stakeholders’ engagement is also part of our mandates as enshrine in the World Customs Organisation (WCO) mandate blocks and the Service and the Commands are deploying it. We will not be tired. We will continue to sensitize the people to let them know the dangers that are inherent in smuggling, and I am happy with what we are doing, despite the fact that some people are still recalcitrant, smugglers are still adamant. I can assure you that we are still on top of the game. Are you saying the Commands have recorded huge success? Yes. We have started decimating degrading these people to the extent that the way and manner they smuggle before now, is no longer the same today. The momentum is reducing as far as I am concern, if they fail to reduce; we continue to re-jig the system, the strategy, to make sure that we drag them to their knee. Mind you, we are not claiming that we have all the answers; this is because no country in the world has been able to completely eradicate smuggling. What the Service is trying to do is to eradicate it to the barest minimum, and God being with us like He has always be, we are going to achieve it better than we did last year. Your Command made massive seizures last year; can you tell us some of the spectacular seizures? Well, if not for the fact that this interview is impromptu, I am supposed to avail you with comprehensive list of all the seizures, some of the spectacular seizures the rightly come to mind is the issue of Tramadol and other unregulated pharmaceuticals, which are actually posing a serious threat to the society, particularly to the youth, going by the rate with which some of these substances are abused. Last year, I know that a lot were seized. Recall that the DCG in-charge of Enforcement, Investigation and Inspection, DCG Chidi came down to the Command, in Lagos, from Abuja. I know that we had 10 containers of Tramadol and 10 containers of other items that were seized. There were other seizures. I don’t have the list with me now, but I can assure you that we will make it very comprehensively available to you, because we don’t embark on guess work. Much have been said about our porous borders being responsible for increased  smuggling activities as there are so many illegal and unapproved smuggling routes across the Country? Well, often times, people referred to that. It has almost become a cliché when you see people referred to our borders as being porous. In my estimation, I do not a agree that our borders are as porous as people are insinuating. If our borders should be as porous as people are insinuating, that means, nobody can afford to sleep with his two eyes closed in this country. We know that there are massive border lines/land mass cutting across all the states in the Country, but that does not make them porous because what Customs Enforcement Units are doing is to ensure that all the zones are well covered to the best of their ability, in making sure that some of these illegal routes are blocked and monitored. Some of these flash points are identified and made sure that smugglers and smuggling activities don’t take place in those areas at least to the best of their ability and that again accounted for the quality and quantum of seizures made. So, I don’t completely subscribe to that insinuation that our borders are very porous. When I hear people use that word interchangeably, in my personal opinion, I don’t completely agree that the borders are porous. But you must agree with me  that there are some illegal routes which smugglers use before some of them encounter men of Federal Operations Unit in the cities and Towns? Yes, that is correct. What do you think should be done? And that again brings me to issue of collaboration and synergy, particularly with stakeholders and patriotic Nigerians. There is no country in the world whose security agencies can work effectively without intelligence report from some patriotic citizens of that Country contributes. Fighting smuggling should be a thing of collective responsibility of all Nigerians because our ultimate aim is to ensure that our country does not become a dumping ground for all manners of junks, thereby, creating issues of unemployment for our people. It should be a collective war. Once we receive intelligence about some of these areas you mentioned, I can assure you that the Customs will ensure that the identities of our informants are kept, held with utmost secrecy. Once we get intelligence with anything happening, we can assure you that the Enforcement Unit armed to the teeth is around with operational vehicles, enough arms and trained personnel to deal with the menace. So, we use this opportunity now to call on the members of the public to join hands with the Service to ensure that we really decimate and degrade there economic saboteurs because their activities, cumulatively are causing a lot of horror to our economy. This the Service will not allow. We call on all Nigerians to support the Service in this war against smuggling. If we get their cooperation, I can assure you, we are going to redouble our effects this year and the years ahead to ensure that such crimes are nip in the bud. What then is your message to smugglers? Well, my message to smugglers is to change. There is need for attitudinal change, and that also brings us to calling on the National Orientation Agency to also use jingles and other forms to sensitise Nigerians on the dangers of smuggling. So, we will continue to sensitize them. We are making frantic effort to ensure that we organise seminars, symposiums, workshops where we intend to talk to people about adhering to fiscal policies of the Federal Government, and also talk to them about smuggling and dangers associated with it, and what they should do to protect our territorial integrity, by ensuring that their areas are not used for smuggling because the dangers inherent are actually enormous.