Chief Olabode George, a former Deputy National Chairman  of  the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in this  interview session with journalists in Lagos, speaks on the  readiness of the party to battle the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming election. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What is your reaction to the reports of alleged infighting in your party in Lagos? Contrary to the misleading opinion in some sections of the media, our party is not disrupted by any infighting. We are woven in a united vision, summed up in a thoughtful unanimity of purpose. We are  emboldened by a well articulated truth and summative defining purpose and shared beliefs. We  might have had their differences in the past during the strongly contested gubernatorial primary, but that was in the past, the contest had been won and lost we have moved forward. We are  one, indivisible family. There is no rancour in our midst. There is no bitterness or hatred. We are no longer contesting anything with ourselves. Jimi Agbaje is our unifying gubernatorial candidate. We support him wholeheartedly and with total commitment. The enemy was out there and the contest was now against the monstrous, dictatorial, reckless, godfatherism that has held the state hostage for the past 20 years. It was as show of shame during the All Progressives Congress (APC) flag off yesterday where five persons were killed. PDP has come out on a mission of rescue and salvage. Lagos must be redeemed and unchained from the manacles of APC and the madness would not continue because Lagos needed a real, progressive fundamental change. We are moving forward with a vow to bring meaningful enlightenment into the lives of fellow Lagosians. No more burdensome taxation. No more brazen gutting of our treasury. No more criminal cronyism that has reduced our state to serfdom and helplessness. What are you going to do differently to assure Lagosians that you will do something differently when you come to power because Lagos residents are afraid of reprisal attack in respect of what happened recently at the campaign flag off of APC? We are Lagosians, it is mandatory on us to keep peace in Lagos. Our candidate, Jimi Agbaje and his deputy Busari are indigenes of Lagos State.  I went to my local government the other day and all the young people there have no jobs, I wondered what was going on? The white will tell you, you don’t need a second chance to make a first impression. We saw their first outing yesterday, it was very bad. You have heard from our candidate. He comes from a very good home, why will he want to create mayhem in his own home? Lagosians are peace loving people even before I was born, that has been the welcome attitude of indigenes of Lagos State. Lagos is a commercial nerve centre in West Africa. Why will you not train these young people, organise skill acquisition programme instead of training them only for thuggery. It was indeed a show of shame yesterday, the governor was speaking and MC Oluomo and his people unleashed havoc. Instead of showing such rascality, political thuggery and violence, they are going to make sure that skill acquisition will be a number one issue to get the boys back to work, whether you want to be a mechanic, tailor, you just abandoned these boys and you go and sleep in your kingdom. I am promising you that if you give Jimi and our party the mandate, Lagos will be the real Lagos. Lagos we knew as we were growing up, they were the best in education, skill acquisition. If you have Lagos where everyone wakes up in the morning, they have nowhere to go, of course you will have problem in your hands. We will teach them how to fish and not give them fish, so that they can feed themselves. Lagos State has been ruled by one party in the past 20 years, please can you tell us what you are going to do differently if you take over the mantle of leadership in 2019? The first that that we need to bring to governance in Lagos is character of leadership. You can have the best blue print in leadership but if you do not have character then it is a problem. There two kinds of politician, those that seek power for service and those that seek power for self. What you have in Lagos today are those that have been in power for 20 years that have power for self. What they are running in Lagos is an oligarchy. You can compare two different governments, you can compare the Jakande era and you will see that it was power for service. You had education addressed, health, works, and housing. You had so much in four years. In 20 years whatever these people have put in place was only to benefit them. We have gone back, our education is worse; we have a Lagos today where in the last 20 years only 20 percent of our children scored five credits, plus English and Mathematics. I can go on, so if you ask me, what we are bringing, I will say, we will first bring character leadership in Lagos that will be people’s Lagos rather than one man’s Lagos. It will be about the people rather one man or a few people. We will address education, health; provide a future for our young ones. Today it is a hopeless future for them, they don’t see any future for themselves and these are things we must address. If look back at what Jakande has done, that in 30 years after, you can talk of Jakande legacy.  20 years from now, I wonder what legacy we will have. There is nothing that I can think and say that they have as a legacy that they can be proud of in 20 years from now. Over the years you have always campaigned like this and PDP has not been able to win Lagos State. You have complained about your billboards pulled down by the ruling party, what can you do to match the ruling government so that all these issues will be nipped in the board and the mandate will go out from APC this time around? I hope you can see that they tried to intimidate us, initially when we put up our boards, I think they were intimidated by the quality of our own boards because what they brought out was some kind of cheap things compared with the money that they had budgeted for them, and it was obvious after that they wanted to silence us and you see that we refused to be silenced. The more they removed the boards, the more we replaced them to show that we were ready to match them in any way they had planned. I think they had accepted that those boards are there to stay. In the same way we will go for elections to show them that we are going to match them. We have every intention that our votes are going to count this time. We have learnt our lessons from the past. We are prepared and we believe that Lagosians are on our side, we have the goodwill, our job is to ensure that the votes count. We want to assure  Lagosians that we are putting a lot of things in place to make sure that the votes count. When we start and the debates start, the character of the candidates will be seen. It is true there are photographs, these days photos do lie. We also have a woman as a running mate. It goes to show you that we have respect for the woman gender. In APC you have two men who are running, handpicked by the emperor. The Sanwo-Olus lived in Lagos for years but they are from Ijebu-Ife, the deputy, Hamzat, his father is from Ewekoro. The disrespect for the indigenes is monumental. All the senatorial candidates except, Mrs Tinubu are from Ogun State. Our party is not a one man party; it is a party of the people.