Abuja – Embattled Senator Dino Melaye representing Kogi West Senatorial District has finally surrendered himself to the police after eight days in hiding. The Senator was said to have been persuaded by his colleagues who stormed his house in Abuja on Friday in their number in solidarity to pacify him to make the move and end the siege. It was gathered that the lawmakers arrived the house and communicated with him to come out with assurance that he is in safe hand of his colleagues from the National Assembly.  It took the senator some minutes before coming out until he was convinced that they were actually his colleagues . He was alleged to have collapsed on the floor as soon as he came out to meet them in the compound. Dino was later taken to Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris at the Force Headquarters but the IGP was said to have been in a meeting with the President  Muhammadu  Buhari in the Villa. The situation later forced the senators and members of House of Representatives to take him to the office of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Also he was said to have collapsed again at the SARS office and was rushed to the emergency section of the Police clinic. With this development, Melaye, who has engaged the police in hide and seek for eight days, may be detained at the facility before being taken to Lokoja to face his trial for culpable homicide and masterminding the shooting of a police officer on July 19, 2018 in Kogi State. Senator Murray Bruce was among the senators who accompanied him to the SARS office. Meanwhile, police on Friday in a statement sent to Saturday INDEPENDENT, said Melaye was declared wanted for criminal conspiracy and attempted culpable homicide. The Force said Melaye, in the company of others allegedly attacked police personnel, shot and wounded Sgt Danjuma Saliu on stop and serach duty along Ayetoro Gbede, Mopa Road, Kogi State. According to the police, the officer is yet to recover from the gunshot injury. It claimed that when the police arrived his residence to effect his arrest, Melaye locked up himself in the building to evade arrest.