Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari rounded off the year 2018 with words of advice to Nigerians regarding the forthcoming polls in 2019, saying irrespective of trepidations and mortal fear held by many citizens, the election need not be a do or die affair. Buhari, however, cautioned the opposition whom he believes were peddling falsehood to gain political advantage over the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), saying they were fighting a battle which they will ultimately lose. The president said all these in his New Year message to Nigerians where he used the opportunity to reiterate his resolve to conduct elections that would be adjudged free, fair and credible. “As I welcome you into 2019, I also reiterate my many promises and declarations that the general elections will be free, fair and credible. “Elections need not be do or die affair, and we should not approach that eventuality in a democracy with trepidation and mortal fear. Happily, a large number of presidential candidates have committed to peace, and peace we shall have. “Those who continue to trumpet falsehood and negativity are on their own, fighting a losing battle. The greater number of Nigerians are trusting and believing that we shall deliver on our promises for a level playing field at the polls, and that is what we shall do. “Nigerians desire peace, security, prosperity, inclusiveness and infrastructural development, a nation they can be proud of, a country that can hold its own among the nations”, the president said. Buhari was also upbeat about his prospects for the new year, saying misgivings about his anti-graft war would not deter him, rather his administration was resolved to bequeath a nation where the resources will be used for the general good. He admitted that Nigeria has got its fair share of challenges ranging from insecurity, economy to politics but that they will be combated squarely. “That is the journey we have embarked on since we came onboard in 2015, and we are not distracted as we move on. We are resolved to build a country in which the resources are utilised for the benefit of the largest number, and not appropriated by a privileged few in their never ending quest to satisfy their greed. We are on this mission together, and I assure you of a firm commitment to the ideals of a safe, secure, fair, just and prosperous country. “We have had our challenges: security, economic, political, social. But we are resolved to combat and overcome them all. “I can assure you all that we are making steady and sustainable progress in all areas of national life. Those who are unbiased can see and appreciate the progress the country has made since 2015. “A new year provides opportunity for renewal of commitment, and I invite you to rededicate yourselves to the vision of a Nigeria that works for all. “We are moving from potentials to actualisation, and it’s a task to be accomplished by us all: man, woman, young, old, military, civilian, all Nigerians. Please come along, as we journey to the land of our dreams,” Buhari reiterated in his message to Nigerians. Speaking further, he said, “It is my utmost pleasure to rejoice with all Nigerians as we enter the year 2019, which will be a very significant one for our country. “At the turn of every year, we often use the opportunity to look back at the past and forward to the future. To review the outgoing year, its high and low points, successes and failures, and be fully thankful to God. “We Nigerians are a religious people, and we believe that God reigns and rules in the affairs of men. A time like this offers precious opportunity for thanksgiving, stock taking and reflection on goals and targets set for the receding year, and how much was accomplished. The ones not done can then be rolled over into a new year. “The dawn of a new year is also a time to look forward. To consider new prospects, unfold our plans, and prepare for landmark dates and events. “2019 will be an election year for us. In about two months, the polls are due, and we will elect leaders into various offices, at national and state levels. “I appreciate your support and collaboration in previous years, and look forward to same in 2019, and beyond, as I hope you will renew the mandate you overwhelmingly gave us in 2015, for another term. “We are motivated by nothing other than service to motherland, and service without selfishness or personal interest, Happy new year”. Wise Voting Decisions Will Save, Restore Nigeria
– Secondus Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); its National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, and the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, have expressed optimism that there would be a brighter future for the country if the nation took the right step and made the right decision in 2019. They expressed their opinions in their New Year messages on Monday in Abuja. While Secondus said wise voting decisions would save and restore the nation, the party said there was a better future. Atiku said he was convinced that in 2019, if the nation charted a new course, it could become the world’s headquarters for hope and extreme devotion to the cause of lifting people out of poverty. Secondus, who charged Nigerians to see 2019 as the restoration year for the country, pointed out that the year was critical in the life of the nation as it would be a turning point in the emerging political evolution. In his New Year message, the PDP boss, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi, said: “The general election in the country this year 2019 provides ample opportunity for the country to be rescued and restored as the biggest black nation in the world both economically and politically. “This year provides us the ground to save our democracy and the country from the comatose state the misrule and inept administration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has placed it. “2019 provides the way for us as a country to correct the mistake we made in 2015 which has dangerously brought the country to this sorry state. Good decision by the voters this year is all that is needed to recover the country from the hands of the destroyers. “Our nation did not bargain for this quantum of avoidable bloodletting and loss of human lives when it voted in 2015. “Nigerians did not vote in 2015 for their economy which was the best in the continent to be so damaged to merit her the poor capital of the world. “It was not the desire of Nigerians in 2015 when they voted to have such frightening unemployment record as confirmed by the National Bureau of Statistics after nearly four years. “The growing insecurity in the land, the senseless killings across the country, the endless mauling down of our troops by terrorists and the apparent helpless and insensitive disposition of the government all raise a lot of concerns and call for real change in our polity.” Secondus, however, warned that it would be a huge disservice to the nation and invitation to anarchy if the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) failed to give the country free, fair, and credible election this year to enable the will of the people to prevail on who governed them. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO), on its part, urged Nigerians to step into 2019 with unwavering optimism, faith, and hope of a new era of peace, national cohesion, and economic prosperity under a new president, Atiku Abubakar, who would be elected on February 16, 2019. The PPCO congratulated Nigerians for their resilience in surviving the almost four years of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government which they described as incompetent, anti-people, and harsh and urged them to use the new year to pray against all negative projections by President Muhammadu Buhari who had declared more hardship for Nigerians this year. The PPCO, in a statement by its Director, Media and Publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “Nigerians must therefore avert such negative projections by voting out President Buhari and replacing him with their choice leader, the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku, who has already articulated a practical blueprint to ease their burden and pain by engendering rapid economic recovery, national cohesion and realistic solutions to our myriad of challenges. “2019, as an election year, offers our citizens their much-desired opportunity to end the trajectory of economic hardship, hunger and starvation, strange diseases, untimely deaths, collapsed infrastructure, humongous unemployment figures, wanton killings and all the evils that have bedevilled our nation in almost four years of the President Buhari’s corrupt and incompetent administration. “Our citizens have made immeasurable sacrifices to keep the nation going in the face of very harsh policies, lies and fake promises of the Buhari administration. They now eagerly long for a breath of fresh air under Atiku as their next president.” Atiku, in his New Year message, said: “In 2018, we became the world’s headquarters for extreme poverty; however, I am convinced that in 2019, if we chart a new course, we can become the world headquarters for hope and extreme devotion to the cause of lifting our people out of poverty. “2019 is as yet a blank page. As a nation, we must not settle for whatever it brings. Rather, we must take collective action, through our choices, in making it a year where we revive national hope, with visionary leadership that sees our economy and institutions working again as they did in our golden era. “We can chart a new course and open a new chapter that sees every Nigerian living in peace and prosperity with their neighbour. It can be the year when our youths finally get a job instead of being unfairly tagged as lazy. With purposeful leadership, it can also be the year when we put an end to terrorism and usher in a golden age of peace. “But it will not just happen by itself. We have to make changes from the top all the way to the bottom. We already have the vision, the vision of a nation that is a beacon of hope for the black race and the world at large, what we lack and what 2019 can provide, is the leadership that has the capacity to translate that vision into reality. “In 2019, Nigerians need a leadership that is 100% for 100% of Nigerians, 100% of the time. We have seen where division and sectionalism has led us to. Now let us try unity and patriotism.”