Temidayo Akinsuyi, Joy Anigbogu, Paschal Njoku, Samuel Ogidan, Igoniko Oduma, Chijioke Agwu, Eche Nwaobos, Ahmad Tijjani Abdul,  Mohammed Abubakar, Nsa Gill and Sule Tahir Lagos / Abuja / Yenagoa / Abakaliki / Nnewi / Kano / Damaturu / Calabar / Dutse – The National Judicial Council (NJC) on Tuesday directed the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, and the acting CJN, Justice Tanko Mohammad, to respond to various petitions written against them within seven days. A source close to NJC told Daily Independent on Tuesday that with the flurry of petitions against Onnoghen and Mohammad it will be difficult for them to remain in office. Before deliberations, Onnoghen and Muhammad recused themselves from the meeting. Consequently, the NJC elected Justice Umaru Abdullahi, former president of the Court of Appeal, as interim chairman to preside over the meeting. The decision by NJC was taken at an emergency meeting held in Abuja in respect of the crisis rocking the judiciary following the removal of Justice Onnoghen by President Muhammadu Buhari last Friday. Rising from the meeting, the NJC said it considered four petitions filed at its secretariat against some judicial officers. The petitions include petition against Justice W.S.N. Onnoghen by Zikhrillahi Ibrahim of Resource Centre for Human Rights & Civil Education; petition against Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad by Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative; petition against Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad by Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), and petition against Hon. Danladi Yakubu Umar, Chairman, Code of Conduct Tribunal by Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative. The petition against Danladi Yakubu Umar was referred to the Federal Judicial Service Commission (FJSC) which the NJC said “is the appropriate constitutional body empowered to deal with it”. “In line with its procedure, Council also forwarded the petitions against Hon. Justices W.S.N. Onnoghen, GCON, and I. T. Muhammad, CFR, to them for their responses. “In view of the gravity of the matters involved, Council abridged the usual response period from fourteen to seven working days for the Hon. Justices to respond,” the NJC said. Meanwhile, a statement by Soji Oye, Director, Information, NJC, indicated that the NJC will reconvene on the February 11, 2019. Partial Compliance Greets NBA’s Court Boycott Order Following the suspension of Justice Onnoghen by President Muhammadu Buhari on January 25, the National Executive Council of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) on Monday instructed lawyers in the country to boycott all courts for two days, starting Tuesday. However, compliance with the NBA directive by lawyers across the country ranged from total to partial and even non-compliance. Daily Independent reports that while compliance with the directive was near total in most Southern states, apart from Lagos, the directive recorded virtual non-compliance in most Northern states. In Bayelsa, members of the Yenagoa and Sagbama branches of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) stayed away from the law courts. Checks at some courts in the state indicate that the lawyers complied with the directive, and this made it impossible for judges to entertain cases before them. NBA officials were seen monitoring the extent of the compliance at the state High Courts as well as the Federal High Court in the Onopa area of Yenagoa. Litigants whose cases were slated for hearing on Tuesday were disappointed to hear of the boycott and turned back from the courts. Clement Buruboyefe, Chairman, Yenagoa branch of the NBA, described the level of compliance by the lawyers as “100 percent.” The Ebonyi State branch of NBA shut down operations at all courts in the state. Addressing a press conference in Abakaliki, Festus Nweke, NBA Chairman, Abakaliki branch, who described the president’s action against Onnoghen as full-blown invitation to anarchy, reiterated that the Federal Government was not the appropriate body to discipline a judicial officer in the country. “The situation is that lawyers have boycotted court sittings in the state for two days as a way of registering our reservations toward the action taken against the CJN,” Nweke said. “None of the court is opened. The action of the Federal Government is an aberration of the law. The Federal Government is not the appropriate body to punish a judicial officer. “It is an invitation to full-blown anarchy if we allow it to stand. There are established rules. Let the Federal Government follow the established due process.” All courts in Anambra State were also shut down on Tuesday in compliance with the NBA directive. Monitoring the progress of the boycott, Daily Independent observed that many litigants and some lawyers, who are not aware of the directives, were disappointed when they came to court and saw that neither judges nor lawyers showed up, as every court – from the High to the Magistrates and Customary courts – were deserted. At the courts in Awka, the state capital, Onitsha, Nnewi, Ekwuluobia, Otuocha, Ogbaru, Ihiala and other courts located in the rural areas, the story was the same. Litigants, who spoke to newsmen, rued the development and noted that most of them were not aware of the action. They, therefore, appealed to the lawyers to consider their plight, especially that of those in the prisons, whose matters were scheduled to come up these two days. Ozone Ben Erinne, NBA chairman, Onitsha branch, who was sighted at the premises of the High Court, Onitsha, told Daily Independent that the boycott recorded a big success in the state, as all the courts complied with the national NBA directive. He noted that the only option that will be generally accepted by lawyers in the country will be a total and unconditional reversal of the president’s action, expressing optimism that National Judicial Council (NJC) will do the needful. For the most part of Kaduna, compliance with the directive of the NBA was successful as only few lawyers were in court to pursue their matters. Hamza Garba, one of the lawyers, said he was in court to pursue his case, because the defendant came from Katsina and the judge had given a clear date for the conclusion of the trial. Garba said he had no problem observing the NBA directive. He, therefore, urged the NBA to understand that the interest he represented was for a third party, which was paramount. The NBA, Kano branch, distanced itself from the directive of the National Executive of the association on the two-day court boycott. Mujtaba Adamu Ameen, the branch secretary, in a statement directed its members to go about their legal activities without fear or favour. The statement further advised members to be responsible enough to do the best for the country, families, clients and the system as a whole. “We should please endeavour to preserve the nobility of our highly respected profession by being fair to the society and fair to our children yet unborn,” the statement read in part. Investigation conducted by Daily Independent in Kano on Tuesday disclosed that most courts – from the Sharia courts, magistrate courts, State and Federal High Courts – opened for normal business, with lawyers in attendance. Like its Kano counter-part, the NBA, Damaturu, Yobe State branch also called on members to shun any boycott directive. In Calabar, Cross River, there was full compliance. Lawyers from the three branches of the NBA in the state comprising Calabar, Ikom and Ogoja, converged on the State High Court complex on Mary Slessor Avenue on Tuesday before proceeding to the Governor’s Office on Diamond Hill to present a six-point demand to the governor for onward transmission to the president. The placard-carrying lawyers defied the rains in their demonstration. Some of the placards bore inscriptions such as ‘No to Tyranny’; ‘Probe CCT Chairman’; ‘Probe Tanko’; ‘We are not in a military era’; ‘Let rule of law prevail’; ‘NBA Calabar says no to Executive Rascality’; ‘Nigeria not a Banana Republic’; ‘Justice Onnoghen we know’, Who is Tanko?’ Julius Idiege, Vice Chairman of NBA, Calabar branch, read the communiqué before it was presented to Prof. Ivara Esu, the state Deputy Governor, who received it on behalf of Prof Ben Ayade, the state Governor. In Lagos, a few lawyers, who had cases fixed for hearing on Tuesday, appeared in the various courts in Lagos in defiance of the NBA directive. Our correspondent who went round some of the courts in Lagos, including the Igbosere High Courts and Magistrates’ Courts, to monitor the situation, reports that lawyers were in court, the courts sat, and proceedings went on. However, the Court of Appeal, Lagos did not sit because, according to the workers, the court was observing its conference week. Jigawa State branch of the NBA excused itself from the two-day court boycott as directed by the NBA National Executive, claiming ignorance of such directive. Again, Onnoghen Drags FG To Appeal Court Meanwhile, embattled Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, has headed to the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division, to challenge the ruling of the Code of Conduct Tribunal chairman, Danladi Umar, and Julie A. Anabor delivered on Wednesday, January 23, 2019. The appeal was filed by Wole Olanipekun (SAN) and dated January 28. It was based on the ex parte order granted by the two out of the three-member CCT that President Muhammadu Buhari relied upon to suspend Justice Onnoghen, and replaced him with Justice Tanko Mohammed, in an acting capacity. In the appeal, Onnoghen wants the appellate court to make “an order allowing the appeal” as well as “an order setting aside the order of the tribunal made on the 23rd of January, 2019, directing the appellant to step aside as the Chief Justice of Nigeria and a further order that the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria takes all necessary measures to swear in the most senior Justice of the Supreme Court as the acting CJN.” Onnoghen complained about the whole decision of the lower tribunal dated 23rd January, 2019, particularly, the ruling of the tribunal directing the appellant to step aside as the Chief Justice of Nigeria and a further order that President Muhammadu Buhari should take necessary measures to swear in the most senior Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria as acting Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman, National Judicial Council (NJC). Among the grounds of appeal was the fact that the chairman and a member of the Code of Conduct Tribunal erred in law and violated the right of the appellant to fair hearing when they made the following orders ex parte: “That the defendant/respondent shall step aside as the Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman, National Judicial Council, over allegations of contravening the provisions of the Code of Conduct and Tribunal Act, Cap C15 Laws of the Federation 2004 pending the determination of the motion on notice dated 10th January 2019.” Onnoghen: Buhari Has Desecrated Supreme Court — Bishop Kukah Again, Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah, the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, on Tuesday said President Muhammadu Buhari’s government has been acting in gross disobedience to court orders with flagrant disregard to rule of law while also launching attacks on the media. Kukah, who made this assertion while delivering a lecture at the 70th anniversary of the Nigerian Tribune symposium in Lagos, said by sacking the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen, President Buhari has broken into and desecrated Nigeria’s Supreme Court. He said, “There have been attacks on the media and disobedience of the courts as we can see in the cases of Sambo Dasuki or El Zakzaky whose detentions several courts have declared illegal. The government has continued to act in disobedience. “Now, they have broken into and desecrated the Supreme Court to install their own Chief Justice. Who will be next? That is the central question we must face before darkness envelopes us. The Rev. Martin Luther King said that a man cannot climb your back unless you bend it. “So, as the elections approach, do yourself one favour. You have listened to all the promises that have been made, the ones kept, hurriedly or strategically. Do not get carried away. On election day, before heading for the polls, take a look at yourself in the mirror and ask yourself: Am I looking better than I was last year? Do I look healthier? Do I feel more secure? “What do I want for my family? Which candidate or party offers the best opportunity for me to improve my conditions and become a better person, a better and proud citizen? These are the questions. Listen then to Prophet Isaiah who said: ‘Stand at the crossroads and look; ask for the ancient paths, ask where the good way is, and walk in it, and you will find rest for your souls (Jer. 6:16)””, he said. Speaking further, Kukah said that the line of presidents that we have had in this country have always remained unprepared for leadership, from the days of Tafawa Balewa to Shagari, Obasanjo, Yar’Adua, Jonathan and even to President Buhari who has come out to say so but was pushed by the cabal to seek and remain in power. Commenting on the deteriorating state of affairs in the country, Kukah said that all the recent happenings in the country had clearly suggested that democracy had not delivered to the majority of the people and that corruption remained the cancer that had stymied the continent’s growth. Decrying what he called the confusion in the political terrain, faulting the suspension of Walter Onnoghen, he said, “For the president, no one is infallible and what we have now is not a case of whether Justice Onnoghen is innocent or guilty. The critical word is process, right or wrong. It is not too late to retrace the steps and take the path of honour no matter where and how it all ends. “This justice has to be seen to have been done. This is where backroom democracy comes in. It all does not have to be either; the president has to find it. The whole Nigeria is his constituency, not the All Progressives Congress (APC) or his powers as president. His duty is to keep the country steady and on a right path. It is still daylight and we can find the black goat before the sun finally sets”, he said. Chief Emeka Anyaoku, former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth and the chairman of the occasion, lamented the state of affairs in the country, saying that Nigeria is in a state of war. Atiku Writes U.S., UK, Germany Over Alleged Buhari’s Breaches Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Tuesday petitioned the international community over alleged constitutional breaches under President Muhammadu Buhari. The former vice president, who called on the international community to pile pressure on the Federal Government to desist from violating the nation’s constitution, noted that the voice of the international community is very important to the survival of Nigeria’s democracy. Atiku added that piling pressure on the Federal Government would ensure a level playing field for the general election that is few days away. The PDP presidential candidate, in a letter addressed to the Ambassadors of France, Germany, EU, U.S. and UK High Commissioner, dated January 27, listed some of the constitutional breaches as the purported suspension of CJN Onnoghen; the illegal purchase of the Tucano Aircraft; disregard for orders of courts, including Col. Sambo Dasuki (former National Security Adviser) and Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, leader of a Shiite Group, IMN. Others are Executive Order No. 006 (on preservation of suspicious assets and related schedules); and the approval of $1 billion for military expenditure before approaching the National Assembly. Atiku explained that he wrote to them as Nigeria’s international development partners “working together to deepen and strengthen our democracy as well as to help in the transformation of our economies and societies for the better.” He further pointed out that President Muhammadu Buhari is threatening the nation’s democratic by breaching the provisions of the constitution. He said: “President Muhammadu Buhari is threatening our democracy by serially breaching the provisions of our constitution and undermining organs and institutions of state in order to advance his personal interest. “While the president has ironically taken oath to safeguard and defend the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the reality of his selective and wanton violations of its provisions means that his oath is observed only in the breach.”