Abuja – Hours after Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, presidential candidate of the Allied Peoples Congress of Nigeria (ACPN), announced that she was dropping her ambition to run for the 2019 presidential poll, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) rejected the action, insisting that she could not withdraw from the race, and cited relevant provisions of the Electoral Act to support its position. “It is impossible for any presidential candidate to withdraw now,” Chief Press Secretary to INEC Chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, said. He explained that the timetable and schedule of activities released by INEC clearly showed that time for such withdrawal had since elapsed and replacement of withdrawn candidates by political parties ended on November 17, 2018. “According to the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2019 general elections, the last day for withdrawal by candidates or replacement of withdrawn candidates by political parties was November 17, 2018 for presidential and National Assembly elections. “Therefore, the deadline for Ezekwesili or any candidate in that category to withdraw or be replaced has passed,” Oyekanmi said. Part 4, Section 35 of the 2015 Electoral Act, which deals with the subject matter stipulates: “A candidate may withdraw his candidature by notice in writing signed by him and delivered by himself to the political party that nominated him for the election and the political party shall convey such withdrawal to the commission and which shall only be allowed not later than 45 days to the election.” Meanwhile, the leadership of the ACPN has declared its full support for the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari. Alhaji Gani Galadima, National Chairman of the party, said the ACPN took the action because of the achievement of the incumbent leader, lamenting that Ezekwesili did not consult the party before dumping the presidential race. Ezekwesili had early on Thursday announced her withdrawal from the polls to, according to her, “help build a coalition to defeat the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party in the February 16, 2019 election”. The ACPN chairman, who was also the running mate of Ezekwesili in the February 16, 2019 race, while expressing shock over the action of the party’s symbol bearer, said the party was not totally surprised by her action. He noted that aside the showy militant posture of Ezekwesili, there was actually nothing on the ground to show that she was running for the forthcoming election. Addressing journalists in Abuja, Alhaji Galadima noted that the ACPN candidate had no campaign secretariat, billboards, branded vehicles or posters to demonstrate commitment, pointing out that the party was misled by her militant disposition. He seized the opportunity to ask Ezekwesili to immediately render accounts to the party and explain how she had used funds donated to her, both at home and abroad. Asked how much had come as donations to the party, Alhaji Galadima said he could not tell, but hinted that Ezekwesili herself disclosed the sum of $5,000 and another N35 million, of which N29 million had been spent on campaign.