LAGOS – The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) under the leadership of His Eminence, Rev. Dr. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle has declared  10 January, 2019 as a National Day of Prayers for peaceful, free, fair and credible election, and freedom for Leah Sharibu and others in the captivity of the Boko Haram terrorists. A statement  signed by Joseph Daramola, CAN National Acting Secretary said the prayer is to be organised in Abuja and all the state capitals between 11:00am and 2:00pm with a view to asking God to prevent violence, manipulation, intimidation of voters and other electoral crimes during and after the general elections. Christian politicians, especially those contesting for any of the elections, all Christian groups or organisations and all stakeholders are invited to participate in the programme, the statement said. All Christian candidates for all the elective offices or their representatives are also invited as they will be prayed for to be good ambassadors, the statement also noted. “CAN asks all State Chairmen and all denominational leaders to organise similar programme and Christian candidates who could not make it to Abuja, especially those who are contesting for State Assembly or positions of governors to attend the one being organised at the state level. “We are to pray for all Christians contesting for one post or the other for the will of God to be done concerning their ambition. That the powerful in our nation will not be able to manipulate the election and edge them out. “We will also pray for the following: That all captives in the den of the terrorists like Leah Sharibu, the Chibok girls should be set free immediately; That the general election should be free, fair and credible; That it should be violence – free and without any bloodshed; That God should use the process to give the country good and godly leaders at all levels,” the statement read in part. It added, “That every evil plan against Nigeria be frustrated; That 2019 should be a New Dawn for Nigeria; That God should stop all groups behind the killings in Nigeria and their financiers.” CAN as well urged all churches and Christians in the country to attach importance to the programme and participate en-masse in order to usher the country into a new era of peace, unity, safety and all round prosperity even as the national elections draw closer.