UYO – Of the eminent Nigerians who emerged best at various categories of the 2018 INDEPENDENT awards and recognitions was Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State who fittingly emerged best governor in Nigeria on Industrialisation and Foreign Direct Investment. As governor of a hitherto civil service state, who has within just three and a half years in office established 14 industries and 12 other employment generating ventures, the assessment and award by Independent Newspapers Limited was not just deserving, but a befitting acknowledgement of hardwork and commitment to service. As soon as he was sworn into office In 2015, Governor Udom Emmanuel, having declared industrialisation as the major thrust of his administration, encapsulated his vision for the state on a five point agenda of Job Creation; Poverty Alleviation; Wealth Creation; Economic and Political inclusion; Infrastructural Consolidation and Expansion- all revolving round industralisation. To achieve his vision, Emmanuel, shortly after being sworn into office inaugurated a Technical Committee on Foreign Direct Investment, Technical Committee on Ibaka Deep seaport project, Technical Committee on Agriculture and Food Sufficiency, and rehabilitated and resuscitated the Peacock Paint factory in Etinan. Nicknamed Mr. Industrialisation by the people, Governor Emmanuel also initiated a construction of coconut processing and a refining plant which immediately began with the planting of 2 million coconut seedlings. A rice plantation and a processing mill were also established in Ini Local government area of the state. The St Gabriel Coconut oil Factory and coconut processing mill were established at Mkpat Enin, with the capacity of desiccating 300,000 Coconuts daily, to churn out 22 tons of Virgin oil per day. While on the move to change the status of the state during his first year in office, his zeal and speed were however slowed down by the sharp drop on state’s allocation and the rise in dollar exchange rate which somersaulted the entire foreign exchange market in 2016. Determined not to abandon his dream to midwife the new and industrialized Akwa Ibom, but at the same time not commit economic and financial suicide, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Charles Udoh said Governor Udom Emmanuel, as a financial expert, went back to the drawing board to examine possible gap. “that gave birth to smaller cottage industries such as the pencil and toothpick industries which preceded the mega ones that followed after the economic recession”. Shortly thereafter, Akwa began to witness, not just industrial, but economic boom as the administration in addition to establishing industries, went steps further to reawaken the spirit of industrousness on the people with the introduction of the DAKKADA (Arise) philosophy. This came with the establishment of Akwa Ibom Enterprise and Employment Scheme (AKEES), where a team of young people went into serious research on how best to create jobs. With AKEES, Akwa Ibom youths with workable proposals were encouraged with start up funds. Cottage industries were established. Industrial welding shops and well equipped fashion houses were established in Senatorial districts across the state for Akwa Ibom youths with basic skills but without the financial muscles to acquire equipment, to get their jobs done at no cost. Then came the Metering plant, commissioned during the 30th anniversary celebration of the state by the then Acting President, now Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), on September 23, 2017, the Metering Solution Manufacturing Service Company in Onna LGA of the state which has so far rolled out over 40,000 prepaid meters for distribution in the state has added a serious boost to economic activities in the state. Governor Udom Emmanuel during the commissioning assured that the factory produces digital smart meters which functions at a per as you go basis, just like the cellular phones. The governor was of the opinion that the challenges posed by an indiscriminate billing regime will now be history as consumers can now easily acquire the digital smart meters and have control on the power they consume, and the amount they pay will actually be for the energy they have consumed. Governor Emmanuel said the “whole idea is to move towards power for all,” explaining that with the move, consumers would just key in codes and have power in their homes. Also commissioned by Osinbajo on same occasion was the Jubilee Syringe industry which he described as a landmark project, not only for Akwa Ibom but also Nigeria, adding that “it is a game changer for the nation, this is how to make governance worthwhile, i wish all the state governors were as smart as Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State. It marks local production of syringes in the country”. He said Why syringe? One may ask? Statistics shows that Nigeria consumes six billion syringes per annum, as it is the era of disposable syringes. The only syringe factory in Africa is in South Africa, with the capacity of 95million syringes per annum. Akwa Ibom State today is producing more than double the capacity of what is in south Africa. “Akwa Ibom Syringe factory has a startup capacity of producing 400million syringes annually, and is expected to be a huge income earner for Akwa Ibom State. “One may argue that 400 million does not meet demand of Nigerian market, but a 100million miles journey starts with one step, you start small and grow big in every entrepreneurial endeavour”. The Information Commissioner, Charles Udoh explained. The King Flour mill is another industrialization and employment generation endeavour of the administration. The Mill, according to Governor Emmanuel has the capacity to employ more than one thousand five hundred youths in the state. He maintained that the project is 100 percent funded by Nexim international bank. The Public Private Partnership has remained his strategy in attracting industries to the state. Still In line with the industrialization drive of Governor Udom Emmanuel, a fertilizer blending factory situated in Abak Local Government area was recently commissioned. The factory which marks a milestone in the fertilizer industry in Nigeria is more unique as the new plant has an unprecedented capacity of producing over 350,000 to 400,000 metric tons of various types of fertilizers. Other industries established/attracted by governor Udom Emmanuel include; the resuscitated Peacock Paint Factory, Plastic Manufacturing Factory, Palm Kenel Crushing Plant at Ibesikpo Asutan and Ukanafun, Petroleum Tank Farm, Mbo, Starch Manufacturing Plant and Palm Oil processing plant. Other ongoing job creation initiatives by the administration of governor Emmanuel as listed out on page 14 of his reelection manifesto include; the resuscitation of quality Ceramics, ongoing Eket International Market, phase 1, Ibom Airlines, Uyo International Market, Tropicana Shoprite Mall, Ibom Deep Seaport, Ibom Industrial Park/Jetty, Plywood Manufacturing Factory, Power Plant, Jetty, refinery, Gas Processing Plant and the ongoing Waste to Wealth Plant. These ventures have no doubt pushed unemployment in the state to its barest minimum as many who hitherto looked up to civil service for employment are currently either directly or indirectly engaged by the industries established and attracted. Confirming the workability of these endeavours on the part of the administration, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in 2017 and 2018 listed Akwa Ibom as one of the five states and the Federal Capital Territory being the most investor-friendly in the country. The NBS also said during the period, the state attracted capital importation of $18.361 million, a 27.75 per cent improvement over the previous year’s figure, noting that it was experiencing rapid economic transformation, much faster than the Nigerian average, with quality of life index growing more than 300 per cent.