Chijioke Agwu and Emma Nzomiwu Abakaliki / Enugu – Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the apex socio-cultural organisation in the South East, has finally endorsed the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, on a day President Muhammadu Buhari took his campaigns to the zone. The Igbo leadership group made its position known on Thursday after its meeting in Enugu. In a communiqué personally signed by the President General of Ohanaeze, Dr. Nnia Nwodo, and made available to Daily Independent in Abakaliki, the Igbo leaders said they chose Atiku over Buhari, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), because the PDP candidate has demonstrated his readiness to integrate the zone into the main stream of the nation’s politics by appointing their son and former Anambra governor, Peter Obi, as his running mate. The highest decision making organ of the group, the Ime Obi, also said it took the decision to support Atiku because of their search for a polity that is just, egalitarian and inclusive. Part of the statement reads, “In its collective search for a polity that is just, egalitarian and inclusive, the Ime Obi Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo met today, Thursday, January 24, 2019 at the Nike Lake Hotel, Enugu, to further deliberate on the future of Ndigbo in the chequered history of a beleaguered country. “After a critical and dispassionate appraisal of the issues and the visible fault lines in our polity, including the analysis of the election manifestos of the various contesting parties, especially with regards to the restructuring of the federation and continued relevance of our people in the Nigerian geopolitical space, the meeting resolved as follows: “That Ohanaeze remains the apex socio-cultural organisation that works for the interest of the Igbo in and outside Nigeria. It attempts to aggregate the views of all other Igbo platforms. “Ohanaeze notes particularly that a major political party (PDP) by the nomination of our son, Peter Obi, as the vice presidential candidate has given Ndigbo an opportunity for inclusivity. Ndigbo must seize the moment. “That the presidential candidate of PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has made an avowed commitment to restructuring of the federation and reconfirmed same during his recent visit to the United States in his meetings high-level US officials. “In consideration of the above and other relevant existential factors pertaining to the treatment of the Igbo in our polity, the Ime Obi Ohanaeze, therefore, hereby ratify the decision reached at the Ohanaeze National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting held in Enugu on Tuesday, January 22, 2019, to adopt the Atiku Abubakar/Peter Obi ticket in the 2019 presidential election. Ime Obi, therefore, endorses and embraces fully this ticket without equivocation, especially with regards to the position of Ndigbo at the Awka Declaration which insisted on a complete restructuring of the Nigerian polity. “Ohanaeze urges Ndigbo to see their PVCs as their most potent tool to ensure a restructured polity and for a better society. “The meeting further called on the international community to help to ensure a free and credible 2019 elections in Nigeria; and finally, Ohanaeze urges all Igbo to come out and vote and to protect their votes”. Buhari To Igbo: I Appointed Security Chiefs Based On Merit Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday said he appointed heads of security agencies in his government purely on competence and merit. The president said this while addressing the Obi of Onitsha, Nnaemeka Achebe, and other traditional and religious rulers at the palace of the monarch in Anambra State. Buhari is in the state to campaign for re-election. The president made the comments in response to allegations raised by the traditional rulers about the marginalisation of the South East states, particularly in the military. Buhari, who commended the courage of the leaders in speaking their minds, told them that he had been fair to all the regions of the country since his assumption of office on May 29, 2015. “I am pleased that you have the courage to present issues about your constituency but I expect you to be more patriotic in your presentation,” he said. “In the South East, there are five states, in the North, there are 19 states. In the South East, out of the five states, I think five members of the Federal Executive Council are from this region, Trade and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Labour, Science and Technology, and seven of the northern states have only ministers of state,” he said. Buhari said he appointed most people into the country’s security architecture without knowing them personally, except based on their professional records. “I think I tried to be fair. And you can ask these ministers. I never asked them how are they running their parastatals, the boards. I appointed them and I trust them. I allow them work.” He said the same complaints from the South East have been coming from other parts of Nigeria but that they do not reflect the truth. “I don’t have to tell you what noise the other states are making especially when compared to the votes I got in 2015. So, I think I try to be fair. “Those of you who were in the military even in the Biafran army, know that the entry point is the same and you go for basic training, until you go to your formations or institutions whether it is Army, Navy, Air Force or the police.” I Have No New Promises To South East In Enugu, President Buhari told the people of the South East geo-political zone that he has no new promise to make to them. Buhari said this while addressing a mammoth crowd at the Enugu State APC campaign rally held inside the main bowl of Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu. The president said the promises he made to the people of South East in 2015 have largely been fulfilled. Buhari recalled that the price of crude oil crashed when he came to power while infrastructure was in a sorry state. He said the people in the North-East were in a better position to say what they were before and what they are now. He said Abuja to Port Harcourt road was last done under Abacha and the railway was abandoned in a state of disrepair. Buhari who queried what was done with all the money generated in the previous dispensation, lamented that anytime he travelled around the country, he noticed that youths below the ages of 30 do not have opportunity for education. “Education is the best solution to our problems. If our youths are educated, they can overcome prejudices. They can decide for themselves. “On the economy-unemployment, we are investing in agriculture. We have three rainy seasons. Government made available fertiliser to farmers. We have attained food security in the country. Nigerians are eating Nigerian rice,” Buhari said.