Comrade Debo Adeniran is the Executive Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption And Open Leadership (CACOL). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the controversial trial of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnohen, the retirement of the Inspector General of Police (IG), and the appointment of a new one, among other issues. Excerpt: The recent retirement of former Inspector General of Police (IGP), Abubakar Idris, and the appointment of Mohammadu Abubakar Adamu as the new Acting IGP in the midst of controversy over tenure extension for Idris took many by surprise. Why do you think the Presidency changed its mind? There are some retrogressive speculations that are confounding. The speculation on the former IGP was one of them. People thought that the ex-IGP was preferable to the Presidency. We do not speculate in CACOL. We watch people’s actions before we comment. I believe that while people were speculating, the president was working silently, screening those who could be appointed replacement for Idris, those who will respect authority. Do you think the new Acting IGP has the capacity to perform considering the situation the country is in and the negative opinion of people against Abubakar Idris? On the new IGP, we do not have reasons not to be satisfied by him. Based on age and years of service, the former IGP was qualified for retirement. What we are against is for junior officers are foisted on those above them. We believe that it should be the next in rank, except if the next in rank must have committed some infractions. When a junior officer is made head of any agency, all the superiors are retired not minding their training and experience, and the officers do not have the experience to run the agencies. We are wasting resources as the officers may not put in their best knowing that they could be retired. It affects their ability to put in their best knowing that they may not rise to the top. It is not a good omen. The new IGP is coming from the Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru. His integrity could not have been compromised. He might not have been open to bribery and corruption, although there may be some administrative issues. He is a thorough professional, we hope he will rejuvenate professionalism in the force. He should be fair to all political parties, the society, officers and men of the police force. He should be loyal to the Commander-in-Chief. He should not be overzealous in the performance of his job. He should not be attacking the opposition or be on the side of the government. How do you see the drama that took place at the Lagos Police Command over the botched redeployment of the Commissioner of Police, Edgar Imohimi, who was to be replaced by Mr. Kayode Egbetokun? Every agency has its internal dynamics, based on micro politicking. There could have been some petitions against both or commendations for both. The reversal of the posting could not be due to direct politicking. The in-coming IGP could have wanted to look at the new postings. As far as we are concerned, we should be comfortable with the decisions. It could be to protect the Commissioner of Police or injecting new ideas into the areas of jurisdiction. Everything is based on information. Because police is paramilitary, we pry into what they do. If it is in the Armed Forces, we do not have such information. It is purely their internal affair. We should allow them to run their internal affairs. Would you say the planned trial of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnohen over issues relating to his asset declaration was politically motivated as a cross section of Nigerians insinuate? We are happy that the agencies are doing what they should do, treating everybody equal, not treating some as sacred cows. We solicit that every citizen should be equally treated. The case of the CJN is not different. There is internal mechanism for the agencies to monitor their officials.  The case of the CJN ought not to have been handed by another agency if there is proper internal mechanism. The case of the CJN was blocked when the Department of State Security (DSS) came up with the issue of the judges. CACOL had done some petitions to the National Judicial Council (NJC) which were not treated. The Nigerian judicial system is rotten and cannot be trusted with information about their officials. If a law exists that a case involving the CJN should he be referred to the NJC, it is an unjust law. Whoever drafted such law came from the same cohorts. They put the loopholes to protect their members. Most of the CJNs dance to the tune of the members of the NJC. All the senior lawyers are beneficiaries of the NJC and are members. The loots are shared among the senior lawyers who defend majority of corrupt people. That is how they make their money. Looters wriggle out because senor lawyers use technicalities to frustrate the cases. What is happening has been denying Nigeria the opportunity of having an effective judiciary. We are in support of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) that the CJN has not denied the charges against him. Why are we talking about technicalities that will empower the other judicial officers to do same? The Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) would have been the best place to go. But, those senior lawyers will go there to defend him. We do not believe that the NJC would have done a better job than the CCT. What is your take on the Amina Zakari’s controversy vis a vis the need for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be an impartial umpire in the coming general elections? Whatever is fair is fair. Whatever anyone says, as far as there is no evidence that such a person is not qualified or capable of performing in the position. We have seen people appointing their wives to positions.  She has said that she has no blood relationship with President Buhari. If the former administration found her worthy of the appointment and if she had not been found wanting in other positions, there is no evidence that she will be partisan. She will not be the one to count the ballots. The ballots would have already been counted. She had acted as INEC Chairman. The controversy is unnecessary. Those against her should dug out the unsavory past of Amina Zakari instead of what they are doing now. She should continue in office. Those criticising her should be vigilant. Blood relations may be distant apart on public issues. But, people who think because she is close to President Buhari and will favour him, may be disappointed. People should commission investigation against Amina Zakari instead of what is happening now. Why do you think the APC is dangling the 2013 presidential ticket for both South East and South West geo-political zones at the same time? There is no evidence that those dangling are official. Those things are not are not in the official document of APC. Those party men are speculating that will boost the chances of those areas if they support the president. Even if it is the official document of APC how will it sway the mind of people in the areas? The people can say that they are not moved by such dangling. People should vote according to their conscience. They should snub such carrots. They should be able to convince their people that they should vote for a country they should be proud of. The place a president comes from does not determine development of the area. Look at Bayelsa and the entire South South. They have the worst roads. In the South West, the roads are also bad. What benefit has their people for producing the president? We should not be sectional. The struggle of where the president comes from should be erased from people’s mind. People should stop retrogressive postulations. It is not patriotic.