Abakaliki – The Ebonyi Council of Traditional Rulers, on Wednesday, assured  President Muhammadu Buhari of unalloyed support of voters in Ebonyi State during the February 16th Presidential elections. In addition, the traditional rulers also endorsed the state Governor, David Umahi for a second term. This is even as President Buhari expresses satisfaction that the impact of federal government projects was being felt in Ebonyi State. Eze Charles Mkpuma, Chairman of Traditional Rulers Council acknowledged the love of the President by the people of the state and his robust relationship with Governor Umahi despite being from different parties, saying that this will translate to more votes for the president on the day of the election. Speaking during an audience with the President at the Ebonyi State Government House In Abakaliki, Mkpuma who commended Buhari’s determination to tackle challenges of insecurity, terrorism and corruption emphasized that he deserved the votes of people of the state and Nigerians irrespective of party differences. The monarch, who spoke on behalf of 140 traditional rulers in the state, declared that the President had done well in the fight against Boko Haram and corruption. “We appreciate your dogged determination to maintain utmost security of the country, especially your effort in eliminating Boko Haram and fight against corruption which has brought respect and integrity to the country among the committee of nations. “We believe that your robust relationship with our son, the governor, your love for him and the state will surely earn you votes in Ebonyi state irrespective of party differences,” the monarch said. Mkpuma, said traditional rulers in the state are happy with the leadership of the Governor David Umahi, saying he has virtually touched every facet of human and infrastructural development of the state. He added: “We the traditional rulers like other residents of the state have been rejuvenated and revived by the governor”. The monarchs affirmed to President Buhari that Umahi deserves a second term for the sake of equity as the two former governors before him from other zones also had two tenures. “Since the inception of the present democratic dispensation, Ebonyi state has operated rotation of the governorship seat among the three senatorial zones. Thus North had eight years with the same man, central had two terms with the same man and south is entitled to eight years with the same man. “It is right and proper that tradition should continue. This is why we have endorsed incumbent governor David Umahi whose performance has been historic and superlative as the sole candidate for 2019 gubernatorial election in Ebonyi state. We are happy with the governor. He has touched every facet of human and infrastructural development of the state,” Mpkuma said. The monarchs later presented 1,000 yams tubers and 1,000 bags of rice to the President. Speaking the President commended the governor for infrastructural development in the state and assured that monies spent on the completion of the federal projects in the state will be refunded after audited report reports by the review committee. According to the President, Umahi disclosed to him during a short drive to the government house that he had not received up to 40 per cent of the funds spent on federal projects in the state. However, he assured him the monies will be refunded once the audit committee headed by the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, conclude its work. Speaking further, President Buhari told the traditional rulers that his administration’s plans to invest in agriculture were deliberate, recalling that the First Republic was good in agriculture because the land was abundant and grazing routes developed. He added: “But subsequently we got drunk with oil money and abandoned what kept us intact. But we are going back to that (agriculture).” He assured the monarchs that the south-east will benefit from second Niger Bridge when completed and it will have a positive impact on the zone in moving goods and services. Buhari assured them that his second return will be of benefit to them as he will not be seeking a third return. The governor in his remarks affirmed that irrespective of perceptions in some quarters the south-east has benefited from federal government projects. According to him, the state benefited immensely from the federal government’s agricultural programme, saying the bumper harvest in rice production was evidence just as the state enjoyed a comparative advantage in agriculture and solid minerals. “Southeast has fared very well in terms of distribution of projects. We have an abundance of salt and we have found a solution on how to develop our salt and we needed your help to do that and you gave your approval. The solid mineral development fund is also assisting us to develop our solid minerals”. “We have also benefited very much from your agricultural programme and we have a comparative advantage in agriculture and solid minerals and we are grateful for the support in this area from you. Our people may be complaining about the appointment but I keep saying that you are a listening president and you are still coming.  The relation with the state and the way you have taken me as your son, we are grateful,” Umahi said.