LAGOS – In a bid to resolve the current stand-off between MTN and the Kogi State Government over disputed taxes, Gbenga Adebayo, the Chairman of Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), has advised the telecommunications company to pay the revised N50,000,000  Social Services Contribution Levy (SSCL) to the state revenue agency and seek legal redress in court afterwards. Adebayo gave the advice in a statement issued in Lagos in which he advised both parties to prioritise national interest, explore dialogue or seek legal resolution of contentious matters. He also reported that the Nigerian Communications Commission had similarly advised MTN to pay the revised sum and seek legal redress. Kogi State Internal Revenue Service (KGIRS) sealed MTN sites in the state capital and other locations on Tuesday last week over claims that MTN has refused to pay the N120,000,000 Social Services Contribution Levy (SSCL) due to the state in 2017 and 2018. The state government had further reviewed the total figure down to N50 million during the course of discussions with MTN. MTN on the other hand has repeatedly claimed that the levy was illegal because it was arbitrarily fixed by the state government even though the powers to determine such rates reside with the Hon. Minister of Finance, as contained in the Taxes and Levies Act. “We would like to remind all stakeholders that telecommunications facilities play very important roles in security and economy, hence their classification as Critical National Infrastructure (CNI). “As the general elections approach the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will rely on telecommunications facilities of all GSM Operators to transmit election results across the country for collation. The nation cannot afford to have running disputes between telecommunications operators and state governments. “We commend the Kogi State Government for agreeing to hold further dialogue in a bid to resolve this issue. We humbly advise state governments across the country to work closely with telecommunications operators and build strong partnerships for the mutual benefit of all stakeholders,” he stated. Shortly after the advice of ALTON to shelve legal action, the telecoms company has instituted a legal action against the Kogi State Government, claiming N5 million damages. Tobechukwu Okigbo, the MTN’s Corporate Relations Executive, made this known in Lagos on Tuesday. He said that the suit was as a result of the shutdown and confiscation of telecommunications property and equipment of the firm by the Kogi State Board of Internal Revenue. Okigbo said that the Attorney-General of Kogi State and the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) were also named as parties to the suit. “The company contends in its summons that by virtue of the provisions of Sections 4(2) and 5(1) and Item 46 Part 1 of the Second Schedule to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) only the Federal Government and its organs/agencies can either legislate or take any executive action affecting the business interest of the telecommunications company. “In the suit, filed at the Federal High Court in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital, the firm argued that its licence to operate in the state was rightfully granted by the NCC. “Despite the compliance by MTN with all requirements and conditions for the grant of the licence by the constitutionally-empowered organ, the NCC, the plaintiff’s (MTN) business premises and equipment were invaded by officers and men of the Kogi State Internal Revenue Service, who shut down and confiscated the business premises and equipment of the plaintiff on January 23. “This act of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd defendants has greatly affected the business and fortunes of the plaintiff, ’’ Okigbo said in a statement. He said that MTN argued that the Kogi State was not at liberty to usurp powers belonging to the Federal Government with respect to regulating telecommunications companies. Okigbo said that the act of the 1st to 3rd defendants was unconstitutional as it exceeded the competence of the defendants and this unconstitutional exercise of powers must with due respect, be stopped. He said that MTN was asking the court for a declaration that the acts of shutting down the base stations be deemed unconstitutional, null and void and a declaration that the parties involved did not have the power to perform such acts in the first place. Okigbo said that among other reliefs, damages amounting to N5 million were being sought, including an order directing the defendants to unseal and release to the MTN all its equipment and property. “The company has fulfilled all tax obligations. To the best of our knowledge, the Minister of Finance’s recommendation as provided in the Act is yet to be issued, and as such, it is unclear if the imposition of the fee by the Kogi State Government is on a solid legal footing. “As a responsible corporate citizen, we accord the highest priority to our sub-national tax commitments. “We wish to state that we have met in full all our tax obligations to the Kogi State Government and are not in arrears,’ he said. “MTN has provided Kogi State Internal Revenue Service (KGIRS) with documentary evidence on multiple occasions to prove its tax compliance. “MTN remains committed to operating in the state and working with relevant regulatory authorities in reaching a lasting resolution,” Okigbo said.