LOKOJA – Kogi State chapter of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) has charged Governor Yahaya Bello to urgently deploy programmes that would discourage medical doctors in the state civil service from resigning their appointments to seek greener pastures elsewhere. Dr. Kabir Zubair, chairman of NMA in the state, in a statement made available to journalists on Monday in Lokoja, felicitated with the government and people of the state on the three years of APC-led administration in the state. The chairman added that the association equally congratulated the deputy governor, the SSG, Chief of Staff, Commissioner for Health, Special Adviser on Health Matters and the entire cabinet members for their support for the wellbeing of the health workers in the state. It would be recalled that Bello was sworn-in as the fourth civilian governor of Kogi State by the Chief Judge, Justice Nasir Ajanah, on January 27, 2016. Zubair commended the state government for some positive steps it has taken in repositioning the health sector in the state. The chairman, however, urged the state government to take deliberate steps to reverse the ‘current internal drift’ of doctors and other health care workers from the Kogi State Civil Service. According to him “under this administration, a total of 88 doctors have left the state Civil Service; 79 previously, plus another nine who had succeeded in securing new employment outside the state. “It is a known fact that doctors and other healthcare workers remained the drivers of health care delivery anywhere in the world.” “Steps such as the payment of outstanding salary arrears of doctors and other health care workers, implementation of the corrected CONMESS, promotion and annual step increment among others, are needed to reverse this unfortunate trend. “As you commence your fourth year in office, the NMA as the custodian of the health of the people is ready and willing to partner with your government to right the wrong in the Kogi State health sector,” Zubair said.