LAGOS – Dr. Joseph Erico Ameh, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Kogi State, has said that he will restore the state to its enviable position if he is elected into office. Ameh, who was addressing PDP faithful who paid him a new year visit in his Itutekpe Okpo country home in Olamaboro local government area of Kogi State , promised that if elected governor in the November election, he would put the state in the right track of development during his tenure. He lamented that Kogi people under the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration of Governor Yahaya Bello had been singing songs of lamentation, stressing that they had never had it so bad as the incumbent government had not done anything to alleviate the suffering of the people. Ameh told the party faithful that they had been going through severe anguish and pains in the last three and half years of Governor Bello’s administration because the state chief executive lacked the capacity to govern and had nothing to offer them. Ameh, a security expert and member of the Security Committee of the Atiku/Obi Campaign Organisation in Kogi State, urged the people to vote for the PDP during this year’s general elections at the state and federal level and the governorship election that would be coming up in November. He said: “Atiku Abubakar is the best candidate among all those jostling for the position. If Kogi people help to elect Atiku as President, he will ensure that life returns to Kogi State. Kogi has become stagnated under the APC rule. “Kogi people should reject the APC in the coming presidential and legislative elections to ensure that the PDP chases out Yahaya Bello from the state’s Government House during the November governorship election.” Attah Emmanuel, a youth leader and member of the Atiku/Obi Campaign Organisation in Kogi State, who was part of the delegation, described Chief Ameh as the right man for the state’s governorship position, maintaining that he was on a restoration mission to right all the wrongs of the Bello administration. He stressed that Ameh was the only one among those jostling for the position, who had been doing wide consultations among the PDP faithful in Kogi State, expressing the hope that he would eventually pick the party’s ticket. Emmanuel also called on the people to vote for the Atiku/ Obi ticket if they really want to end the perennial poverty and squalor in Kogi State.