Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) says it has commenced clean-up operations of Port Channel Oil spill at Onne Federal Ocean Terminal (FOT). The water channel clean-up is the first of such project being executed by the personnel of Environment Department of the Authority. NPA Spokesman, Jatto Adams, said in a statement in Lagos on Friday that the clean-up project kicked off at the Engineering Department premises at the Federal Lighter Terminal (FLT), Onne. Onne Port Manager, Alhassan Abubakar, commended the wisdom of the Managing Director of NPA, Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman, for the approval of the water channel clean-up at the port. Represented by his deputy, Barbara Nchey-Achukwu, he said complaints by ship owners over oil spill stains on vessels calling at Onne Port would be a thing of the past. “I know after this exercise, terminal operators will no longer complain to Onne port management of stains on their anchored vessels”, he said In a brief Tool-Box meeting, Alhaji Ishola Abdulbaki, General Manager Health, Safety & Environment (HSE), said he and his team had come to Onne Port to clean up the water channels. He said they could not ascertain the actual cause of the oil spills at the port but suspected the activities of oil bunkers and waste from communities that empty into the water channels. Abdulbaki said that the team would remove debris from the waters and use chemicals to clean the water to achieve improved water. He said they would also embark on awareness campaign to raise the consciousness of the people on the need for clean waters to sustain aquatic life and navigation. Also speaking, the Assistant General Manager, Environment, Khadijat Sheidu-Shabi said that NPA had decided to carry out this oil- spill clean up to improve the quality of the port water channels, “As an Authority, we are proud to show commitment to improving the navigational water channels within Onne Port,” Sheidu-Shabi said. On his part, Uchenna Chukwuemeka, Commander, Onne Port channel clean-up operations, said materials to be deployed for the exercise include Bio-degradable materials (PRP), Remediation Products (PRP) and Pressure washers for removal of oil stains on the quay walls and the fenders. He said that the team would also be using scooping nets within the Onne water channels to remove floating debris, cans and celophane bags within the Onne water channels. The Manager in charge of Pollution, Onne Port, Mr James Edet, described the team as passionate and professional to deliver clean and safe water within the port channel. “We are set to achieve Green Port status at Onne Port water Channel, “James said.