P/Harcourt – Members of the civil society organisations, CSOs, activists have expressed utter disappointment over what they describe as the snail speed of the Ogoni cleanup exercise, two years after the project was flamboyantly flagged off by the Federal Government. Specifically, the stakeholders say the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project, HYPREP, handlers of the project which was flagged off on July 2, 2016, were yet to deploy equipment to the site, especially areas heavily affected by the pollution, which makes people feel frustrated about the efficiency and capacity of the agency to handle such a technical project. However, the leadership of HYPREP does not seem to subscribe to the postulations of the rights groups, especially the environmental activists, insisting that the project is a 30-year exercise that does not require any form of rush to please anybody or group. But, in what appeared as a no-holds-barred, Dr. Peter Medee, President of KAGOTE, an acronym for the four council areas of Khana, Gokana, Tai and Eleme local governments in Ogoniland of Rivers State disagrees with the allegations, saying work was in progress at the various sites against the insinuations of many Nigerians “who want a quick fix”, but that funds are yet to be released for the commencement of the project. Medee, a senior lecturer at the University of Port Harcourt and a member on the board of trustees, BoT of the HYPREP told Sunday INDEPENDENT that contract has been awarded to twenty one (21) companies already and they were yet to be mobilized to site because of the bottleneck procedure in the release of funds to them. “Contracts have just been awarded to companies. They are waiting for funds. The law in Nigeria states that any contract sum that is above N500million must be approved by the federal executive council, FEC. The money is available and is ready but FEC must approve it. “Everything we do here is in line with the public procurement law. We are waiting for a letter from the Bureau of Public Procurement, BPP, to the Federal Executive Council, FEC, so that money could be released to mobilize the contractors to site”, he said. He also said about 60% of the United Nations Environmental Program, UNEP, recommendations have been achieved so far by HYPREP, citing the agency’s incorporation of the Ogoni Trust Fund, establishment of BoT and the Governing Council among others as steps on the right direction. But Dr. Godwin Ojo, executive director of environmental rights action and friends of the earth, ERA/FoE, differs insisting that the cleanup exercise has been very slow because it has been “politicised”. He said the way HYPREP was founded was to muscle the people of Ogoni because it was not originally saddled with the responsibility of cleaning up the Ogoni environment but tilted towards reporting the oil spills in the Niger Delta region. His words: “The present HYPREP lacks foresight. It has no clear cut work plan. And if it did, the work plan was not subject to public scrutiny to know whether it conformed to the UNEP guidelines or not. Very little or nothing is known about the contractors they hired for the job. Everything in HYPREP is shrouded in secrecy.” According to the environmental activist, the UNEP report recommendation is different from what the interventionist agency is currently doing in Ogoniland. For instance, integrated soil test, alternative source of drinking water and alternative source of income and other basic things recommended by the world body have not been put in place by HYPREP. Ojo reasoned that should the Federal Government abandon the project, it would be viewed that the whole exercise was politically motivated. He wondered why after almost three years the program was ceremoniously flagged off in a carnival format, no tangible thing has been done to better the lots of the Ogonis who suffer the brunt of the most devastating environmental abuse ever. Fyneface Dumnamene Fyneface, a program coordinator and research officer of social development integrated center, otherwise known as Social Action praised the federal government for the action taken so far towards the cleanup exercise but admitted that the actual cleanup of the Ogoni environment was yet to commence. The activist said there was nothing on ground to kick start the cleanup exercise and faulted Dr. Medee’s postulation that the interventionist agency had achieved 60% of work done at the various sites of the project. “The basics are not on ground. UNEP recommended a lot of basic things to be done including the provision of portable water to save the Ogonis from further contamination. These things are not provided for, how then can anybody say they have achieved a milestone in the exercise? “Ogoni leaders are in one accord for this cleanup. There are key Ogoni sons on the board of the HYPREP and in charge of the agency. They want to see this exercise done, and done in a way that it will be beneficial to all Ogoni people to make for their years of suffering as a result of the pollution and devastation of their major sources of livelihood”. Fyneface who refused to describe the delay in the takeoff of the exercise as political, said that the international oil companies, IOCs, and other major stakeholders were in full support of the cleanup exercise. He however expressed worry that it has taken this long for a significant impact to be done in the cause of the exercise. Late last year, the then spokesman of the movement for the survival of Ogoni people, MOSOP, Fegalo Nsuke had challenged HYPREP on the need to device a proper means of good water for the Ogonis in line with the UNEP guidelines. “It is absurd that HYPREP is desperate to spend money on the clean-up of Ogoniland just as elections approach without first putting in place the Integrated Soil Management Center, which should take care of the wastes from the cleanup process,” he said. He further alleged that what HYPREP was doing is to desperately find ways that can allow them spend money meant for the cleanup without concern for the integrity of the process, adding that HYPREP was no longer concerned about the fundamental recommendations of the UNEP report which concerns the Ogoni people, especially the provision of safe drinking water in Ogoni communities as an emergency measure. Nsuke warned that the impact of excavation and cleaning of the massive spill situation in Ogoniland would be counter-productive without providing alternative sources of water for the people. “HYPREP should be ashamed that up till now, it has been unable to provide water for the Ogoni people and it has spent over USD10million without any positive impact on the people,” he said. The MOSOP’s former spokesman called for the removal of Shell from the governing council of HYPREP and the BoT as the company (Shell) is still seen by the Ogoni people as a “killer and an enemy”. Sometimes last year, MOSOP had issued HYPREP, a 60-day ultimatum to commence an integrated water project for Ogoniland or face a civil shutdown. Nsuke who addressed Ogoni people on this decision said the deaths in Ogoniland had become intolerable, adding that the delay in providing water would no longer be tolerated. He said in a week, at least 100 persons die in the coastal communities in Gokana Local Government Area, describing the situation as “a deliberate ploy to kill the people and force them to accept the alleged poor standards being adopted by HYPREP in handling the cleanup”. It is a fact that the cleanup process is a technical one. But what the locals in Ogoni are most keen of seeing is the deployment of equipment to the necessary sites for work to commence in earnest. But as it stands now, people believe that both the Federal Government and HYPREP have not shown enough seriousness in the cleanup process. Consequently, it is in this vein that another Ogoni rights activist, Sunny Zorvah, former program director of MOSOP under the leadership of former President Ledum Metee, said as an Ogoni man, he was disappointed with the slow pace of the cleanup exercise. “We want to see HYPREP fast track the process because a lot of people in the communities are dying every day. This is as a result of the polluted water that they are still drinking and using for domestic affairs. It is discouraging that after more than two years of ceremonious flag off of the process, nothing seems to happen up till now”, he said. Zorvah pointed out that the performance of HYPREP was far below average, adding that Ogoni people and the observers of happenings in that part of the country would be happier if work starts earnestly at the heavily polluted sites across the ancient kingdom of Ogoniland. “The process and the effort of HYPREP must be visible. People want to see things. They will be excited to see that their long sustained plight is now physically being tackled. This will go a long way to recreate that sense of belonging among the Ogonis,” he said. It is a common phenomenon in Nigeria that paucity of funds has always been identified as the reason a seemingly laudable project is either slowed down or abandoned out rightly. That may not be said of the Ogoni cleanup exercise. This is rightly so because based on the recommendations of the United Nations Environmental agency, the $1billion agreed for the project is enough to create a significant impact in that environment. To avoid meddlesomeness by politicians or influential members of the society, the stakeholders agreed that the one billion dollars should be staggered for five years. Two hundred million dollars is to be released each Calendar year and Dr Medee said this year’s $200million has already been applied for. “Let me formally inform you that the IOCs have fulfilled their obligation to be able to release the first tranche of the fund expected for the clean-up of Ogoniland. As I speak to you, we have $170million in the account of the Ogoni Trust Fund. This is because they were expected to pay in $180million, being less 10 per cent of the $200million we were expecting because the 10 per cent is expected to come from local refineries. “So, if you take 10 per cent off $200million, that will be $180million. And they had contributed $10million before now. What was outstanding for this year’s first tranche was $170million. And we presently have $170million in the account of Ogoni Trust Fund with the Standard Chartered Bank of London”, he said. He further disclosed that the IOCs released $76million, representing 45 per cent of their own contribution in May, 2018, while the NNPC remitted its 55 per cent share on July 31, 2018, stressing that the totality of the fund came from a Joint Venture Partnership operated by SPDC in which the NNPC has 55 per cent share, SPDC, 35 per cent, NAOC, 5 per cent and Total E & P, 5 per cent. “That is what makes up the 100 per cent of the equity contribution for the Ogoni cleanup.” Explaining further on the $20million balance, which is yet to be remitted, Dr. Peter Medee who is also a senior lecturer in the Economics Department of the University of Port Harcourt said, “The UNEP Report said 10 per cent will come from local refineries. We are yet to identify those that are expected to bring the money from the local refineries. “Like I said, we are yet to know those that will constitute the local refineries. This is because if you look at the Ogoni area, we have two refineries and we have a petrochemical complex. These might not be local refineries. They all belong to NNPC, which is also paying 55 per cent of the fund. “For now, we are yet to identify where that fund will come from. But that is part of the job of the Board of Trustees. We will definitely put in place measures to get the exact source where that 10 per cent is supposed to come from”. But Styvv Obodaoke of the civil liberty organizations, CLO, south-south zone remarked that HYPREP believes in making noise about the cleanup but no action. He called on the agency to judiciously utilize the “huge” amount of money available to them and start the cleanup of the environment to save more lives of the Ogoni people. “All the communities are complaining that there is nothing on ground to show that these people are ready to kick start the process. They have so far received enough money, what is the thing that is still holding them back from starting the exercise!” The CLO zonal coordinator called on the agency to do more of public enlightenment to put people in the know on what they have done so far and what they intend to do in the shortest possible time. This is because; “many communities in Ogoni still rely heavily on the polluted water for their survival. It is not supposed to be so. It is more than two years now since the cleanup was flagged off by the Federal Government with fun fare. It is sad that no significant thing has happened so far”. The discordant tune trailing the slow pace of the project is expected. It is now asking the question as whether it would have been more profitable to award the original contract of the cleanup from the crucibles to a foreign firm with sufficient world-class standard equipment to get the job done. As it stands right now, people are bound to read political meanings in to the process as it has been delayed up to the election season, yet again. It is important that parties involved in the cleanup should consider the welfare of the indigenous Ogoni people who suffer the impact of the polluted environment on daily basis.