Shettima Yerima is the Leader of the Arewa Youths. In this interview with JULIET OYOYO, he spoke on a lot of crucial issues in the polity, especially as they concern the 2019 general elections. Excerpts: The insecurity situation across the country has heightened to an alarming level presently as the nation approaches the general elections. What does this portend for the nation’s democracy and the country? Well, the issue of insecurity is very serious. The primary responsibility of every government is to protect the lives and properties of its citizens. The welfare and other things come into play and the absence of security of lives and properties of the people it is a clear indication of the failure of the government. In developed countries where people know what governance is all about, the moment there are issues of inconsistency, carelessness, either deliberately or unconsciously, a responsible leader resigns. In the case of Nigeria, the reverse is the case. Rather than getting worried, it becomes an issue to celebrate. This is how lives become so meaningless in our country, Nigeria. So, for us, this is not a good time for the country as the nation is really sick. We really have to wake up and look at the challenges properly. This country is great. Nothing is better than the country. We should be seen to be up and doing. We must at some point, drop personal interests. We must leave parties and political differences; leave the differences of who is where and put our hands together and save the country. If there is no country, there will be no political party. If there is no country, there will be no individual who is contesting. The country must come first. That is the situation we find ourselves today. It is clear that apart from the home state of the president, even the governor of Borno State admitted that things have truly gone out of hand. Also, I was made to understand even in Katsina State, the governor had to come out recently to complain that the state is under siege. This is not to talk of Kaduna, Zamfara where which have become a war zones completely. Benue and other states have challenges of insecurity. Nowhere is safe anymore. In as much as I am concerned about the North, I also want to draw the attention of people in the southern parts of the country to also look at this problem as national. It should not be seen just as a northern problem because what affects one directly, affects the other too. We need stability. The northern part of this country is fighting several wars. There are crimes and criminality all over. From kidnapping to killings, robbery, insurgency and all sorts of things are happening, with banditry everywhere. So, it is unfortunate. I have been having sleepless nights as we are already approaching elections where all businesses now and even the attention of government and security agents, rather than thinking of protecting lives and properties, are protecting their interests and would be doing the bidding of somebody somewhere. So, I think the country is sick. That’s the summary. The recent visit by a delegation from the National Association of Nigeria Students (NANS) to President Muhammadu Buhari has been raising eyebrows considering the on-going strike by lecturers and the threat by the National Joint Committee (NJC) to join the action. As a youth leader, how do you view the visit by the NANS to the President? You see, it is so unfortunate that today we have a so-called group of youths that are supposed to be worried about their generation and see the challenges. But at the end, they get carried away. Specifically, let me talk about the issue of the students unions now that just came out recently to make an endorsement. It is sad that despite all the strikes, this can happen. No nation survives with the kind of neglect that the Nigerian government has subjected the educational sector to. To an extent, one would have expected that the students unions must be seen to be more proactive and not become counter-productive. As it is today, they have become counter-productive. Rather than channeling their synergy and capacity towards ensuring that the educational sector is not being undermined by any individual or group of people or any irresponsible government, they are today the ones championing their cause. As you can see, the government is deploying another tactics of ‘divide and rule. They have introduced divide and rule into student unionism. This is exactly what they did to Miyetti Allah and also to the Northern Elders Forum and even the Afenifere. You should expect more to come. They say that they have integrity whereas all they do is to use money to induce people. That is what is happening today as a result of these endorsements from all manners of people. Are you saying that the youths were given money to endorse the APC Presidential candidate, President Buhari? Make no mistake about it. That is exactly the situation and what is happening. That is what they do. They go around and look for groups that are threat to them and look for means to divide them by bringing individuals who are very hungry. They will give them money and before you know it, there will be a change. I have mentioned two organisations that I know of that such things happened. The same with Afenifere and the Northern Elders Forum. I do not know if by tomorrow, my own group will equally have the challenge. So, it is possible for them to use money to induce people. But, whatever it is, those who are useless within an organisation will always sell out. Some of us who are strong and committed and have been in the trenches for close to two decades, we make statements and we stand by it no matter what. So, you will now begin to know the differences between genuine youth leaders and those others who see struggles as business and means of livelihood. You will see a lot of them emerging soon. It is unfortunate that this government does not recognise the youths, does not have respect for our generation. Yet, the same youths are used as machineries to kick and support this evil going on in the land. It is unfortunate. However, we are almost getting there. Nigerians are left with a choice; either to remain in this condition, or, change in their lives. We are doing our best to reach their conscience and educate people on what they really need to do or, they will remain like this forever. Whichever way they choose, it is the choice of Nigerians. But for us, we shall continue to say it the way it should be. What about the ongoing strike and threat of strike by Labour? Do they even have respect for Labour? Do they have any respect for workers or any organised unions? From the body language of the government, they are not looking for any alternative. Rather, the minimum wage is something many of the governors have come out to say they cannot cope. But, they have billions of naira to spend and millions of naira to give to any representative of government. They no longer steal billions, but they now loot in trillions. Sadly, at the end of the day, they do not also think that the Nigerian worker deserves to have just ordinary N30,000 that is not enough for them to feed their dog in a day. That is how bad it is. They cannot give that to their worker who stays to work for 30 days. They expect the worker to feed his family, buy medication, pay for transport and other needs, out of this amount. That is how wicked, insensitive our Nigerian leaders are. To worsen matters, we have an arrogant Minister that does not have respect for humans, the Minister for Labour and Productivity, Dr. Chris Ngige. His utterances and attitude have actually demonstrated what these people in power today think about Nigerians. This arrogance must be stopped. National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, recently raised concerns over the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar on his supposed inability to travel to the United States of America. How do you see Oshiomhole’s statement? Well, I will simply ask a question. Is it a constitutional matter that Atiku will go to America before he is qualified to contest as the President of the country? If the answer is no, that is, either yes or no. That is also to say it is our prayers that Atiku does not go to America and Americans should stop him from going. Let him stay home and work for us. We do not even need him to have any working relationship with America. He should stay and face issues domestically and do it. This issue and mentality and the re-colonisation of our political leaders is my problem. You cannot sit down at home and work for your people. You will rather believe that this western world should die with you even after Independence as a sovereign nation; a republic of your own after 50 years plus. They said go freely but you still go back to them to foist yourself on them. This re-colonisation will not help this country. We must do things our own way. For me, it is not a big deal if Atiku does not go to America for which I know that he does not have any problem with America. Aas far as I am concerned, America is even willing to accept and receive him. All of these are mere propaganda. They allege that the man is corrupt, yet they cannot come forward to bring out anything against him. You are only sitting down and from your figments of imagination, make all sorts of allegations on corruption. Today, the level of corruption we have in this present administration/government is far worse than what we have ever experienced in the country in the last 50 years. It is the worst ever. The level of debt this country has incurred in the past three years has never happened in all these years. So, what are we talking about? Where is the impact of all of these? There is massive poverty, massive unemployment, insurgency; crime rate has soared as a result of the poverty level in the country. There is severe hunger in the land so much that you cannot even imagine. So, I wish that Atiku does not even go to the US. Nigerians will still vote for him. He does not need to go to America to be qualified. In fact, we need local products now as we don’t even want these America things. The one that has gone to America in the past three years plus who at a point was going there almost every day has become a burden to them. Nobody is even talking anymore. Of what good has that travels done to this country? What have we achieved from all that diplomatic and foreign policies that we have been talking? Nothing. Amina Zakari, a relation of President Buhari has been appointed head, the Centre for the Collation Committee for the Presidential elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). What is your take on this? The issue of Amina Zakari, whether she is related to the incumbent president or not, whether she is serving under him, whether she is his niece, cousin or sister or whatever, as far as I am concerned, it is even more than an indictment. The case of Amina Zakari in INEC is nothing, but to rig. It is just to rig the election. Her presence there is a major fear for free and fair elections in the country. That is a strong allegation on your part. It is not an allegation, but something that is open knowledge and a public matter. People have said it in the past and many are very uncomfortable. You cannot tell me that in the entire INEC you don’t have any other credible person except Amina. You are not being fair to Nigeria. When everybody rose against her, if this government is responsible, a very responsible government, they should have dropped her and announced any other name. So, for me, these are issues that cannot be swept under the carpet as long as people have raised fundamental observations about her and if they still insist on leaving her there, I will simply advice Nigerians not to go for any elections because, the elections has been rigged already. How would you describe President Buhari, especially based on the issues of his integrity and leadership qualities? There is nothing like that. Integrity! You cannot convince me that a government that claims to have integrity can also have people who are massively corrupt. The moment they defect from the opposition to your party, you accept them and then, you wipe away their sins without probing them. You cannot tell me that this government has integrity with the massive corruption that is going on now with Daura Diary that has suddenly become a Dubai of its own in less than three years and you tell me about integrity. You cannot tell me about integrity whereby people who, three years ago, did not have N50,000 to N100,000 in their accounts, but today, are billionaires and you want to tell me about integrity. You cannot tell me about integrity when you claim and tell the whole world that you have discovered so much money in the hands of looters. But today, the debt rate of the country is so high and with nothing to show for it. Therefore, you cannot tell me about integrity when you go about sharing N10,000 to buy the conscience of common people and you tell me about integrity. They cannot tell me about integrity. So, let us leave the issue of integrity aside and let us face reality. The reality is that they have failed and they cannot be anything better than they are today. You cannot give what you do not have and they do not have anything to offer the country. CONTINUED FROM P.13 ¢