Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Every human being was created for a purpose. The purpose of existence is the ultimate goal of one’s being. It can also be defined as one’s calling or vocation. The purpose of one’s existence is what defines the person. It is in fact, the essence of one’s existence. Life without a purpose is a life without direction. The happy and the most fulfilled ones on earth are those who discovered their purpose of existence and were able actualise their mission here on earth. Before the end of this reflection you must discover the purpose of your existence and God will give you the grace to actualise it. God did not create man by chance. Man was not a product of accident. Before creating man God had a plan and a purpose for him. In the book of Genesis 1:26 the Lord God said, “Let us make humankind in our image, according to our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the wild animals of the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth.” Man was the only animal that was created in God’s image and likeness. Although he was the last and the most vulnerable animal in the order of creation, yet, out of love God placed him over and above every other things He created. Man was given the authority to govern the entire creation. The psalmist was amazed at the enviable position where God placed man. Reflecting on the glorious position of man in the order of creation, Psalm 8 declares, “what are human beings that you are mindful of them, mortals that you care for them? 5 Yet you have made them a little lower than God, and crowned them with glory and honour. 6 You have given them dominion over the works of your hands; you have put all things under their feet, 7 all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, 8 the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas.” Unfortunately, man did not even know that he is a being with a difference. Some men have even reduced themselves lower than inanimate things by worshipping idols, the work of human hands. Our Lord Jesus Christ was the first man that discovered the purpose of his existence. He knew clearly why he came into the world (Luke 4:18).  And within a short period of his life he was able to actualize the purpose of his existence (Philippians 2:6-11). Most of the great prophets in the bible did not know the purpose of their existence. As God tries to reveal the purpose of their existence they were surprise. Some of them even doubted the purpose of their existence. For instance, when God told Moses that he was destined to liberate the Israelites from bondage,  he asked, “Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh, and bring the Israelites out of Egypt?” (Exodus 3:11). Moses saw himself as nobody but in the sight of God, he was a great liberator. God used a lot of signs and wonders to prove to Moses that he was not just an ordinary human being. He was a destined child. The moment Moses discovered the purpose of his life, he lived a fulfilled life. At a stage he was even the one encouraging his fellow Israelites. When the Egyptians were matching forward to attack them he told his people, “Do not be afraid, stand firm, and see the deliverance that the LORD will accomplish for you today; for the Egyptians whom you see today you shall never see again. 14 The LORD will fight for you, and you have only to keep still.” Imagine, this is the same Moses that thought he was nobody! When he finally discovered the purpose of his existence he was now speaking like a warrior. Child of God, from today God will transform your life from nobody to somebody. He will use you to deliver your people from bondage. When God called the Prophet Jeremiah he revealed to him the purpose of his existence. He said, “Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations.” Jeremiah was surprise and even afraid. He exclaimed: “Ah, Lord GOD! Truly I do not know how to speak, for I am only a boy.” 7 But the LORD said to me, “Do not say, ‘I am only a boy’; for you shall go to all to whom I send you, and you shall speak whatever I command you. 8 Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you, says the LORD.” Child of God, I may not know your age. But even if you are as young a Jeremiah the Lord will use you to deliver your nation. As a child of God, you are not just ordinary – You are indeed a prophet to the nation! When the Lord called Gideon he said to him through an angel, “The LORD is with you, you mighty warrior.” 13 Gideon answered him, “But sir, if the LORD is with us, why then has all this happened to us? And where are all his wonderful deeds that our ancestors recounted to us, saying, ‘Did not the LORD bring us up from Egypt?’ But now the LORD has cast us off, and given us into the hand of Midian.” 14 Then the LORD turned to him and said, “Go in this might of yours and deliver Israel from the hand of Midian; I hereby commission you.” 15 He responded, “But sir, how can I deliver Israel? My clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my family.” 16 The LORD said to him, “But I will be with you, and you shall strike down the Midianites, every one of them.”  Child of God, even if you are from the minority group or weakest clan as in the case of Gideon, God will still use you to deliver your people from bondage. When God is involved, your family background does not really matter. God will use you to humiliate the Midianites of your generation. He will use you to silence the fools. The call of Peter was an interesting one. It has something to do with divine vocation and breakthrough. Before Peter finally discovered the purpose of his life he spent most of his life as an ordinary fisherman. He was actually laboring in vain until the very day when he encountered Jesus Christ, the Destiny changer. Jesus said to him. “Put out into the deep water and let down your nets for a catch.” 5 Simon answered, “Master, we have worked all night long but have caught nothing. Yet if you say so, I will let down the nets.” 6 When they had done this, they caught so many fish that their nets were beginning to break. 7 So, they signaled their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both boats, so that they began to sink. 8 But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, “Go away from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man!” (Luke 5:4-8) Child of God, even if you are a sinner, like Peter, there is still hope for you! As Jesus is stepping into the boat of your life your destiny will change! Your business will flourish. You will start recording success in your academics. And it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!