Barrister Roland Oweilaemi Pereotubo is the President, Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide, and President General, All Ethnic Nationalities in the Niger Delta. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see President Muhammadu Buhari’s refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill? Do you think the National Assembly as presently constituted can override the President’s veto? The President’s refusal to give his assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill is constitutionally sacrilegious. It is a recipe for electoral malfeasance. His action may drag us back to the dark days of ballot robberies and all sorts of electoral fraud as we have already experienced in Ekiti and Osun states’ governorship elections. Though Mr. President declared in his New Year message that 2019 elections will not be a do-or-die affair, his conduct in refusing to upgrade the electoral system will aid do-or-die elections. He should not just make lip service promises without taking legal steps to nip the challenges in the bud. As for the National Assembly, they have the constitutional power and time to veto Buhari’s assent, but have chosen to play politics on the altar of party interest. The excuse they gave is not tenable. I cannot believe that the National Assembly has no time and number to exercise their power. I think that the leadership of both houses does not have the courage to fish in turbulent waters. Perhaps, they don’t see how important their actions will rescue the country from the abyss of electoral malpractices that is staring at us in our faces. I give kudos to Sen. Ken Nnamani-led National Assembly which spite of the monetary inducements and threats from the presidency, threw away the third term bill. At least, their courage and resilience saved the country from the then impending crisis. For the first time, the nation’s President was booed and jeered at by lawmakers during the 2019 budget presentation. What is your take on that? That sounds as an uncivilised act by a supposed respected body of lawmakers. However, there is a common saying that he who wears the shoe knows where it pains. There is a saying that there is no smoke without fire. I think that something could have instigated that action. We have had a situation where serving presidents were humiliated in public forum in advanced countries. President George W. Bush of America was stoned at a public forum when he was in government. What an independent mind needs to say about this ugly incident is to probe the cause of the action. Something must have instigated it and I blame all sides of the divide. The President himself, his party faithful at the two chambers have turned the more serious and constitutional event into a campaign platform. And of course, the opposition parties will join the fray in staging a political brinkmanship. I think that such free for all political campaigns in a place of serious legislative business could have opened the floodgate of that unruly behaviour by the lawmakers. What is your view on the 2019 budget as presented to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari? I have not taken time to carefully study the budget line by line. So, I don’t have much to say about it for now. I will respond appropriately when I study it. For now, my concern is the level of implementation of the 2018 budget. I don’t think the Federal Government has implemented up to 20% of that budget and we are having another budget of N8trn in 2019. With the recent killings by the Boko Haram, especially the killing of Nigerian soldiers by the insurgents, what would you say is the state of the war against insurgency? Is the government really winning the war against the sect? The war against terrorists is losing traction. The government is at the receiving end of the scourge. Sorry to say this. It seems that insurgents are winning the war. The government has failed in its vow to win the war against terror within three months after assumption into office. Its proclamation of technically defeating the insurgents and subsequently the acclaimed total eradication of the Islamic militants are ruse. With what is happening in the North East on a daily basis, it is so clear that the government was lying about its acclaimed victories over the Islamic sects. The government should not use propaganda to prosecute the war. Lies and image laundering cannot win this war. Such postures are only ridiculing our international image. The government should probe the various budgetary allocations to the defence ministry. In spite of huge sums of money going into the ministry for the procurement of arms, the reports we are getting about soldiers at the warfront are embarrassing. A change of guards is needed at this critical time. I think people are just playing politics with the lives of Nigerians. How do you see the decision of the Military to carry out ‘Operation Python Dance’ in every party of the country at the same time? That is the worst decision ever taken by the military. There is no need to carry out nationwide military drill except it has an ulterior motive. The military will be over stretched and it will end up inviting more troubles for the country. Every military drill for now should be concentrated in the North East. You have war to fight and you want to ferment trouble in some other peaceful regions? I don’t know how this asinine reasoning made sense to the initiators of this ill-conceived and self-destructive plan. If the purpose of deploying military to the entire country in the name of ‘Operation Python Dance’ is to achieve political aim, then the present government will be putting the country at risk. Such action will beget civil unrests and it will spell doom for the nation. Those who think that they can rig the 2019 elections with the aid of the military should have a rethink of their action because Nigerians are ready to resist any move to subvert the will of the people. How do you see the recent warning given to INEC by Southern and Middle Belt leaders against election rigging? That warning is our stand. Any move to rig the elections will be met with dare consequences. I pray that the government should heed to the voice of reasons by upholding the President’s avowal to conduct free, fair and credible elections. What is your take on the alleged plan by President Muhammadu Buhari to extend the tenure of the IGP Idris Abubakar? Constitutionally, I don’t think Mr. President is empowered to extend IGP’s tenure when the police boss has completed his years of service. If, however, there is any such legal power given to the President, the present security situation in the country requires change of guards. Extending the tenure of the outgoing IGP means the President has some skeleton in his cupboard. He cannot promise free and fair elections and at the same time taking steps that will encourage electoral malfeasances. This present IG is playing partisan politics and his position is affecting an effective policing of the country. We have witnesses to his insubordination and dereliction to presidential directives, which has led to the massacre in Benue State. There are several presidential candidates in the 2019 elections. But, the focus seems to be on Atiku Abubakar and President Muhammadu Buhari. Why is this so? The truth is that it will be difficult for any other party to win the presidential election apart from either the PDP or the APC. This is a political reality and I don’t think anybody is in doubt.