Enugu – Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, has denied endorsing Alhaji Atiku Abubarka, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 presidential election. Chuks Ibegbu, Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the organisation, disclosed this on Thursday in Enugu at a media briefing to mark the second anniversary of the current executive of the organisation. Ibegbu said that the clarification became necessary following misconceptions on the event of November 14, 2018 where some Igbo leaders endorsed the candidacy of Atiku Abubakar for presidency. It would be recalled that some Igbo leaders had during a meeting in Enugu attended by Atiku and the national leaders of the PDP including the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki endorsed Atiku. Ibegbu, however, clarified that the said endorsement was done by the friends of Atiku, adding that the organisation had not endorsed any particular candidate. The deputy national publicity secretary said that the organisation needed to be circumspect, “as our children are in all the political parties. “It is erroneous to say that we endorsed Atiku. Ohanaeze Ndigbo did not endorse anybody. That meeting at Nike Lake Resort was organised by friends of Atiku. “However, due to our peculiar circumstance in the country, we will identify with candidates that will restructure Nigeria if voted into power,” he said. He said that the organisation would soon meet to take a holistic position on the 2019 general elections. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo has been canvassing for our people to identify with candidates that will restructure Nigeria. “We still stand on that and in the next few days we shall meet to take a holistic position on the elections,” he said. The body pledged to continue to work in the best interest of the people especially the peaceful agitation for restructuring of the country. According to Ibegbu, time shall vindicate the group regarding our position for peaceful agitation for the restructuring of the country. He said that every action taken by the organisation within the last two years was in the best interest of the people of the area. He said that one of their greatest challenges within the period was the lack of understanding of some national issues among some of their sons and daughters. “The lack of understanding of some of our sons and daughters has been our greatest challenge. There is nothing we cannot achieve if we are united and speak with one voice. “With time, everybody will see why we have taken position on peaceful agitation for restructuring of the country,” he said. Ibegbu said that funding was another major issue in the organisation and appealed to entrepreneurs and other well placed individuals from the area to assist in that regard. He said that contrary to opinions in some quarters, state governors from the area were not funding the organisation. He said that depending on governors for funding could erode their nonpartisan stance, adding “that is why we cannot go cap in hand begging governors for funding. “We decided to live within our means and call on our sons and daughters to assist us,” Ibegbu said. He noted that within the two years in office of the Chief John Nwodo led Ohanaeze Ndigbo, “We have given our modest contribution by re-jigging Igbo leadership and issues concerning our people”. He said that the current leadership of the organisation has built synergy with its affiliate groups with a view to achieving unity in the area. He said that the dexterity and leadership acumen of Nwodo had positively affected the relationship between the organisation and other ethnic socio-cultural associations in the country. “This has earned the president general an award as ‘Bridge Builder of the Nation’, which will be presented to him on January 17 by Daily Independent,” Ibegbu said.