Barrister Pascal Ugbome, a seasoned politician and pioneer member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has held several positions, including being a member of the Edo State House of Assembly and Edo North Vice Chairman of the party. Ugbome, in this interview with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO, spoke on his party’s chances in the coming elections. Excerpt: How prepared is the PDP for the coming elections? It is a call to duty. It is a responsibility Nigerians have placed upon us as a party. The level of poverty in the land and the suffering of the people are very high. So, it has become a call to duty for the PDP to carry out ‘operation change the change’. Even those who brought the change seem confused because it was conceived out of hypocrisy and malice. They do not seem to have a road map on how to achieve what they are selling to Nigerians. So, the PDP is very ready. The other day when we launched our manifesto, it was very clear from the manifesto that our Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is up and doing. He is alive to the challenges that face us as a nation. That manifesto clearly defined the methodology and has clearly outlined how to get Nigeria out of the woods. So, how else can you prepare? We have started our campaign. We have been in the North Central, North East, we have done three major presidential campaigns. The incumbent are yet to even take off. So, that shows you that we are very prepared. We are prepared and we have even made the election an international matter because what the incumbent wants to do is just to rig and perpetuate themselves in office. That is why we have internationalised the move to ‘change the change’ so that we brought the international focus to bear on Nigeria electoral process going forward in 2019. That is why only recently because of the pressure, the Presidency came out to say the President will willingly hand over if he is defeated because it is becoming clear that they have lost Nigerian people. Going by the docility of the PDP in the Ekiti and Osun elections, how would you assure them that it is really on rescue mission in 2019? Well, PDP is not docile. The court process, the judicial process, the tribunal is part of the electoral process, except you are advocating that PDP should have taken arms to fight a very desperate, shameless government in power and we do not believe that. If you look at it, just like the parable of the woman with the baby in the Bible where Solomon displayed profound wisdom, it is very clear PDP loves this country. We love Nigeria. While PDP was prepared to go through due process, the rule of law, the APC and the government were not prepared. They wanted war. They wanted everything to go gaga. They have always preached blood and all that because they are not competent to rule this country. They have demonstrated that and we will not fall into that trap because if we do and violence breaks out and there is an insurrection and civil war, our people will suffer.  So, we have decided in Ekiti and Osun to go through the route of democratic protestation. That is what we have done by going to court and I believe that we will have our day in court and so far so good. Nigerians are apprehensive that INEC may not conduct a free and fair election despite assurances. What is your take on this? It goes beyond being apprehensive. We need to be eternal vigilant, eternal vigilance is the price you pay for liberty. So, we need to be vigilant. Everybody has to be at their polling units. You must be the policeman, we must need to defend our votes. It is not a job for PDP alone, every person needs to be up and doing. When you cast your vote, you remain there and monitor it. If you defend your unit and I defend my unit, it will be difficult for anybody to just manipulate. The refusal of the President to sign the amended Electoral Act, is it not a call to electoral anarchy? I think that the existing Electoral Act is robust enough to guarantee a free and fair election. Let me tell you, if a change comes, it will never be stopped. You can attempt to derail it, you cannot stop it. It is clear, they have failed and they must go. They will be voted out in February majority of Nigerians have said. So, no matter what they do, we have seen it before, they will go at the appropriate time, they will go. There is no amount of acrobatics. So, they will try, but they have lost the confidence of the Nigerian people. The goodwill has evaporated and nobody wants to remain in this poverty. A cross section of Nigerians has been accusing the APC of rigging the Ekiti and Osun elections. How prepared is PDP to guarde against this? The solution is for all of us to be vigilant. From the moment the sensitive and non-sensitive materials are being distributed, you insist on the right thing. You insist on seeing the result sheet because without the result sheet, you will not vote. They tried it in Rivers State, it did not work. We should go beyond just complaining, we must show that we desire a change and showing it. It is not to remain on our rolling chairs. You and I must register, make sure your PVC is intact, go to the field, convince your neighbours to go to the field and vote. Do not allow anybody to buy your vote for N5,000 or N10,000 or N15,000 as the case may be because of desperation. Insist that your vote must be counted, remain there as they count. That is why I said the existing electoral law is enough. INEC has said results will be posted at the polling unit. So, the people at the polling units must insist. After voting, the votes are counted and the result are posted on the polling unit. So, when the results are posted on the polling units, tell me, what name will now be announced in Abuja? It is what is pasted at the polling units that INEC will announce. So, everybody must wake up, because presently, it is bad for the lawyer, it is bad for the doctor, it is bad for the journalist, it is bad for the soldier, it is bad for the policeman. Even the APC, they are crying. So, everybody must wake up. What is happening in Nigeria is not ideal. This is not God’s vision for Nigeria. The giant of Africa has become a giant with a clay foot. How would you access the two major candidates, Atiku Abubakar and President Muhammadu Buhari? They are miles apart. It is like comparing day and night.  One knows what you are talking about, Atiku is urbane, Atiku is democratic, Atiku is sufficiently sophisticated, Atiku has experience. Atiku is a wealth creator. Atiku listens, and he will engage Nigerian people. The other one goes with a holier-than-thou mentality. He is the best, he is like a gift to Nigeria, without him there is no Nigeria, everything about the other one is hypocrisy. He will not talk to Nigerians. When Nigerians talk to him, he will pay deaf ears, go abroad and answer us. He is not accountable to Nigerians. That is not what democracy is all about.