Lagos – Players in the Nigerian aviation industry have advised the Federal Government to merge Arik Air and Aero Contractors to establish the proposed national carrier. This is as they said that no investor would invest in Arik Air in its present state with massive debts running into N300 billion. The stakeholders also said it would cost the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) about 30 years to recoup its debts. Speaking with Daily Independent at the weekend, Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd) insisted that it would be difficult for AMCON to get investors to buy into the airline in its present state, saying that government should rather merge the airline with Aero Contractors to form a national carrier. Arik Air was taken over from its original investors, led by Sir Joseph Arumemi-Ikhide, in February 2017, after alleged debts to financial institutions and other partners. Ojikutu declared that for AMCON to offset the N300 billion debt from the airline, it should be making a net profit of N10 billion annually for 30 years, stressing that this would be difficult for the corporation to achieve, especially when the current management suspended its entire long-haul routes. He also said AMCON did not have the resources to run an airline profitably. He said: “I did say that if they need to offset the N300 billion debt from the airline, you must be making a net profit of N10 billion annually for 30 years. I said it is going to be difficult. “AMCON does not have the resources to run that airline, especially when it suspended its international routes. With domestic operations alone, there is no way the airline can make that profit annually. “The only way they can make headway is for the government to merge Aero and Arik and turn them to either national or flag carrier, then bring in foreign technical partners. “You can’t run any airline at the moment in the country without foreign technical partners. Let the foreign technical partners buy about 30 to 40 percent of the shares, credible Nigerians would buy 20 percent and sell 30 percent to the public. “The federal and state governments should not have anything to do with the airline, but if they must, they must have nothing more than 10 percent of shares because we want to have a national carrier.” Ojikutu insisted that lack of financial discipline on the part of airline operators in the country would make it difficult for them to run an airline successfully. “Look at the history of Nigeria aviation, the only two airlines that have exceeded 40 to 50 years in this country are Nigeria Airways and Aero. Every other airline falls by the way side. The only other airline is probably ADC, which spent about 20 years. “Any other way, they are gone within five to 10 years, and why did Nigeria Airways and British Airways last so long? Because of the foreign technical partners they had initially. “Nigeria Airways was an offshoot of West African Airways, which was nurtured by the British people. It is that culture that they had for a very long time that made them to last so long,” he added. Industry expert and former Director of Engineering, Medview Airline, Lookman Animashaun, said the major reason AMCON took over Arik Air was to recover its money from the company. He noted that because of the airline’s debt burden, no investor would be interested in the airline, and if AMCON decided to manage the carrier, it would take it about 30 years to recover the money it invested in the airline, considering the airline’s turnover. Animashaun, therefore, suggested that the best option for AMCON and the Federal Government is “to establish a national carrier with the airline.” He said it would be a waste of resources and spending a longer time trying to establish a new national carrier when Arik Air and Aero Contractors, which were under the Federal Government management could be used to establish a national carrier. Animashaun explained that Arik Air had structure and it had a fleet, which government could maintain and put them back in the air and then grow a national airline from there. “Arik Air has structure, although AMCON claims it does not have. So my thinking is that there is no need starting a new national carrier; what government should do is to earmark funds and carry out maintenance of all the aircraft in the fleet and start the new national carrier. “This is the only window AMCON has because it cannot let go of the money it sank in the airline and managing the airline to get back the money through its revenues will take about 30 years because of the airlines profit margin. This is better and easier way out,” Animashaun said.