LAGOS – Last Sunday, the 2018/2019 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) finally kicked off after a lengthy delay. It was a huge relief for the players, organisers, journalists, as well as the fans who thronged various centres to catch the glimpse of domestic action that they have missed for a long time. The match-day one action across some of the centres that hosted events came with expectations even as the matches presented the real entertainment that had hitherto been non-existent since the NPFL was suspended due to nagging issues over six months ago. Meanwhile, the high point of results in the first day of the domestic action was El-Kanemi Warriors’ unexpected defeat of Akwa United at the Nest of Champions in Uyo. Looking to get all the three points and obviously not contended with a draw, Akwa United threw all men upfront in search for at least that lone goal that would lighten up the packed stadium. It was a decision that turned sour as goalkeeper, Ojo Olorunleke, in the 94th minute, left his line and went as far as the centre circle, urging his men on. His pass was intercepted by an El-Kanemi player, who located unmarked team mate. The latter fired a long range short inside an empty net. In Aba, Enyimba whipped MFM 2-0. From other results recorded on the first day of the match, Nasarawa United beat Abia Warriors 1-0 in Umuahia, even as Plateau United drew blank with visiting FC IfeanyiUbah. In Kano, Kano Pillars defeated Heartland 1-0, while Kwara United and Sunshine Stars played out a 1-1 draw in Ilorin. The sour point of the match-day one was an attack on the referee in the match involving Plateau United and FC IfeanyiUbah at the Rwan Pam Stadium in Jos. No sooner had Sam Agba, the centre referee, ended the match that the home fans invaded the pitch and attacked him. It was reported that they descended on Agba and molested him until very few security men at the arena rescued the hapless official. Commentators have totally condemned the actions of the home fans, who were thought to be more matured. Hooliganism at match venues had tended to take shine off the domestic league in the recent past. In some instances, both players and officials of the visiting team are molested and have had to spend days in the hospital. While Plateau United’s management had denied the attack, the Nigeria Referees Association (NRA) has admitted that Agba was attacked, who it was revealed, is in critical condition in the hospital. Kelechi Mejuobi, the publicity secretary of NRA, said Agba was still in a critical condition after the assault. “The NRA regrets the sad incident in Jos where Plateau United hosted IfeanyiUbah. After the encounter that ended scoreless, the match officials, especially the referee, Sam Agba, were beaten blue and black by suspected fans of the home side,” he said. “Reports reaching the NRA after the incident has it that the referees were unprotected after the home side failed to win and were left at the mercy of hooligans, who attacked them. The condition of the referee is critical,” he said. This is the time the LMC must stamp its authority and ensure that the belated season runs unhindered. The ugly incident in Jos must be stopped, even as the LMC must ensure that adequate security is provided at match venues. The clubs must hit the ground running because of the peculiar nature of the abridged season. With the abridged format this season where 12 teams are split into two groups, it’s not going to be business as usual, as three teams from each group (for a total of six) will make it to the championship playoffs to determine the league winner, while four teams from each group will be relegated to the Nigeria National League. Unlike a 20-team format, there’s very little room to make amends here. Things are set to get feisty in 2019, but it’s the hope that every team accepts their fate without causing needless drama when the decisive moment arrives. This is where various owners must come in. As revealed to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT by Mfon Udoh of Akwa United, so many factors like motivation and consistency would play huge roles in determining who wins the league at the end of the season.