Stanley Chiedu Egbon Iduwe is the Ika Federal Constituency candidate of the Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) for the 2019 election. He spoke to ISAAC ASABOR on why he considers himself the best man for the position. Excerpt: What motivated you to join party politics? I was motivated to join politics because it serves as a pedestal for me to stand on, and  contribute to the development of the people and constituency having realised that they are being short changed by the leaders they hoped would represent them at the National Assembly. This cyclical occurrence of short changing the people has become the hallmark since the democratic system. It is disheartening to see the people being deceived and raped by each passing political dispensation.  Firstly, I have seen that the people can no longer wait for issues that have been making them to be subjected to excruciating poverty to remain unaddressed. Of concern to me is the spiraling unemployment mostly affecting the youths. These are the youths we are looking up to as the leaders of tomorrow. The unemployment situation has pushed some of them into criminality like kidnapping, armed robbery and drug addiction. I want to represent the people of my constituency to demonstrate that to be a leader is not to resort to looting the treasury of funds meant for the betterment of the people. I want to be a true representative of my people as I understand what they need, and how such needs could be met through vibrancy in legislative activities. What informs your choice of Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) as a platform to realise your dream? Having appraised myself about the philosophy behind the formation of the parties registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), I could not resist joining MPN as it is a choice party. Its ideology clearly spells out the need to provide better services and engender progress. The party discountenanced imposition of candidates. This was witnessed across the country during the primary elections across. Mega Party encourages Nigerians to brace up for all-inclusive, responsive and responsible leadership as it plans to launch surprises in all the constituencies, from ward to the federal levels in the coming general elections.  By adopting Mega Party, I urge my supporters and supporters of the party nationally to key into its manifesto as they will not regret doing so. What are the dividends of democracy the incumbent representative failed to give the people that you want to provide if elected? The incumbent representative of my constituency at the lower house for eight years now has not done anything that one can say has made the people feel his leadership. He has frittered away his two tenures as a representative of the Ika Federal Constituency. There is no tangible federal presence in the constituency that would make the electorates to be proud of him. The incumbent has not maximised the mandate given to him. This is not a surprise as he was imposed on us. That is why I urge him to step down. I am optimistic that I would surpass his performance. He is not competent; and the people want him to quit for competent people like me.  He is being urged not to forcefully return to the House after wasting two tenures. I know that he has been overzealous to return to the House. I am adequately equipped to give the people a better representation, continue from where he stopped, and deliver quality leadership when voted in. Considering the importance the youths to nation building, what plans does your party have for them? The vision of our country lies in the hands of our youths. They are filled with tremendous and towering ambitions. It will be a great waste of human resources if youths are not given the opportunity to exercise their talents. Nigeria needs the youths to become better. Job creation is one of the several means we will use to empower youths in preparation for the future. I will create proper means of employment for youths and put smiles on their faces by creating platforms for them to engage in entrepreneurship.