Abuja – The Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal on Wednesday declined to grant an order stopping the trial of suspended Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT), citing his ruling in the cases of Senate President against the Federal Government as well as that of Olisa Metuh and his company, Destra Investment Nigeria Ltd, against the Federal Government. The appellate court gave the ruling in a motion on notice dated January 18, filed on behalf of Justice Onnoghen by Chief Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), wherein he prayed for an order of stay of proceedings of the CCT trial. The main appeal is seeking an order setting aside the ruling of Chairman of CCT, Justice Danladi Umar, on January 14, which directed that motions filed by lead counsel to the CJN, Wole Olanipekun (SAN), and the Federal Government’s counsel, Aliyu Umar, (SAN) be taken together. In a ruling on Wednesday, a three-man panel of the appellate court led by Justice Abdul Aboki held that in accordance with section 306 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, proceedings in a criminal charge cannot be stayed. The panel noted that the CCT has quasi-criminal jurisdictions and that the procedure observed in the country’s criminal justice system is also applicable in the tribunal. In a unanimous decision, the appellate court was of the opinion that an order for stay of proceedings is granted equitably and cannot be made in a vacuum. The appellate court cited the cases of the Senate President against the Federal Government, as well as that of Olisa Metuh and his company, Destra Investment Nigeria Ltd, against the Federal Government, wherein the issue of stay of proceedings was decided at the Supreme Court. The panel recalled that Justice Onnoghen had in his judgment in the two cases brought before the apex court held that in a criminal charge, stay of proceedings cannot be granted. In the appeal of Saraki, the three-man Appeal Court panel noted Justice Onnoghen’s position when he was of the view that based on the provision of section 306 of ACJA, stay of proceedings cannot be granted in a quasi-criminal charge. Consequently, the panel dismissed Justice Onnoghen’s motion on notice for stay of proceedings of his trial at the CCT and ordered that it be continued. However, the Court of Appeal stated that its earlier interlocutory injunction made on January 24 directing the Federal Government and the embattled Justice Onnoghen to maintain the status quo pending the outcome of Wednesday’s ruling has become “spent and is no longer in existence”. Though the Appeal Court agreed that a court has powers to grant stay of proceedings, however, Justice Aboki opined that in doing so, there must be proper evaluation of the affidavit evidence of parties involved in order to arrive at justice of the matter. Aboki held that after evaluation, “you juxtapose the findings with the guiding principle considered before a court could use its discretion to grant a stay of proceedings.” Consequently, “It is my humble view that the motion on notice filed by the appellant seeking stay of proceedings at the Code of Conduct Tribunal ought to be refused”. “It is hereby refused”, Justice Aboki held, adding that the matter has been adjourned to February 4 for hearing of the main appeal. Meanwhile, the third most senior justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Bode Rhodes Vivour, is being tipped to emerge the new Chief Justice of Nigeria. Following the petitions transmitted to the National Judicial Council (NJC) against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, and the acting CJN, Justice Tanko Mohammad, a source close to the council said the heat is now on the two top judicial officers. The petition against Onnoghen was written by Zikhrillahi Ibrahim of Resource Centre for Human Rights & Civil Education. While the one against Tanko Mohammad was filed before the NJC by Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative. Onnoghen and Mohammad have been given seven days each to respond to the petitions against them, while the NJC is expected to reconvene on February 11, for further deliberation and recommendation. “In view of the gravity of the matters involved, council abridged the usual response period from fourteen to seven working days for the Hon. Justices to respond”, the NJC said. Our source who pleaded anonymity said considering the weighty allegations levelled against Onnoghen on one hand, and Mohammad on the other, both jurists are likely to be axed, at least to calm down frayed nerves. Whereas Onnoghen could be recommended to recuse himself from headship of  NJC to face his criminal trial, which the Court of Appeal ordered on Wednesday that it should continue, Tanko Muhammad might be sanctioned for allowing himself to be sworn in as acting CJN, in view of the infraction on the constitution. In the event both men are recommended for varying degrees of sanction, the source said the next most senior jurist, Justice Vivour naturally becomes the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria. Vivour is from Lagos State.