Lagos – The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has declared that plans have reached an advanced stage for the installation of Category II Instrument Landing System (ILS) at the Maiduguri, Jos and Minna Airports. This is as the agency said that it recently commissioned the same instrument at the Benin Airport. A statement by Mr. Khalid Ebele, the General Manager, Public Affairs, NAMA said that this was revealed recently by Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, the Managing Director of the agency during the town hall meeting with staff of the agency in Lagos. The agency noted that the commissioning of the facilities would improve economic activities in those states. The statement hinted that the commissioning of ILS in Benin Airport for instance, was in line with an earlier pledge by the agency to upgrade navigational infrastructure in strategic airports across the country in a bid to boost socio-economic activities in such areas. He added further that the agency had equally installed and commissioned the ILS at Port Harcourt Airport, which was damaged by an aircraft last year. He emphasised that the flight commissioning, which was handled by Omni-Blue Aviation Ltd indicated that the newly installed landing aids were operating at optimal capacity. Akinkuotu informed staff that in line with management’s objective to maintain a healthy and productive workforce, the agency had concluded plans to enroll NAMA into the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) in the next two months, just as he assured the workers that the contentious issue of review of Condition of Service (COS) was being handled and would soon be concluded by government. The NAMA boss expressed gratitude to management and staff of the agency for the support and cooperation accorded him over the past two years of his ascendancy as managing director, saying that whatever successes his administration has recorded thus far, they could not have been without the individual and collective effort of the workers. While cautioning staff to desist from frivolous expenses, he enjoined them to “put in more effort to move NAMA to the next level,” stressing that the agency would recognise hard work by giving special awards to deserving members of staff.