A Senior Public Relation with Jumia,  Adeniyi Ogunfowoke speaking on the place of Nigeria in the industry in monetary terms, stated that the sector contributed approximately N2.3 billion to the GDP as a direct contribution and N6.2 billion as a total contribution to the GDP. Quoting from the Nigeria Hospitality Report published by Jumia, he said in Africa, Nigeria occupies the fourth position in earnings from the hospitality. In addition, a UNWTO report rated South Africa, Egypt and Morocco in the first three positions in that order. According to Ogunfowoke, failure to fully explore the diverse and innumerable opportunities in the hospitality industry had been the challenge Nigeria is facing. Speaking of available opportunities to drive the country’s GDP, he affirmed that the country has a good number of travel agencies that can serve not only the Nigeria market but also the international market. “Indeed, one of the popular travel agencies is Jumia’s hotel and flight marketplace where you can book hotels, flight and packages at the best available rate. “Nigeria has so many tourism destinations; some are yet to be explored while others are yet to be discovered. In-between, the attractions that have been discovered are barely toured or visited in the past. This is no longer the case. With the emergence of tour businesses like Tour2Nigeria, Irinajo, Social Prefect and TVP adventures, managed by young and vibrant Nigerians, more and more Nigerians are visiting these destinations,” he suggested. He urged the country to tap into museums, festivals and other cultural venues, saying “Museums are located in all of Nigeria’s geopolitical zones. “Some are Badagry Museum (Lagos), Gidan Makama Museum (Kano), National War Museum (Abia) and Slave History Museum (Calabar) among others. These museums have to be repositioned to attract visitors because they can be a source of income for the government. “For festivals, the country is blessed with a potpourri of festivals. From the Osun-Osogbo festival in the West to Calabar carnival in the South, Mmanwu & New Yam festival in the East and the Durbar in the North; Nigeria is home to colourful festivals and other cultural valuables,: he added. On tapping into concert and theatre venues, he made reference to the Lagos State Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr Steve Ayorinde, revealed that the tourism sector in the state recorded major success in the last quarter of 2018. According to him, Ayorinde revealed that the state earned an excess of N50bn in cash transactions, especially in weeks preceding and following the Yuletide season, saying that if other states in Nigeria can earn as much as what Lagos is earning from the hospitality industry, then the contributions of the sector to the GDP will be doubled. “To ensure that these opportunities are fully explored so that Nigeria’s hospitality industry will attract both local and international visitors, the government has to be committed to boosting tourism infrastructure and supporting businesses in the sector,” Ogunfowoke added.