Folashade Soule, Senior Research Associate, University of Oxford has given insight into how Nigeria and other African governments should negotiate better infrastructure deals with China, the leading infrastructure finance provider on the continent. The article, published in Quartz Africa Magazine, a guide to the important stories of innovation across the continent’s wide-ranging economies, talks about Africa’s infrastructure deals with Beijing, which is usually underpinned with the notion that African governments accept whatever terms they are offered, for fear that they might miss the opportunity. Consequently, China, as the leader finance provider for infrastructure had demonstrated this through a recent pledge of $60 billion (£47 billion), most of which is for infrastructure projects, including hydropower plants in Angola and Guinea, an oil refinery in Nigeria, and a new city in Egypt. According to Soule, when one looks closely at what happens on the ground, some African countries are much better at negotiating with the Chinese than others. She was however quick to observe that based on research findings into China funded infrastructure projects, African governments can learn from best practice in this area as well as having the best deals depending the need for African governments to involve all the relevant stakeholders in the negotiations, empowerment of the negotiators to avoid undue pressures. Other conditions to be met included, according to her is the need to keep the public onside, particularly with some negative perceptions about chinese products. This is according to her to avoid the risk of being denounced by the citizens as has happened in Kenya over the railway, for instance. There is also the need to increase knowledge of the participants through acquisition of formal and informal knowledge so that they can argue from the position of strength. She cited the projects to include, Railway projects in East Africa which appear to be a good example. In Kenya, the Standard Gauge Railway is the largest infrastructure project since independence from Britain in 1963. China Eximbank provided most of the finance for the first phase—472 kilometers of track between Nairobi and Mombasa – at a cost of $3.2 billion. In neighboring Ethiopia, an electric train line from Addis Ababa to Djibouti, which is also Chinese-financed, opened two years ago. The cost for this more expensive type of railway was $3.4 billion – for 756 kilometres. Kenya claims that its railway cost more for reasons like the terrain and the need to carry higher volumes of cargo. At the same time, however, many believe other issues to have been at play – including failures around the negotiation process. “My ongoing research into China funded infrastructure projects confirms African governments can learn from best practice in this area. The best deals depend on the process in Chinese deal-making, which tends to go like this: Beijing will begin by making financial pledges, often aimed at a number of countries; these are followed by meetings at state level between a Chinese delegation and the African head of state and their senior officials. Infrastructure projects under discussion have often already been passed over by Western donors. Once a project is broadly agreed, the relevant Chinese contractors, mostly state owned enterprises, will typically contact African civil servants in the relevant branches of government to get detailed negotiations underway – with support from the Chinese trade mission and local embassy. Topics to be discussed will include costs, but also the use of materials and workers; technology transfer; and the effect of national regulations in areas like labour, construction and the environment. In countries like Togo and Cameroon, key ministries like finance, planning or even the cabinet will lead the negotiation. In the likes of Benin and Senegal, the relevant technical ministries, such as transport or housing, will lead instead or take over. They are supposed to consult with departments like finance and planning, but they often press ahead on their own to speed up the process – sometimes without any experience of dealing with China. In practice, such deals can be less beneficial to the country in question. Where one arm of government is not clear about what another is doing, it increases the potential for corruption – there has been a corruption investigation in the case of the new Kenyan railway, for example, and I have been told during my research that this was also linked to coordination failures during the negotiations. In her submission, when all relevant government departments are involved in a negotiation, although it takes longer time, but the process is more coherent, however, and the resulting project is less likely to breach national regulations. In the area of empowering the negotiators, Soule says the intervention of the president or his senior advisors during negotiations are likely to be politically motivated – a need to fulfil electoral promises around infrastructure development, perhaps, or pressure from the Chinese authorities. “Where civil servant negotiators are being pressed to hurry up, it can mean that national regulations get ignored. In Benin, for example, during negotiations over road projects several years ago, the Chinese contractors were unhappy about certain conditions being imposed. Then president Yayi Boni agreed to intervene on their behalf to bypass national regulations in areas including labour and construction. Such situations are best avoided.” She said. However,, there are some outside interventions which can be positive. For instance, in Togo, Senegal and Tunisia, and the current government in Benin, there are examples of the cabinet hiring international law firms with experts who have worked in the Chinese government and its development banks. This can bridge the differences in Chinese and African negotiating styles. The Chinese, she further says, often adopts a take-it-or-leave-it approach. In many cases, Africans are not confrontational enough in return. They don’t appreciate that China has a surplus of domestically produced materials they are seeking to offload, for example. Wiser negotiators will play China off against other countries seeking to finance infrastructure projects on the continent, such as South Korea or the United Arab Emirates. According to her, China tends to be popular in Africa – more so than the US in around 60% of countries on the continent. Yet the public also sees negatives as many think their products are poor quality, while there is a growing perception that dealing with China tends to favour Chinese labourers. “African governments need to bear these concerns in mind. If not, they risk being denounced by the media or civil society organisations – as has happened in Kenya over the railway, for instance,” she added. African governments, she claims, are still “relatively new to dealing with China; they should take every opportunity to share lessons with one another. There is a role for African universities here. They should set up more centres of Asian studies to close the gap in information and knowledge. Some have argued in the past that many African governments fail to negotiate successfully with the Chinese because they lack a strategy. I actually see plenty stratagems and tactics on the African side. What is required is a more coordinated and coherent approach – something China has been working on from its own perspective. It is better for African governments to have no deal than a bad deal. With the right approach, they can achieve much more than is often thought to be the case,” she said.