Lagos – Gernot Rohr, Super Eagles Head Coach, has ruled out bench warmers from the team that will try to win the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations for a fourth time. The Franco-German, who spoke on Radio programme on Wednesday, said that only exceptionally good players playing regularly for their clubs, would be included the Super Eagles final list for this year’s tournament in Egypt. Rohr informed that he has a list of about 50 players that were under consideration and would be monitored by his assistants in the run to Egypt 2019, noting that he would not call bench-warmers. “The invitations will be based on what the players are doing with their clubs. If we see the best ones, the door will be open to them. “We want to invite those who are in top clubs, not those who are on the bench most of the time. We are monitoring them. “We already have good players in the team, but we will look at other good ones and we will invite those playing regularly in top clubs,” he said. Consequently, FC Porto of Portugal defender, Chidozie Awaziem as well as the Nwakali brothers, Chidiebere and Kelechi, might be affected in the latest plans of the Super Eagles handler. Awaziem has found the going tough back at Porto, despite a brilliant spell on loan last season at FC Nantes of France, while Kelechi Nwakali is also struggling in the Portuguese club’s second team. Chidiebere, is facing an even gloomier situation, as he has been club hunting since the last quarter of 2018, after falling out with his last club. “We will not invite someone who is on the bench at Porto (Awaziem), or the Nwakali brothers that are playing in the second team,” Rohr said. It will be recalled that Super Eagles captain, John Mikel Obi, is making frantic efforts to get a good club and a starting shirt to be able to be part of Rohr’s programme for AFCON 2019, while there are other top stars of the team fighting hard to be in good shape for the forthcoming AFCON in Egypt. Nigeria with a match at hand on March 22 against Seychelles have qualified for the Nations Cup and Amaju Pinnick, President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has reiterated that the team would go all out for the title at this year’s edition of the championship. Pinnick said after winning the title three times, it would only be good if the country wins the title this year to close the gap on other winners like Egypt and Ghana.