Temidayo Akinsuyi, Innocent Oweh and Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – The Federal Government has asked the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) to freeze five bank accounts belonging to Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen. A letter from the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation said the restriction should be in place pending the determination of the case against Onnoghen at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT). The demand was based on the Presidential Executive order No. 6 enacted on July 5, 2018. His targeted accounts are with at Standard Chartered Bank. “I am directed by Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, the Honourable Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice to request that you, pursuant to the Presidential Executive Order No. 6 of 2018, forthwith restrict normal banking operations on certain accounts belonging to Hon. Justice Walter Onnoghen pending final determination of the case against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT/ABJ/1/19,” read the letter signed by Abiodun Aikomo on behalf of Abubakar Malami, the Attorney-General of the Federation. “These accounts are as follows: a. Account No. 5001062686 (Euro), Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) b. Account No 5001062679 (Pound Sterling), SCB c. Account No 0001062650 (Dollar), SCB d. Account No 0001062667 (Naira) SCB, and e Account No 5000162693 (Naira) “Please accept the assurances of the esteem of the honourable attorney general of the federation and minister of justice.” It’s Regrettable Onnoghen Has To Face Trial — Osinbajo Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday absolved his principal, President Muhammadu Buhari, of prior knowledge of the allegations against the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, for which he is facing trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal. Osinbajo, who indirectly endorsed the trial of the Chief Justice, said he regretted the fact that his senior legal colleague was going through trial before the Code of Conduct Tribunal for non-declaration of assets, noting that it had become an issue for controversy because the general election was fast approaching. According to the vice president, it was not surprising that Nigerians would attach political sentiment to the matter, but he insisted that Buhari was ignorant of the issues and only got to know of the allegations on Saturday evening. Osinbajo gave this account while responding to questions from reporters at a one day conference organised by Online Publishers Association of Nigeria (OPAN) with the theme, ‘Free Press and Objective Reporting in the 2019 Election Year’. “I must tell you in clear terms that President Muhammadu Buhari, his whole approach is that institutions should just do their work, I can tell you for a fact that he did not even know about this until Saturday evening. “He did not even know that there was going to be any kind of trial until Saturday evening. He has said categorically don’t interfere with whatever institutions are doing, sometimes it has consequences such as we have today, such that people say how can such an important person be subjected to trial without the Federal Government, but I can tell you without any equivocation that he is not aware. “Because it’s a specific instruction he gave, so even when somebody else comes such as a public officer such as Magu of EFCC and says one thing or the other, he would say no, no, Mr. President has said I can do my work.” The CJN is facing trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal for allegations bordering on non-declaration of assets and operation of domiciliary accounts in foreign currency. Lamenting the situation, Osinbajo said he would rather not have a situation where his colleagues would have to face trial over alleged financial misdemeanour. He said, “In the case of CCB, the chairman of the CCB, where these things are reported to, is completely new; he is barely three weeks on the job but the specific instructions to him is, if you receive a petition, whatever it is go through the due process and sometimes when people ask that question, my answer to it is even as the second in command, as they say as VP, but that is the approach that the president had taken, that if there is a credible information go through it. “Sometimes, when they even ask how come this and that person has not been tried, he says the time will come when somebody or whoever it is will face trial because the wheels of justice, as they say, will roll. So, my take is that I will rather not have a situation where senior members of my profession will be tried for an offence. “I will rather not have that kind of situation, so I don’t feel particularly good about it; as a matter of fact, I feel very sad that it’s going on at all, that is my position on this. “I want to just say this is the way it works in other countries and this is what we have tried to establish in the past two and half years.” The vice president also took a swipe at online media practitioners, insisting they were fast losing credibility as information disseminators because they had failed to cross check facts before publication on social platforms. He lamented that the trend had resulted in the spread of fake news which most times lead to unnecessary or avoidable litigations. He advocated strong regulations if the tide must be changed for good. “The free press has arrived at its best possible time and also possibly its worst time. It is the best time for the free press because digital technology and the internet have landed; it is the ultimate definition of freedom of expression: all of us can have access to and even own a medium. Any medium of communication is available to us now. “But it also means anyone, even a crazy person, an anarchist, can use any medium on the internet to spread inciting messages, hate speech, distorted facts, or just false news, or fake news as it is called today. The media then can be either a responsible gatekeeper or an enabler of fake news. “At the moment, the latter sadly appears to be the case – mainly because no importance is attached to fact-checking. More often than not, the media, and new media in particular with more damaging effect have proven to be enablers and amplifiers of unverified information and news. Some of it is harmless and really may not have much of an impact. There is a considerable amount of it that can create harm. “So, a situation in which all that is reported is what people said, without bringing scrutiny to the issues at stake, is untenable. “If a politician, for example, cites a figure say, Nigeria’s debt profile is $30 trillion, or poverty rate is 100%, while it is your duty to report what has been said, it is even more important to situate it within the context of the actual, verifiable, truth. What is the truth? Because the truth is also verifiable. “This applies also to statements that might be deemed offensive, perhaps to an ethnic or religious group – what is known as hate speech,” he added. Nobody Can Get Justice Against CJN At NJC  — Sagay Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), has described as unserious those claiming that the trial of Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, before the Code of Conduct Tribunal for non-declaration of assets should have been taken before the National Judicial Council (NJC). In a statement titled, ‘The Judiciary and Code of Conduct Tribunal’, Sagay, while analysing the situation, said as Chairman of the NJC, nobody can get justice against the CJN, who by virtue of his position also appoints 20 out of 23 members who constitute the NJC. “Almost all the Senior Advocates of Nigeria have argued that even in a case involving the breach of the Code of Conduct, for which the law has already made express provisions, the matter shall be taken to the National Judicial Council rather than to the Code of Conduct Tribunal. They can’t be serious. “They must obviously be speaking tongue in cheek. Even a baby, three months old, must realise that no one can get justice against the Chief Justice of Nigeria at the NJC. The CJN is not only the Chairman of the NJC, he is also the appointor of 20 out of the NJC’s 23 members. The CJN is the NJC. “Only a grossly ignorant man or an extremely mischievous one could seriously suggest that a matter involving the CJN should be brought before the NJC for adjudication. “Therefore, the whole idea of taking the present case to the NJC is a nonstarter. For that would make the CJN the Chief Judge of his own case; a clear violation, not only of the constitution, but also of a long standing common law principle coming all the way from Magna Carter in the year 1215.” He added: “One final point of interest is that by the very logic of the powers of the NJC, cases arising out of a breach of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act and the Code of Conduct provision in the constitution cannot come before the NJC. “If the NJC first decides the matter before the defendant is arraigned in court or at the tribunal, what happens if the NJC finds the defendant liable and removes him from office as a judge? “In that case, he ceases to be a judicial officer as well as a public officer. Can he therefore be tried as a public officer before the Code of Conduct Tribunal? “The answer is no, because he is no longer a public officer. The extant provisions of the constitution and the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act would be rendered nugatory, by a prior NJC involvement.” CUPP Says It Has Recording Of Plot Against CJN Meanwhile, the Coalition of United Political Parties on Wednesday alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari had directed the seizure of all personal and family financial assets of Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, the spokesman of CUPP, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, gave out documents showing that the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, actually directed the seizure of Onnoghen’s financial assets. According to the documents dated January 14, 2019, signed by Abiodun Aikomo for the AGF, the AGF said normal banking operations on certain accounts belonging to Onnoghen should be restricted. Ugochinyere said: “The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has uncovered yet another dastardly plot by the Buhari led APC government to harm the Chief Justice of Nigeria for refusing to compromise the composition of the post 2019 election Supreme Court Appeal Tribunal. “Lobbying of all sorts by the APC chieftains to get the Chief Justice of Nigeria to accept to compromise the Presidential Election Appeal Tribunal and to compose the governorship election Supreme Court Appeal Tribunal in Rivers State, Akwa Ibom State, Delta State, Lagos State, Benue State, Imo State, Kwara State, Plateau State, Kaduna State, Abia State, and Sokoto State with their preferred choices of justices did not succeed as the Chief Justice had remained faithful to his oath of office and said, by his actions, that the Supreme Court was neither going to be partisan nor partial and would not consider such requests. “The current ordeal of the Honourable Chief Justice will not end soon. He is up against people who are desperate and who do not care if the engine of state grinds to a halt. They have taken this dastardly attack to a new low by freezing all the family assets of the family of the CJN. “We are in possession of the letter from the Attorney General of the Federation to this effect. This onslaught on the judiciary is as undemocratic as it is unconstitutional. This is capable of further derailing our democracy as such brazen violation of the Constitution is only tantamount to treason.”