Lagos – Unions in Nigeria’s aviation industry have threatened to picket the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) over its failure to promote staff and implement their welfare packages as agreed with them over a year ago. The unions: Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) and National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), warned that if the new Condition of Service (CoS) were not implemented before Wednesday, they would not hesitate to picket the agency indefinitely. The unions accused the management of the regulatory agency of taking them for granted with regards to the issues of promotion of staff. Speaking on the issue, Lucky Izebhokun, chairman, Joint Action Committee, NCAA and chairman NUATE, NCAA branch, declared that the agency might begin the New Year with indefinite strike. Izebhokun hinted that the refusal of the management of NCAA to implement the agreement it reached with them several months ago had dampened the morale of the workers, who he said were ready to down tools from Wednesday. He said: “The management has so much relegated the staff of NCAA so much so that they will be employing, doing secondment  and transfer people from other organisations to come and boss us, we have had issues with people being transferred from the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) especially, because there is no promotion in NCAA. We have told the management that we can no longer accept that. “We wrote them, we have to do due diligence, we wrote them and told that within the next three weeks if you do not give our people promotion, we are talking about promotion from Levels 14 to 15 and 16 that is senior management cadre, if you don’t promote them there will be serious issues.” He emphasised that if the management’s excesses were not curtailed, it would spiral down to the lower cadre. He also charged the entire staff of NCAA to pass a vote of no confidence on the leadership of the agency from January 2, 2019. Comrade Ayodele Sofolayan, Chairman ATSSSAN, NCAA branch, also confirmed the development with our correspondent.