ASABA – Lt Tukur Burutai, Chief of Army Staff, yesterday vowed that the inauguration of the 63 Division in Asaba, Delta State, and flag-off of Python Dance 111 (Egwe-Eke) was to swallow political thugs, miscreants and terrorists. This might not be unconnected with his statement that the Python Dance 111 was geared towards assuring law-abiding citizens the resolve of the army to provide adequate security and safety as the nation approaches the 2019 general election. Burutai, who was represented by Major-General Jamil Sarham, General Officer Commanding (G.O.C), 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Enugu, equally warned that the activities of terrorists were capable of impeding military operations and demoralising troops. He gave stern warning to purveyors of fake news and other unpatriotic elements. “At the end of exercise Egwe-Eke111, the python must have swallowed all bandits, rustlers, terrorists, kidnappers, robbers and militants in the country. The python will also have swallowed thugs and other miscreants that may raise their ugly heads”. Burutai stressed that the Operation Python Dance 111 was a training package in “internal security operations, clearance operations, emergency management, rescue operations, roadblock and cordon and search and anti-kidnapping.” He stressed that reportage of national security is not an all comers affairs, adding that anyone found wanting is guilty of breaching the Official Secrets Act 1962. He appealed to Nigerians to be mindful of the fact that “this is the only country that we have and no effort should be spared to save it from plans of unpatriotic elements fighting to pull the country down. According to the COAS, the inauguration of the 63 Division was a demonstration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s desire to have adequate and equitable establishment of the Nigeria Army formations and needs across the country. He said the establishment of three brigades under the 6 Division was informed by the need to have a formidable response mechanism and checkmate the myriad of security challenges to national assets and interest in the Niger-Delta and the Gulf of Guinea. He urged stakeholders “to look in the way of the brigade to fast track its growth and development while the federal government makes budgetary provisions for the new division.” He boasted that exercise Crocodile 111, which was conducted in the Niger Delta region, had reduced illegal oil bunkering, pipeline vandalism, kidnapping and other criminal activities.