P/Harcourt – I rate youths last week vented their spleen to drive home the extent of their impatience over the inexplicable delay in the commencement of the cleanup of the heavily impacted environment of the oil-rich ancient Ogoni kingdom. The decades-long spill was caused by petro-dollars international oil companies, IOCs operating in that part of Rivers state. Ogoni, indeed, is the most economically viable kingdom among the three major ethnic nationalities that make up Rivers State. It is very rich in everything, yet extremely poor in all things. Politically, Ogoni is a weeping child. Socially, it is suppressed. Therefore, the agitation for the creation of Ogoni, later, Bori state took its premise from the understanding that such a new state, if created, would have the capacity to develop on a faster lane and rescue its people from both mental and political slavery. Ogoni has been in the news often, in most cases, on the negative. For instance, on Tuesday, January 15, 2019 some irate youths from K-Dere community in Gokana local government area of the state burnt down a mini bus belonging to the Hydrocarbon Pollution and Remediation Project, HYPREP, which is the agency saddled with the responsibilities of the cleanup exercise. An eyewitness account said that trouble started barely twenty minutes after the long convoy of the HYPREP Coordinator, Dr Mavin Dekil, arrived the community to meet with the Chiefs and community leaders of the area. The witness said the entire atmosphere became charged minutes after the Dekil started to address the leaders of the community on the mission of the agency to the community. The youths who were not happy that they have been sidelined in the project became restive and threatened to stop the event; hence, they set the bus on fire destroying working tools like laptops and other materials belonging to Journalists on duty. It was also later discovered that the anger of the youths was mainly due to the inability of the Federal Government to speed up the cleanup process three years after it was colorfully flagged off by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo at Bodo in June 2, 2016. Reacting to the incident, the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP) said though the incident regarding the burning of a bus owned by HYPREP was a tragedy, the Federal Government and HYPREP must realise that in order for the cleanup exercise to be successful, they must engage the Ogoni people from the beginning of the project to the end of it. More so, they must select contractors who will not be biased and who understand the UNEP requirements in full and the total needs of the Ogoni people.  “We must design a comprehensive plan and program that will include: oil spill cleanup, infrastructure building, installation of potable water piping, economic development, healthcare, education among others”, said Fegalo Nsuke, a factional President of MOSOP. Rather than address these fundamental needs, the government has been desperate to award contracts ahead of the 2019 elections. It is unfortunate that the selection of contractors has been more like political patronages, a situation where some of those selected, as contractors do not even know the road leading to Ogoni. Fegalo said that the conduct of HYPREP in the implementation of the cleanup process has completely alienated the people and focused on private and monetary benefits rather than Ogoni interests. For instance, He said, “Over one billion naira had been spent on communication, yet the local people do not know what HYPREP is doing in Ogoni. Wouldn’t it have been better to invest such huge amount on water provision for the people? It is regrettable that the government failed to heed the advice of MOSOP on the need for integrity and diligence in the implementation process. “The government and HYPREP think the Ogoni people do not have access to the UNEP report or are simply ignorant about their needs and what should be done about the UNEP recommendations”. He wants the local people to be involved in every stage including the rights to select contractors acceptable to them and in line with the local content laws. This will require robust engagement to come up with a comprehensive plan on development and cleaning of the pollution. The action of the youths in burning the bus was a clear indication that the Ogoni people are dissatisfied with the government over the cleanup implementation and if the issues are not properly addressed by involving the people in every phase, there could be stronger resistance from the communities. Earlier last week, the Elders Forum in Ogoni known as Gbo Kabaari Ogoni, GKO, was quoted as saying that the ongoing cleanup was “opaque” and geared towards “scoring cheap public relations“ by the All Progressives Congress, APC, led Federal Government of President Muhammadu Buhari. That is why Bennett Birabi and Desmond Nbete, Chairman and Secretary of the Forum, respectively, explained at a briefing with journalists last Monday at the Ernest Ikoli Press Centre in Port Harcourt, Rivers state that the Forum was saddened by the slow process. The group expressed sadness at the process so far, noting that nothing had been done about emergency measures as contained in the United Nations Environmental Program, UNEP, report of 2011. The Elders Forum fears that the cleanup project might have been converted to a political pipe where money could be withdrawn by some privileged persons to lubricate their political wheels even as the 2019 general elections is just some few weeks to go. According to the elders, this becomes worrisome, as the amount so far released by the IOCs has not been explained to the local people how their money has been spent and what is left in the coffers for them. Even if spent at all, the people have not seen any significant thing to convince them that about $187 million has gone out so far. Chief Joseph Oluji, the head of Ewu community, Aleto in Eleme, Local Government Area, Rivers State, reacted that the Federal Government pronouncement to clean Ogoni devastated land was a political sophistry; full of lies. “This is to win Ogoni votes. This is a promise over the years the government of president Buhari has not fulfilled, why now that he is going for another term? Ogonis and we are the same, suffering from environmental pollution. I am not against Buhari as a person but his administration is inimical to our survival. However, we will be thankful to him if the UNEP recommendation is implemented to the fullest. On his part, Alozie Elekwakchi, a Port Harcourt based businessman of over 20 years standing said that the Federal Government pronouncement to clean the Ogoni polluted land was a mere political gimmick, not to be trusted. He questioned why the government kept the UNEP report under carpet till now when elections are just a few weeks away. “This is not the Buhari my father told me about. I was told that he was a man of integrity; a man of his words, but I am seeing a different Buhari,” he said. Also burning with fury, Emeka Nnwankwo, an oil dealer in his reaction said the Buhari-led government was ”garbage of lies”. He wondered why an international environmental report (UNEP) be kept under carpet by the Buhari administration till date just to fool the Ogonis and Rivers State people to win their votes. It will be recalled that just a few days after Sunday INDEPENDENT made a comprehensive report on the anger of the environmental activists across Nigeria over the delay in the commencement of the cleanup exercise proper, the minister for Environment, Suleiman Hassan and the leadership of HYPREP swung into action by handing over the sites of the project to contractors at Eleme. Hassan assured the people of Ogale, Alode and Ibubu Communities in Eleme local government area of Rivers State last week of Federal Government’s commitments to the cleanup process of the oil impacted sites in the area. The minister made the statement while handing over of the sites to contractors handling the remediation of impacted sites in Ogoni land. He restated President Buhari’s commitments in delivering on his electioneering campaign promises in 2015 to the people of Ogoni, hence, the establishment of HYPREP to midwife the cleanup processes. The project coordinator of HYPREP, Dr Malvin Dekil promised that the land would be restored back to its previous uses at the end of the cleanup exercise, saying that the remediation process was expected to last for the period of six months while the supervision will run for one year. The paramount rulers of Ogale Community, Chief Bebe Okpabe and that of Alode community, Chief Nehemiah Owaja thanked President Mohammadu Buhari for keeping to his promise and assured that they will cooperate with the contractors. Responding on behalf of the contractors, Earth-pro services  limited maintained that their mandate was on  emergency spill response, soil and ground  water remediation, contaminated sites assessment, reclamation, waste management and decommissioning. He assured the people that at the end of the exercise, the young people engaged in the course of the job will become professionals. “We are here to hand over the projects to the hands of the traditional institutions, the hands of youths and the community, that means we are expecting no destruction, the royal highnesses have assured us 250 percent, we are sure that our contractors are going to be protected and we have also received assurances from our contractors further to their competencies which was established before they were give the assignment. “We have also received assurances of quick delivery of this project’s and peaceful cooperation with their host communities. This is a promise delivered by Mr. President, the President of Federal Republic of Nigeria to clean up Ogoni land”, the minister said. The project coordinator, Dr Marvin Dekil said, “The contractors are expected to stay here in the site within the period of six months but the monitoring period will be up to one year.” But one man that will not be cajoled into believing that the Federal Government is serious about the cleanup of the Ogoni land is the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike. He said, “While we support the fight against insurgency, nothing is worse than environmental pollution.  We suffer because we are allowing Nigeria to survive.  We are suffering for Nigeria to survive.  It is through our oil that Nigeria is surviving. “We are dying because we are keeping the country alive.  Nobody wants to give us the attention required. These people who are suffering because of the nation’s survival, why not give them priority to survive? ” Wike wants the Federal Government to withdraw funds from the Excess Crude Account to address the environmental challenges in Ogoni-land. The governor said it should be done in same manner that funds were withdrawn to tackle insurgency in the northeast. “They took $1billion from the Excess Crude Accounts to fight insurgency.  I say they should take $500million from the Excess Crude Accounts for the Ogoni cleanup exercise.” Wike strongly believes, like most Rivers people, that the Ogoni cleanup exercise has been highly politicized, pointing out that the Ministry of Environment  is handing over sites to contractors three years after Vice President Yemi Osinbajo flagged off the exercise. He said the handing over of the contracts was hurriedly done just as elections fast approach. “Three years ago, the President represented by the Vice President flagged off the clean up during the rerun elections. One month to the general elections, the Minister of Environment has come to hand over the sites. “If I tell you I believe sincerely that you people want to clean up Ogoni land, I am telling you lies. Surprise me and prove me wrong “, he said. He called on the Minister of Environment to investigate cases of deduction of funds from contracts awarded for the cleanup exercise. The governor urged the Federal Ministry of Environment to ensure the benefiting communities were patronized during the cleanup and all approved steps taken by HYPREP. It will be recalled that the flag off of the cleanup ceremony at Bodo in June 2016 preceded the Legislative re-elections in Rivers State, which was scheduled in December of that same year. It turned out to be that as the state government was constructing the Sapeanwa road which is about the only major route that connects the Ogoniland with Port Harcourt, APC government was also desperate on how to counter the allure, hence, the flag off of the cleanup project.