The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council on Saturday said it has suspended its presidential campaign for three days in protest of the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. This is contained in a statement issued by the National Chairman of the party and Co-chairman of its Presidential Campaign Council, Mr Uche Secondus, on the party’s twitter handle @officialPDPnig on Saturday. Reacting to the development, the Federal Government says the directive by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) suspending its campaign to protest the suspension of Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, is a face saving measure “because the party’s campaign died long ago.’’ Lai Mohammed, Minister Minister of Information and Culture, who faulted the party’s action in an in interview with newsmen on Saturday in Ilorin, said “Which campaign did they suspend? Is it the campaign that died a long time ago? Let me tell everybody that their campaign was long dead. “What is happening is that they are looking for a face saving device to say that they suspended a campaign that died a long time ago. “In any case, is the suspended CJN a member of their party? Why is the PDP crying more than the bereaved? I don’t understand, they should give us a break,” he said. Secondus said that the suspension of its campaign activities was in solidarity with Nigerians in collective rejection of the assault against democratic order. The PDP Presidential Campaign was scheduled to be in Benue State on Saturday. President Buhari on Friday suspended Onnoghen, pending the completion of his trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) and swore in Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed, the most senior Supreme Court Justice, as the acting CJN. According to the president, the suspension was as a result of the ongoing trial of Onnoghen by the CCT and subsequent order of the tribunal directing him to suspend the CJN, pending the completion of his trial. The PDP had earlier released a statement to reject the appointment of acting CJN. Meanwhile, Mohammed has defended the suspension of Onnoghen saying critics ignored the real issues, which concern corruption and the need to protect the judiciary. He said: “Anybody who read the address of the president yesterday will know that he laid out the point and reasons for the action. “The first is that there are additional evidence revealing that the suspended CJN refused to declare millions of dollars in his possession “More worrisome is the fact that when the suspended CJN was confronted with the petition that he failed to declare his asset, he admitted adducing the reason that he forgot. “The people that are crying tyranny and dictatorship should ask where the suspended CJN amass several millions of dollars which he failed to declare. “We are talking about fighting corruption here. Are those people who are crying wolf saying we should condone corruption?’’ He said the critics were being “hypocritical and insincere” to say that it was right for a CJN to be in possession of millions of dollars unaccounted for and not declared as required by law. Mohammed said contrary to the opinions of some critics, the president acted legally by obeying the directive of a court of competent jurisdiction to suspend the CJN. The minister stressed that the president’s suspension of the CJN was sequel to the order of a competent court and the critics should look beyond sentiments.