LAGOS – Four members of the Inspector General of Police, IG Ibrahim Idris’ Intelligence Response Team have bagged gallantry award for fighting hardened criminals in the South Western part of the country. Among the recipients of the award which was given by Society For Public Orientation Against Drug and Crime (SPODAC) are CSP Rieninwa, who is the Coordinator/ Sector Commander, South West Zone, IRT, his second-in-command, Ugowe Joel, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Kachalla Ali, a Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP), and DSP Balogun Lateef. Speaking on the award, Comrade Fidelis Ogar, national coordinator of SPODAC, said the organisation presented the award in recognition to officers who have performed creditably well in crime fighting and prevention. According to him, the officer-in-charge of the zone was singled out for effective leadership towards crime fighting and prevention, adding that along the line, other members of the team were recommended for the award. Speaking on behalf of the awardees, CSP Rieninwa said: “I and the other members of the team that received award today feel very happy. This is a form of motivation, which is a challenge for us to work harder.This is because to whom much is given, much is expected.We assure you that we will double our effort, even though there is no society without crime and not possible to totally eradicate crime in the society. We will continue to try our best in fighting crime to bring it to the lowest minimum.For this award that is given to us on 31st December, being the last day of the year 2018, we are assuring not only the society but the entire country that I and members of my team will do better and ensure that the society, from the presidency, to the lowest person will feel the impact of our job.” Rieninwa thanked the IGP Idris, the national head of IRT, DCP Kyari and his Second-in-Command for equipping the IRT all over the Federation and providing enabling environment for them to perform maximally. LG Chairperson Tasks Women On Political Participation Mrs Morenike Alaka, the Caretaker Chairperson, Okitipupa Local Government Area (LGA) of Ondo State, on Thursday, called for more participation of women in politics. The caretaker chairperson said that women were shying away from their civic responsibility by not participating in politics and seeking political offices. Alaka added that one major plan she had for 2019 was to create more awareness and enlightenment for women to understand their civic responsibility of participating in politics. ”Our women are not participating actively in politics and I think the reason for this is because they do not understand their rights as citizens of this country. ”One focal point we have for this year is to create more awareness for women to understand their roles of participating in politics and vying for political offices,” she said. Alaka was returned as the council chairperson when Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu released the names of new Caretaker Committee Chairmen for the 18 LGAs in December 2018.