Prophet Jeremiah Omoto Fufeyin is the General Overseer/Founder, Christ Mercy Land Deliverance Ministry, Effurun, Delta State. In this interview with select journalists, spoke on the coming general elections and the need for politicians to eschew bitterness. JOHN AMUDO brings the excerpts: Sir what is your prediction about this year’s general elections and the country at large? Well, I must say that God Almighty will personally intervene in the much talked about general elections. Besides, the exercise will be peaceful. Although, one cannot rule out pockets of crises here and there, but the exercise will come and go as usual, especially the presidential election. How do you see the political situation in the country, especially the 2019 general elections? God has always revealed to me that Nigeria is a blessed country, full of abundant human resources. Don’t forget that Nigeria is the largest Black Country in the world and the biggest democratic nation in Africa. My strong appeal to our politicians is that they should play the game decently and ensure free and fair election, devoid of rancor and bitterness. We should remember that we are one indivisible country and people. We should be our brothers’ keeper in the sense that after the elections, life continues. In fact, we will continue to embrace peace and show the world that Nigeria has come of age. It is unnecessary that we continue killing and maiming ourselves all in the name of politics. I am a pastor and not politician. We wholeheartedly accept the end result of the exercise. We should not overheat the polity, rather we should consolidate on the abundant peace we are already enjoying. What role should clergy men play in ensuring a peaceful exercise? I am convinced that all men of God are already working hard, praying fervently to ensure that the exercise is  a peaceful political transition. God has already told me that there is going to be a peaceful exercise, where no man shall be oppressed and usher in a non-violent exercise throughout the period. This mission is less than ten years old, how would you describe the increasing population within this short period? Frankly speaking, it is the work of God because people that come here always express shock over the rapid growth of the church. But, I must say that God is really working and I don’t know the end of where God will take us to. Honestly speaking, I believe that God will complete the work he has started. Since we relocated to this permanent site, God has been faithful to us. However, we are going to do more work that will further transform this place. In the next few months, my dream of elevating this place to international standard will manifest. Howevr, I spend my money mostly on charity because I am convinced beyond doubt that it is God that is behind this wonderful transformation. How is your relationship with Prophet T.B. Joshua, who you have always praised for his good works for mankind? Our relationship is cordial because we are all working for salvation of souls. I must tell you that all men of God are one and it is so because we pray always for the sustenance of peace at all times. Two years ago, the population of the church was said to be about 8,000. What is its present population? Presently, we are over 40,000 and to the glory of God, we are increasing everyday. You see, God is awesome in so many ways. I want people to come and receive their blessings. What makes you to help the less privileged? Again, I can say that God is really helping us,  hence, we are also assisting people. In December 2018, I spent well over N30 million to bless both my workers and the needy. One thing is certain and that is if politicians fail to help the needy, I believe that men of God whom God has blessed can as well assist the needy in the society. It is said in the Bible that the rich should help both the workers in God’s vineyard and the needy, especially the workers who are the pillars that are supporting the men of God. This present location used to be a criminally infested area where all the criminals regard as their operational base. How were you able to transform the area within five years? Yes, when I came here, I gathered both the youths and the elderly and preach peace to all of them. Besides, I also encouraged them with a lot of gifts, including the Bible and other numerous gestures. You can see that this place has been transformed into commercial area where people sell a lot of things; mostly foodstuffs. In fact, it has become beehive of activities. I am determined to further transform this place and make it one of the best places in the state. How many people are working under you now? By God’s grace, there are over 1,000 people on the church’s payroll, both the youths and other men of God. One of the greatest thing is that a lot of jobless people have been put off the street. For instance, Effurun axis in Uvwie Local Government Area that used to be criminally infested area, is now free from all forms of crimes. People go about their normal business. Even at night, people move freely and to God be the glory, both the revered and highly respected king of the area, His Royal Majesty Emmanuel Sideso, Abe I of Uvwie Kingdom and the good people of the area are behind us praying fervently for the sustainability of the ministry. What is the motivating factor behind the numerous assistance you are rendering to people? I must say without mincing words that assisting the needy is part of my calling. I don’t fail to help the poor because God instructed me to do so. Above all, I don’t want to incur the wrath of God who called me to establish this ministry. In retrospect, this area was where I attempted to take my life when I could not pay a debt of N7,500 hence I decided to establish the church here, and you can see how far we have grown within a short period. I am not the best in the word. But, by the grace of God, I have been able to attain this height. In fact, God is awesome. Besides, I don’t want to misuse this golden opportunity God has given me, hence,  I always give out to help people who are in need. Are you going to sustain the good work you are doing, by assisting the needy in the society? Well, I must tell you that I have not started because I must continue to do the work God has sent me.