ABUJA – Maikanti Baru, the Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), on Monday, disclosed that the feasibility study for the construction of gas pipeline from Nigeria to Morocco has been concluded. Baru, who gave the hint at the opening ceremony of Nigeria International Petroleum Summit in Abuja, said it would traverse at least 15 West African countries and connect the existing Europe gas pipeline. He stated that Final Investment Decision (FID) is currently ongoing, adding that it would help in the industrialisation of the countries involved. “We need to collaborate especially in the area of infrastructure. Today, Nigeria and Morocco are collaborating to construct a gas pipeline that will traverse at least 15 West African countries and connect the existing Europe gas pipeline. “The feasibility study has been concluded and the pre-FID Greenfield optimisation study is currently ongoing. “This pipeline will help in the industrialisation of these countries. It will also meet the needs of consumers for heating and other uses. We gas as a fuel to take Africa to the next level. New gas discoveries have been recorded offshore Senegal, Mauritania, Mozambique and are in various stages of development,” he said. The NNPC boss said Nigeria is also targeting to take FID on LNG Train 7 this year. Baru urged African countries to collaborate and trade among each other not only in terms of oil and gas but also in other key sectors so that the multiplier effect is seen across our various economies. Also speaking, Ibe Kachikwu, the Minister of State for Petroleum and President of African Petroleum Producers Organisation, APPO, said Nigeria is working with other oil and gas producers in Africa, under the auspices of APPO to raise between $1 billion and $2 billion to finance energy projects and boost collaboration among African countries. Kachikwu said APPO members were looking at expanding the role of an existing financing body in the continent, which would be renamed African Energy Investment Corporation to undertake the function of energy financing. He said, “We are presently looking at expanding the role of a particular financing body we are going to be calling the African Energy Investment Corporation. The whole idea is to mobilise between $1 billion and $2 billion of resources to fund all the essentials necessary for us to properly collaborate.”