Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike in this interview with newsmen alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have concluded arrangement to rig the 2019 general elections to their favor. Wike who stated this in an interview in Port Harcourt also spoke on the disqualification of the APC from the elections and other sundry national issues. DANIEL ABIA brings the excerpts: On the disqualification of APC candidates in Rivers State, Is it possible that when it gets to appeal, it will turn things around? It cannot be turned around. The law that we practice today is that they did not have any lawful primaries. What happened that we felt that look you have to comply with the provisions of the law and of course if you look that in section 71 of the Electoral Act and then section 66(b) and section 221, section 106(d) and section 176 of 1999 constitution as amended, what we merely did was to look for interpretation, that look, for you to sponsor candidate for election, there must be a valid or lawful primaries. And so, if a court has said that APC did not conduct a lawful or valid primaries and should not participate in the general election. So, we are not talking about any case of APC candidate. No, we are talking about the compliance with the provisions of the law. So, your case wasn’t the APC. Why did you go to court? We are not talking about candidate of APC, we are talking about the law says, you must comply with certain provisions for you to participate in the general election. And the law says look, this party did not comply with the provisions of the law, and therefore, INEC if this party has not complied with the provisions of the law, can they still be recognized to participate in the 2019 general election? And this is what is provided in the Fourth Alteration of the 1999 constitution, No:21, Act 2017, which says that a political party can challenge INEC if INEC is not complying or carrying out what they are supposed to do. And that is why we came into. But, if this was any other political party, will the PDP have gone to court? If there is any other political party that has not complied with the provisions of the law and we know, of course, we will do this same thing. There is no special thing about it. We have complied, we have carried out our valid and lawful primaries, and so, we expect you as a political party to also comply. And if you don’t comply, you cannot participate with us. So, the APC is challenging the competence of the law here. How do you view that? But, we went to court merely for interpretation. But, you ask yourself, what type of interpretation? As we are saying, an interpretation of section 87 of the Electoral Act, 2010 as amended, section 221 sub-section 65(2b), section 106(b) and section 176 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic as amended, whether APC being a political party seeking to nominate or sponsor candidates for the 2019 general elections into this offices, they are entitled to nominate or sponsor, without having a valid or lawful primaries for its aspirants. The court should Interpret this sections of the law of the Electoral Act and the constitution. Two, in view of the electoral act and the constitution, can INEC still allow APC to participate in view of the fact that they have not complied with the provisions of the electoral act and the constitution of not having a valid and lawful primaries. Thirdly, in view of the judgment of the State High Court that nullified the primaries of APC, which means there were no primaries ab initio. Having nullified the primaries, can they still be allowed to feature in the 2019 election. Now, what is your own contention? Their contention is that, look, these are internal affairs of the party, that PDP has no business. But, we said no. It has gone beyond internal affairs of the party. We are not interested on who become your candidate, we are talking about you complying with the provisions of the law. At least, do comply with the provisions of the law and if you are not allow to participate. We are not saying that this should be your candidate. That is not our business. And in doing that, we came under, if you look our judgment of the Supreme Court. Look at page 16 of the judgment of the court. And it is important for people to understand not just necessarily when you hear story, you say, oooh, PDP took APC to court. Remember, on the 10th of October, 2018, the State High Court nullified the primaries of Now, also remember that there purported candidate, Tonye Cole sort means to apply to appeal that judgment as an interested party, because as at that time, he was not a party in the matter. Also, remember that there so called party Chairman who is a wanted person by the court who is supposed to be facing multiple murder trial so applied for leave to appeal that judgment, and in doing that, on the 23 of December, 2018. But if you look at the Fourth Alteration, No:21 Act of 2017, it allows that; once it is a pre-election, you must apply or you must appeal within 14 days the judgment is given. And the judgment was giving on the 10th of October and the so called candidate for the APC and their chairmanship candidate in quote applied after 23 days in which case, they applied out of time. Now, when they go to Court of Appeal, the man of the other side of the APC, filed a motion to say look, if the appeal filed, is incompetent. Why, because the judgment that was given was a content judgment and therefore they did not seek leave of court before the appeal and two that even those who are seeking to join to appeal, they have done that after the time, and therefore their appeals are defective. And the Court of Appeal presided over by Justice A, Abubakar said yes, it was out of time and that appeal was struck out. And the main appeal patterning the judgment of the 10th of October was dismissed on the ground that they didn’t seek leave since it was a consent judgment. Therefore, the judgment of the 10th of October giving by the State High Court is still valid . They have appealed to Court of Appeal and lost. Now, what do we do as a party, we say look, if there were no primaries as heard by the court, can INEC still allow these people to still participate in the general election? It cannot allow them. And part of the argument also is that at this point, the contest for your party to have come in at this stage has a missing link because they haven’t participated in an election with the person contesting against me. No. That is not correct. First of all, every person who has that view does not know what the law said. Now, you have gone to court, court has given judgment. Whichever way you look at it, rightly or wrongly, what you have to say is that this was the facts of the case, or this judgment was that, these were not the issue, the judgment was judge beyond this and that, I don’t see it like that. And they went to appeal that judgment and they lost. Right now, look at what we are talking about. The law about us, we say no, we say section 285(14) of the 1999 constitution, fourth alteration No.21 Act 2017, says as follows; for the purpose of the section, pre-election matters means, any suit by; (1) an aspirant who complain that any of the provisions of the electoral act or any act of the National Assembly regulating the conduct of primary of political parties and provisions regarding to political parties for conducting party primaries have not been complied with by the political party in respect of the selection or nomination of primaries of elections; (2) an aspirant challenging the actions, decisions activities. Look at were we come in, (3) a political party challenging the actions, decisions or activities of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, disqualifying it’s candidate from participating in an election or a complain that the provisions of the electoral act or any other applicable law has not been complied with by the nomination of candidate of political party for an election time table, for election, registration of voters and other activities. So, we are a political party, and we are saying that, look APC has not complied with the provisions of the electoral act by holding valid and lawful primaries, and haven’t comply with that, you cannot with this qualify to participate in the 2019 election as far as this offices are concern. But they have an option? No, the point am saying is that, so when you say that PDP is an interloper. No, the court gives us that opportunity. As political party, we can say that INEC, this particular party in sponsoring its candidate did not comply with the provisions of the electoral act and the provisions of the constitution now. Was there any intention that they were going to field candidates when the court has ruled otherwise that warranted your going to court? First of all, we are members of the public. I know the court nullified their primaries and I want them not to participate in that election, which means that you cannot be part of what we are doing because you have failed to comply with what the law said that would enable you to sponsor candidates. So, it is not for him to say why should I not wait until after the election. There is concern that it’s as if the PDP sat back and was looking for avenues to underscore the activities of the APC considering they are afraid of war. With all due respect, is there any election in the state that you will say APC has defeated PDP. Mention one. What about the APC senators? You want us to say what happened. You know and that is the more reason we accuse INEC and the security agencies. Take for example, INEC declared PDP candidate as the winner of the election and INEC certified result sheet. Then the APC went to tribunal. Police tendered original sheet of INEC. How did the police have the original result sheet? Police has original sheet, INEC also have. But the matter got to court? The point I am making. INEC has not even ask themselves question. We have the original sheet, how did the police also have the original. There cannot be two originals. Which means, they compromised by printing two originals by giving one to police. Was this one proven? Well, we don’t criticise the judiciary. Once judgment is given, we abide by it. But what we are saying, it has never happened. That where a police report will be accepted above that of INEC and we don’t want that mistake to continue to happen. You can’t sit down and continue to complain. It is not APC that seems to suggest to everybody that what you will do. But you have raised issues concerning security of the state especially leading up to the elections. And now from every submission, the APC seems partly out of the game. That gives you free room to continue and there will be peace before, during and after the election. No. In fact, let me tell you. All of us we know what APC had planned and it is in the public domain that APC does not want election in Rivers State. They will cause crisis so that the election will not take place the day other elections were supposed to take place in other states so that they will be able to bring in security to overcome the state and manipulate as they did in Osun State. But isn’t this an attempt to get the APC out of the election, so that you can have fill. No, it’s an attempt to put things right so that you must comply with the provisions of the law. It has come to the point that people will not keep quiet . Now, let me tell you, Buruji went to court against PDP, Buruji got judgment against PDP at the Federal High Court. INEC wrote to PDP that they are going to comply and uphold the judgment by the Federal High Court even though that Adebutu and his team had gone to the Court of Appeal. That is To tell you that INEC has various interpretations. Now, because it is PDP, INEC wrote they would comply the judgment of court. Now, when its primaries of APC, the lawyers of the other faction write to INEC that you cannot recognize the candidates because the court has nullified the primaries, abinito, there are no candidates, so you cannot. You know what INEC did; INEC wrote to APC notifying them for their information of such a judgment, not telling them that they will comply. But for PDP, INEC wrote to PDP that they are going to comply with the judgment; that they are going to make sure that the judgment is implemented. But, when it was on APC, INEC wrote to APC notifying them that look there is such a judgment. So, this is about the mode of operation of INEC? That is why people don’t have confidence in them. If you look at the letter they wrote to APC on 22nd of November, 2018, they merely say that we are in receipt of this judgment from a man called Henry Bello informing us that this is the judgment of court and you must comply and therefore, they are now sending it to them for their own knowledge. But what about Zamfara, INEC immediately told APC? No, it’s a different thing. It’s like you don’t also understand. Whose interest? Who are those who are saying that APC do not have candidates in Zamfara State? What they were saying is that there were no primaries in Zamfara State. Even though they have gone to court to challenge it? Look at the interpretation, when there are judgments against PDP, immediate enforcement and complied, when there are judgments against APC, we are studying the judgments. I am giving you an instance, a practical one. It happened at Ogun State. We expected INEC as an unbiased umpire, having done the same thing with PDP in the case of Ogun State, that the same thing has happened to APC, we are going to comply with the judgment. They did not do that, what they did was notifying them about the judgment, so you can now see. You are saying that the process is not going to work out, that the elections are going to be compromised. Why do you say that the election is going to be compromised? Now, let me tell you something. You remember the 6th division created. The headquarters of the 6th division is here in Port Harcourt. Then I hear they have a new GOC. Rivers State government played a major role to commence that 6th division. Rivers State government played a major role in terms of providing accommodation and the rest of them. Do you know that as I sit here, the so called GOC who is sitting in my own state, where we have provided them virtually everything for them for the 6th division to take off, he has gone to visit my colleague in Akwa-Ibom State, he has gone to visit Delta State. Do you know that the GOC has never deemed it necessary to pay a courtesy call on the Governor of the state where the headquarters of the division is? Does the peace accord mean anything to your party? That is a ceremony . I don’t like those ceremonies. All those things are mere public display. You don’t dance to it? As an individual, no. This Peace Accord doesn’t work. Truly if you want us to have non violent elections, those to sign the peace accord are INEC and security agencies because they are the ones that create the environment for violence. If INEC doesn’t support APC and do their job for example, would there be crisis? You believe that there is no sincerity of purpose from government to ensure that…. In fact, I was shocked and surprised that the President refused to sign the electoral act into law. I remember vividly in my matter when we went to court, the Supreme Court acknowledged that the card reader is an innovation and it will help us to move to the next stage of our election process . But it is not backed up by law. Therefore, there is now need to amend the electoral act to bring this card reader that will in a way reduce the level of fraud . Now the legislature has come up with a law to authenticate the card reader, you refused to sign it. A process that you said helped you to win election. He didn’t say that he’s opposed to the card reader That the President has refused to sign the electoral act is purely to manipulate the 2019 election. All of us know. It is not about coming to television to tell me you will create a legacy of free and fair elections, when you have refused to sign what will enable us to have free and fair elections. What about the reasons given by the President? With all due respect, it is not correct. The National Assembly corrected the electoral act after the presidency complained. The second time, you complained that the National Assembly mixed up issues and the interpretations will be difficult. What is your business? That is why there is always an amendment. 