LAGOS – Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) has called on the Federal Government to reform existing tax policies to ensure justice system in the country. Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, CISLAC’s Executive Director, who made this call during a two-day round table workshop with the media on Tax Justice in Nigeria held at Ikeja, said that the country has outgrown the existing tax system and needs to bring in innovative processes that will boost the tax net. Speaking at the event, Mr. Henry Ushie, Lead, Conflict and Fragility/Civic Space Mainstreaming at Oxfam, Nigeria, argued that, “the increase tax revenue being witnessed in Nigeria today ties to the dwindling oil price in the international market because that has affected us tremendously, and we are trying to look internally at where we can mobilise funds, and the quickest way to mobilise funds is from taxes”. Ushie explained that the leaders of the revenue service are also very outgoing to ensure that they augment areas Nigeria is losing oil to be able to get taxes; and make up for development and improve the nation’s budget as well. According to him, “The tax regime so far has improved because, looking back at where we are coming from since 2012. This is because when CISLAC started this movement, the tax policy was obsolete. “What we are trying to do now is to see how we will synchronise the tax policy now to work with the law on ground because the law on ground is a bit obsolete and does not speak very well with the new national tax policy. We need to work on that as well to align it properly. “Government is also making good moves to ensure that it sanitise the tax system and make it a very good regime. We see interventions like the Voluntary Asset and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS) where people are given a time frame to declare their assets so they can know their tax bills and to be taxed appropriately.” Ushie further stressed the need for active civil space where citizens can be more effective in their engagement with the government by querying obnoxious taxation as it financially and socially affects them. “The civil space has been underrated because citizens no longer have the withdrawal to carry out some of their basic right due to the government clampdown on the illiterate ones among them who are been over-taxed. The appointment of tax consultants as tax collectors by politicians is also one of the means that government has been using to cheat the citizens with the inhuman means of collecting taxes”, he said.