ABUJA – Pastoralists under the auspices of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN on Friday, said they decided to throw their weight on President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term bid owing to his livestock development policies. They re-echoed their support after secretary of the group, Mohammed Kiruwa led other members to meet with President Buhari. He said although the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 16 presidential election, Atiku Abubakar was also a Fulani man from the north, he failed as Vice President to secure the interest of pastoralists in the country. Kiruwa explained, “they are both Fulanis. Atiku had two terms as Vice President in this country. Under his tenure we did not see anything that was put in place to change the position of pastoralists in Nigeria. Throughout those periods of the past administrations, the subsector suffered the worst neglect ever. According to him, MACBAN informed the President that the 20-million strong body had sent the delegation to endorse his bid for a second term of office on account of the administration’s achievements in office which included, the successful clampdown on kidnapping and cattle rustling and the fight against terrorism and corrupt elements in the society. The leader of MACBAN said President Buhari’s personal qualities of honesty, integrity and his unparalleled commitment to the unity and progress of the nation, also informed his association’s support for a renewal of his tenure. In his remarks, President Buhari appealed for accommodation and tolerance among cattle herders and farmers throughout the country. The President said that his government will give equal respect to all citizens irrespective of their ethnic, religious and geopolitical backgrounds. He urged the herders to support him in the task of bringing lasting peace to the country. The President called on state governors to work with the Minister of Agriculture, who he said, had been mandated to work out a solution with states by which herders will have access to water for their livestock, and farmers will have security against destruction of their farmlands. “Whatever it will take, I am determined to bring peace between farmers and herders. I urge you all to be patient and exercise restraint while we are working for an enduring solution,” he stressed. The President also attributed part of the conflict between the two groups to the climate change phenomenon and population explosion, but regretted that its politicisation by selfish individuals who did not mean well for the country did not also help matters. According to the President, “Before the Benue and Taraba crises, I called the Minister of Agriculture and the Governor of Central Bank and asked them to work with the state governors on rediscovering the gazetted cattle routes, clear of farmlands that had made for peace during the First Republic.” President Buhari expressed strong confidence that a way around the problem will be found, working with the states which have an important role to play in finding a lasting solution.