Dr Junaid Muhammad, a Second Republic legislator  and outspoken critic of  the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. In this interview with Ahmad Tijjani Abdul in Kano, the Russian-trained medical doctor took a swipe at Buhari’s administration and offered solution on what should be done to get Nigeria working again. Excerpts: If a former Defense Chief, Alex Badeh can be hacked to death in cold blood, how safe is an ordinary Nigerians under this Buhari’s administration? In a simple sentence, Nigeria is not safe.  Nigeria has never been safe , particularly from the advent of the Goodluck Jonathan administration, the pretense which has characterised the Buhari’s administration, and the lies from the leading Generals who are in charge of these unfortunate situation in the north east of the past nine years , and  of course earlier than that those also in charge of containing or curtailing the militancy in the Niger Delta, and lately, we have a very serious situation ballooning out of control in Zamfara, essentially in areas of  the north west bordering  Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi , and Katsina. So, anybody who want to be sincere, and who does not want play politics with human lives and properties of people would like to answer your question by saying  ‘No, this country is not safe. Infact, it has never been safe under Buhari. The difference between Yar’Adua , Jonathan and Buhari is that one, late  Yar’Adua meant well, and might have been misguided in what he was doing, he certainly care about security, about securing the life and properties of ordinary Nigerians , and he thought that the issue of security was too important to allow anybody play with,  because to him  until his death, it was sacrosanct assignment. Playing games with national security started deliberately with Jonathan and it is continuing with Buhari. I like Jonathan who was ignorant on issues pertaining security ,  Buhari does not know and he does not admit he does not know , and he believes he can  lie his way through this cauldron of national security. While both Yar’Adua and Jonathan as much as possible allowed the Armed Forces considerable freedom , and they thought they could somehow hold them accountable , Buhari pretended he knows more than the serving Generals , and he also believed that by merely talking about an issue or problems  he can wish it away , and that is the tragedy of Buhari’s administration. Unlike the former Heads of state , and the Generals that served under them , Nigerian Generals have been by and large been very truthful to the Nigerian people,  to the Nigerian Government ,and to the Nigerian National Assembly , and the Tax Payers, in the case of Buhari, that has not been important , what is important to him is that he is perceived  to be the know all and be all, and that whatever he says somehow becomes gold., whereas in actual fact everything Buhari touched has become dust , and this is the situation we found ourselves today. Yes you can see , there is no security in the country, and every time the President or his Generals opened their mouth , they lied to the country, and this is very unfortunate. Are you opposed to retention of the Service Chiefs? You can’t perpetuate Generals in the Army, Navy , and Air force and some of the policemen in service , and the process denied better officers who up and coming to come and render service , and we have a situation whereby some Generals who are favoured by Buhari and the corrupt cabal around him who,  in fact masterminded the appointment of the Generals, but they would not allow the Generals to go because they are partners of the Generals in stealing our common wealth, and we see a General lobbying a civilian who do not know how to handle a common kitchen knife, you know there is something wrong. The General who knows what he is doing does not take war as a business, he rather see it as patriotic act , but we have in Nigeria today, quite a number of people especially , the generation around General  Buratai fellow are over due to be eased out and that there is nothing wrong because there is an existing convention  under the law that provided that when you reach certain age, certain rank, and certain level of achievement, you must  simply leave so that others can come, I learnt on a very good authority that there are four set of Generals who have been forced out in order perpetuate the leadership of the current rouges and scoundrels who are in the army and are making a lot of money, and if Buhari has been honest to himself, and also honest to the so-called mantra of fighting corruption, before General Buratai was appointed, it was known to him  that he has a house in Dubai, and Buhari lack the moral courage to ask him to go quietly. He appointed him and he has reappointed him , the same thing applied to theInspector General of the Police , the same thing applied to other service chiefs. This is the best way to run army and this is not best way to run a security force in the field of a very red hot insurgency, and that is the situation we are facing. Does this analogy explain why Nigeria is not winning the war? It is almost ridiculous to ask whether Nigeria is safe or not because Nigeria is not secured, and whether the war is been properly fought , I said no, because things are not been done the right way , and whether the armed forces under the Commander in chief who led the army decades ago are in no position to fight the insurgency, anyway the army themselves are now afraid or frightened to fight Boko Haram, and we have seen people on National television who say they are better when they being occupied by the Boko Haram than the Nigerian army. Every crime which was hitherto committed by Boko Haram are now been committed by the Nigerian Army , and we know , stock fish, rice, beans  are ben seized from people who are civilian who are supposed to be protected by not only by Boko Haram but by the Nigerian armed forces taking it to some part of the country to be sold. i was aware that some stock fish was brought and sold in Kano where million were collected,  and anytime you hear Boko Haram making a series of attack, you found out they are under pressure, there is no food, there is no fuel to man their operations, and anytime you hear the government saying, we have finished them, we have decimated them, you know they are lying, they are saying that to justify the money taken from the public vault, on top of it all, we have a situation in the country today as such that anybody can go as a commander in the arm force  and not only take money from either Boko Haram or the common people, but refuse to pay soldiers their salaries and their allowances, if this is the kind of the management we have, you will agree with me that we will never have  the insurgency under control. If Nigerians don’t care, and those who are there believed they can play politics with life, and we also have to admit that in all these Buhari is not in charge. Who are those in charge? The people in charge are the cabal, and the cabal is Mamman Daura, Abba Kyari, Lawal Daura, Babagana Kingibe, Musa Bello who served as minister at the FCT, and host of others. We also know the major contractors of the government, and we know those who have turned the CBN to a cash machine , we know with full authorisation of Buhari himself, we know those who have dedicated or rather planted in the NNPC to either take cash and don’t have to wait for the crude oil to be sold or they go and get the crude oil and get paid in advance and then come started telling Buhari lies because he chooses to  believes in lies so that they will be able to campaign for him in the next election, its only God that will saves us . How do we get out of this quagmire? To get out of the quagmire, get rid of the government itself, and get rid of the opposition. How? The answer to Buhari’s incompetence is not to replace with him with Atiku as president,   because I don’t believe Atiku is a better choice. In terms morality, in terms of patriotism,  he is indeed  a lot worse than Buhari. For those who are looking for change, the Atiku  type of change are in for a major disappointment, because  I don’t see how Atiku  can govern this country  with the sense of justice, fair play, and he is he kind of person who believed that anybody is for sale including the country itself, he has already committed himself that he is going to sell the NNPC, one of the biggest asset we have , if he is committed to selling off the refineries, the oil wells, up streams and down streams activities , you can see where we are headed to . Therefore 2019 election is going to be an election without choice, and I pity Nigerians who imagined that Atiku will be a choice, and he is not going to be a choice believing also that Buhari to continue with the cabal around him also is not a choice. Of course, it is a common knowledge that, this  is the most nepotistic government in the history of Nigeria, every government appointee are either friends, in-laws, cronies , and the unfortunate things are that all of them are crooks and there are no single one of them  to be trusted. Can Buhari deliverer a credible election? Well, here I have to enter a caveat, essentially speaking, it is not Buhari who deliver a credible election, it is Buhari, the National Assembly, and the arrow head, it’s the  leadership of Independent Electoral Commission (INEC), and  to be honest with you I have not seen evidence with which I can say INEC has failed, but with certainty, I can say the National Assembly has failed , and the Presidency and the cabal around him who were taking money from both CBN and the  NNPC are en-route to rubbishing the election its self, so draw your own conclusion.  I can’t blame one organisation, or government alone but the people I have to blame is the National Assembly, it’s the disgraceful National Assembly, the most irresponsible, the most incompetent, the most shameless group , and the most corrupt in the history of Nigeria, and Africa., I believed what has been said about the National Assembly has been said about the Presidency, and the cabal around the Presidency, and don’t forget that most of the people, and the cabal in the presidency were not elected and nobody elected Babagana Kingibe, nobody elected de-facto president himself, Mamman Daura, nobody elected Musa Bello,  and I can continue ad-infinitum, if we have not chosen them, they have no business dealing with us with our resources, our life security, the way they are doing. I have no doubt the President and Presidency is guilty of this anomaly. Of course, substantial numbers are his in laws, brother in-laws, and there are ministers who have failed. You cannot tell me Fashola can be minister one day or more  in a serious country, he comes out telling people he doesn’t like the north , He is telling people that the government he is running is their own government from the south west and the government which is now  under Buhari is not a CPC government. A character like that  brought up to deal with the country and was given four important ministries , there must something over with Buhari, and that he is doing is to spite the northern people , and Fashola has never won an election, it is some people who have been winning election for him, and that kind of character will come out and be insulting people, and dealing people diabolically, telling people who come from certain areas he doesn’t like particularly from the far north , and he is still in government. This is the only government in Nigeria where there has never been a reshuffle due to incompetence, corruption or some misdemeanor, everybody so appointed is almost there for life, and that is why people like Fashola is still a minister in charge of four key ministries, Fayemi remained there for whatever reasons until the he was allowed to go and compete with the former governor of Ekiti state, it was when the lawyers pointed out the implication of how illegal it was before he was allowed to resign, otherwise, Buhari was prepared to allow him to hang on .Similarly, look at the issue of Aisha Alhassan, she did not pretend her loyalty, she made it clear that in event of contest between Buhari and Atiku that she will go for Atiku, and they have enormous difficulties in removing her as a minister first , and a candidate of the party in her Taraba state. We also another bearded fellow Adebayo  Shittu, the Minister of Communication, look at what is happening , and nobody can call anybody to order, so the presidency under Buhari is a school for scandal. It’s on record that the National Assembly presented an electoral bill to the President thrice, and in each occasion he declared assent, Do we still blame the lawmakers? There is nothing wrong if the president denied his assent to the sequence of election, but don’t forget  there is no provision in the constitution that says everything presented by the National Assembly to the President must be assented to. No.  There are no such provisions by our laws. Also it’s a common knowledge that the lawmakers did not put together the sequence of the election because they have  the interest of the country at heart , People like Bukola Saraki and few others are too ambitious to such an extent that they don’t give a damn about Nigeria, that that is why we are having problems.  Don’t forget, principal officers like Saraki and Dogara are after their own political interest, and that is why they put the election the way they did, and if they believe they are persuaded, and think they have the numbers, all they need to do was not to invent or create artificial crisis, if they think the president is wrong, there is a provision in the constitution that allows the National Assembly to override the presidential veto, and of course, they don’t have the number . Unless you have the number you cannot do anything, you can only make noise, and no amount of noise will make Buhari change his mind because he is also playing politics, he is not doing it for national interest, he is playing survivalist politics., he wants to remain in power and he believes that by the Presidential election first, whereby he can rig the election, do anything he wants to do, tampers with voting machines, he will certainly plays politics to make sure he returns. It is of course, condemnable,  the people at the highest position in government ,the national assembly and the executive branch are guilty of this malevolent attitude, winning at all cost, that’s  what matters to them because of fat salary package, no legislators, no appointed person get such pay package in the world, every senator  in Nigeria earns more than what Donald Trump earns as President of United State of America, you can imagine the situation where  some of them have never handled a million naira during the days of their struggle. How did we get to this level? It was Chief Obasanjo who started it when he allowed the legislators in what appeared like a bribery  to increase their salaries and at the back of his mind was that when the time comes, he will now smuggle tenure elongation and make himself a life president, he failed, and we are now living with the consequences of his corruption, and we have assembly now that has gone haywire, and they are not ashamed , and unfortunately, this singular profligacy has direct consequence on the problems we have today, including insecurity, armed robbery, abduction of people has to do with way the national assembly runs itself , the kind of emolument and salaries they give themselves , the kind of corruption which they have now institutionalized ,and that is why today, ASUU is on strike, because if I have to go to school, read hard,  get the first, second and third degrees, and back again to be a lecturer and professor, and the salary am earning and some bloody good for nothing idiots become a member of the House or a senator and earning twenty times salary am earning, you think am going to accept that , what has he got to offer which I don’t have ? The painful thing is that most of them parade false certificate . For the first time in our history as a nation, we have a president who have a fake certificate , when they want to prove that he has a certificate , they produced a letter ,headed paper of school bearing inscription of Katsina state ministry of education, when Buhari left secondary school there was no Katsina state , its only north central state, not even Kaduna state , so who is fooling who?, and the whole issue was much ado about nothing, there is nothing in law which says Buhari must passed school certificate , all he has to do was to get a testimonial  to ascertain that he has gone through secondary education, and if he doesn’t have that,  all he need to do was to show that after his primary school , he has done equivalent of ten years work garnered  in experience, that is all, but because of the incompetence of his handlers, the corruption in the presidency, and the lack of shame, we are in situation today where everybody knows that our President went through secondary education, no doubt but that he failed his school  certificate, and when you begin to ask,  how comes he becomes a General in the Nigerian Army, you ask the military, and unfortunately, late Alex Badeh played a very important role in creating this lies, and the other General from the South west was booted out because he spoke the truth. Why the rigmarole?  It’s a very straight forward issue.