Sarah Jack Lagos – Senator Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing Lagos East Senatorial District at the National Assembly, has assured President Muhammadu Buhari of the support of the people of Lagos East in the forthcoming General Elections. The ranking Senator, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport made this remark during the visit of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to Kosofe Local Government in Lagos East Senatorial District at the Palace of the Oloworo on Monday. While addressing journalists  Ashafa stated that  “In the past four years, we have experienced a high level of transparency in government, an effective fight against corruption, diversification of the economy with primary focus on agriculture and ICT, sustained fight against insecurity and the creation of equal opportunity for all Nigerians…” “For the first time, Nigerians have equally enjoyed actual social investment programs being initiated by the Federal Government. The homegrown school feeding program, market money and trader money, N-Power Scheme that has employed over 500, 000 Nigerians and direct cash transfers to the poorest amongst us show how much the government of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Osinbajo care about the livelihood of every Nigerian” He went on further to commend the Government on achievements in infrastructure and Power generation, saying “In the area of infrastructure, despite all challenges, the construction of the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway is nearing its completion, work has started also on the Ikorodu-Shagamu road and the Apapa – Oworonshoki road projects which are of direct significance to Lagos East Senatorial District”. “The Lagos – Ibadan rail line is nearing completion while the Calabar to Lagos coastal rail which is expected to pass through Lagos East as well would soon be commenced. Across Nigeria, we all agree that power generation has improved as well. Ashafa further said that the people of Lagos East are not oblivious of these various achievements of the President Buhari Administration and as such are willing and fully ready to support the second term bid of the President. He said “Your Excellency, we stand here today to tell you without a doubt that the good people of Lagos East Senatorial District are fully in support of the Buhari/Osinbajo APC Presidential ticket. Our Permanent Voters Cards are ready for use come 16th of February, 2019 in order to ensure that the victory for our party is total and complete.” The Senator also used the opportunity to urge the people of Lagos East who might not have collected their voter cards to go to the nearest Local Government office of INEC to collect same, to ensure total victory for APC at the polls. He also encouraged the people of Lagos East to support the APC Gubernatorial Candidate of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwoolu, the Lagos East Senatorial Candidate, Honourable Bayo Osinowo and all other candidates of the APC.