Adedeji said micro-pension scheme as an imperative with urgency. According to her, by its nature, it is a scheme with increasing longevity which potential patronisers are mainly large and relatively young population with enough potential to reduce poverty and raise standard of living, a scheme with changing culture/diminishing family support, as well as a scheme, which potential customers are characterized by growing size and mainly from informal sector market with high potential to transform the economy. In addition, she added that micro pension was an arrangement for the provision of pension and retirement benefits to the low income, self-employed and persons operating in the informal sector, adding that it protects the low-income members of the society against the vagaries of old-age poverty. “The formulation of such schemes requires a delicate balance between economic viability, generation of adequate returns and customized features for the participants,” she stated. According to her, for the scheme to succeed, there was the need to properly address administrative, design and efficiency issues. On strategies to encourage engagement in micro-pension plans, Adedeji, said there was a need for awareness creation, need for the provision of incentives to participants as well as need to encourage contribution of small frequent amounts. She also suggested that contribution rates should be flexible with convenient door to door collection of contributions encouraged as well as insulation of the participants against volatility in investment growth. She further said operators of the scheme should leverage on technology to facilitate easy contribution/payments. Section 2(3) of the Pension Reform Act 2014, paved the way for the micro-pension scheme, stipulating that employees of organisations’ with less than three employees as well as self-employed are entitled to participate under the scheme in accordance with guidelines issued by PenCom. This group, she said, covers the informal sector, which plays an indispensable role in Nigeria and world economies. Micro Pension Plan – Design Considerations Adedeji did not stop at that as she pondered that to encourage contributions to the Micro Pension Plan by the target audience the Flexibility of contribution amounts, Access to contributions/savings, Incentives for participants, Financial/Pension education, Coverage of a high proportion of the population should be encouraged, while availability of infrastructure that is supportive of mass registration, contribution collection and database management flexibility, easy and straightforward access to benefits should be well structured. Chronicling what may appear to be major impediments in the implementation of the micro pension; Mrs Ronke Adedeji, Chairperson, Association of Pension Funds Administrators of Nigeria (PenOp) noted that Culture, Lack of Knowledge or Education (Financial), Inexperience with formal financial institutions; low incomes may hamper the smooth execution of the initiative. Other challenges, according to her, could include mobilisation of savings and granting of loans/liquidity, matching sporadic deposits with flexible withdrawals in addition to the investment, inflation and longevity risks to be mitigated. She added that collection of contributions and payment of benefits, communication with clients, the complexity of administration, Premature withdrawals, risk of low benefit payout, high transaction costs associated with frequent/small inflows and outflows, voluntary scheme means low priority and absence of saving culture would work against the smooth running of the scheme. To address the challenges, she outlined key strategies to encourage engagement in micro-pension plans to include creation of awareness, provision of incentives to participants, encouraging the contribution of small frequent amounts, flexible contribution rates, convenient door-to-door collection of contributions, insulation of the participants against volatility in investment growth, leveraging technology to facilitate easy contribution/payments Allowing opt-outs during periods when participants are not able to contribute, ensure inexpensive portability, financial education, compulsory participation, centralised administration to lower administrative costs, professional management of funds seamlessly and straightforward access to benefits. “Permit me to state that there was no pension industry prior to the 2004 pension reform in Nigeria. Pension schemes operated in both the public and private sector before the 2004 reforms, were burdened with a lot of problems and also suffered from poor administrative structures. The public sector scheme was unfunded, causing it to become unsustainable, with an estimated N2trillion deficit. In the private sector, with the exception of the National Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), the schemes were as many as there were companies. HISTORY Going down memory lane, in Nigeria, records show that the first public sector pension scheme was established by the Pension Ordinance of 1951.  This law was backdated to take effect from January 1, 1946. This law provided public servants with both pension and gratuity. As at independence in 1960, the Pension Ordinance CAP 147 of 1958, Laws of Nigeria operated in the Public Service up to 31 March 1974. The law was subsequently reviewed drastically and replaced by Decree 102 of 1979 (later Pension Act, CAP 346 of 1990, Laws of Nigeria), with a commencement date of 1 April 1974. As at 2004, the Pensions Decree 102 of 1979 was the basic pension law from which other pension laws in the public service of Nigeria developed. Other laws which catered for specific professional groups but retained the main ingredients of Decree 102 of 1979 were: The Armed Forces Pensions Act 103 of 1979, The Pension Rights of Judges Act No 51 of 1988, 29 of 1991 and 62 of 1991;The Police and Other Agencies Pensions Offices (Establishment, etc) Act, 1993; and the Police Pension Rights of Inspector-General of Police Act, 1993 Pre-Reform Pension Arrangements The pension system up to June 2004 was based on the defined benefit plan. A defined benefit plan is one in which the entitlement of the beneficiary is anchored on some pre-defined parameters e.g. no of years of service, last salary before retirement, vesting scale. The pension system at the time was operated as what is described as a Pay As You Go System which largely says that the active workforce underwrites the bill of the members of the workforce who have retired.  Thus, the capacity to pay retirement benefits in such a system rests solely on the government’s budget i.e. the government’s revenue generating capacity – taxes from the active workforce are thus the mainstay of the retirement payments to the retirees. The administrative system for the pension; pre-2004 was different in the public sector and the private sector.  Within the public sector itself, Parastatals were allowed to have individual pension arrangements for their staff and appoint Boards of Trustees (BOTs) to administer their pension plans as specified in a Standard Trust Deed and Rules prepared by the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation. The first private sector pension scheme in Nigeria was set up for the employees of the Nigerian Breweries in 1954; this was followed by United African Company (UAC) in 1957. National Provident Fund (NPF) was the first formal social protection scheme in Nigeria established in 1961 for the non-pensionable private sector employees. It was largely a savings scheme, where both employee and employer would contribute a sum of four naira (N4) each on a monthly basis. The scheme provided for only one-off lump sum benefits. The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) was established by Decree No. 73 of 1993 to provide enhanced social protection to private sector employees.  The NSITF took over the assets of the NPF and commenced operations in July 1994.  Thus, all registered members of the NPF became automatic members of the NSITF.  Similarly, all private sector employers and employees were mandated to register as members as soon as they commenced operations and assumed duty respectively.