ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) is set to partner with the Nigerian University of Technology and Management Project group to build university of technology and management in the FCT. Speaking while receiving the executive of the group, led by the Minister of Trade and Investment, Dr Okechukwu Enelamah, in his office in Abuja on Tuesday, the Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Bello, said the project is in furtherance of the plan of the FCT Administration to have specialized institutions in phases 4 and 5 of the territory. He noted that Abuja has matured in terms of population and infrastructure, and said the FCT Administration would give the group the support to ensure that the project commenced as quickly as possible. According to Bello, in a press statement made available to newsmen yesterday in Abuja by his Chief Press Secretary, Ma Cosmas Uzodinma stated that the arrangements were being made in the interim, to situate the project within the premises of the Abuja University of Technology, Abaji, or the Abuja Technology Village. His words, “We are now developing a new area of the city which is called phase 5 in the southern axis of the city and within phase 5, we are earmarking an area that could basically accommodate what you did in Hyderabad. It’s not just going to be yours alone, but other institutions that have similar ideas and we are doing so because we have a major arterial road network that is going to connect phase 3, 4 and phase 5 and part of it is under construction already. “We are now concentrating on so many other things, the industrial zone, medical and even school facilities. Now even within the education system, we are now targeting more of specialized institutions because by the natural phase of growth, the city has reached a point where it requires that”. Earlier, Enelamah said Nigeria was very privileged to have a group of investors who had gone through the system, having been trained by such universities and have contributed and given back to their own societies by building such institutions. He said they were now going beyond the call of duty to help Nigeria in building such a university. Also speaking on the occasion, the Senior Advisor (NUTM), Rajat Gupta, emphasized that public-private partnership would be required to create such world class institution in the country.