LAGOS – Chinese resident in Lagos gathered at the Oriental Hotel, during the weekend to celebrate the New Year and reunite with their families. According to the Chinese Lunar calendar and Zodiac sign, the celebration marks the Year of the Pig. The event, which is celebrated annually not just in China but across the globe where there are Chinese communities, is characterised by one of the 12 spirit animals of the Chinese zodiac. Zhou Pingjian, Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, speaking at “Year of the Pig – 2019 Lunar Celebration” in Lagos, lauded the people-to-people exchange between Chinese and Nigerians and described the relationship as the best in history. Pingjian congratulated 48 Nigerian friends who received October first award for China-Nigeria Friendship at the event, adding that to show that the ties are cherished by people of both countries, President Muhammadu Buhari attended the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) summit in Beijing last year. He lauded Nigeria’s great contributionw to the success of the event, adding that Presidents Xi Jinping and Buhari reached an important consensus on furthering the bilateral ties. China is ready to work with Nigeria to elevate their strategic partnership to a new level and bring greater benefits to our two countries and peoples, Pingjian noted. Also, Chao Xiaoliang, Consul General of the Peoples’ Republic of China in Lagos, commended Lagos State, which is host to his people, for the warm and friendly reception given to him and Chinese within the two years he has spent in the state. Chao, who said that the New Year is a time to show people’s achievement in the past year, congratulated Chinese and Nigerians, as well as stated that people of the two countries would continue to strengthen the cultural relations between them in the New Year. Speaking on the significance of the pig as animal for the 2019 celebration, a Chinese, who claimed anonymity, said: “The pig is the last of the zodiac animals, having overslept and arrived late to the great meeting to which all of the creatures were summoned by the Jade Emperor, according to custom.” Also, one of the awardees, Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, said it was important to celebrate with the Chinese because of their impact in the society, adding that they are friendly, productive and always law-abiding. Obaseki, while commending the Chinese government for its ability to lift the people out of poverty within the shortest possible period, stated: “It’s a thing of joy to celebrate with them, to appreciate them for the celebration and the development of the country.”