Livestock production in Nigeria will continue to be hampered by inefficient production systems,  a report by Fitch Solutions Macro Research has stated. According to the report, nomadic herdsmen account for the majority of beef output, but competition with crop farmers leads to violent conflict, weighing on production. “Despite boasting the largest economy in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), and being one the leading cattle producers in the region, Nigeria’s beef industry remains largely underdeveloped, the report said The report noted that Nigerian Production still lags behind South Africa Select Sub-Saharan African countries, lagging investment in cattle management systems and meat processing facilities compared to other agricultural sectors; the absence of large-scale commercial beef operations, and the escalating violence between cattle herdsmen and crop farmers will constrain future beef production. “We forecast the country’s beef production deficit to remain in place over the next five years, reaching over 80,000 tonnes by 2023. “Approximately 99 per cent of Nigeria’s cattle population is managed traditionally, predominantly by nomadic herdsmen, resulting in inefficient production and high transportation costs”, it said. According to a study from the International Journal of Veterinary Sciences and Animal Husbandry, the Fulani and Shuwa tribes dominate beef production in the country. These nomadic herdsmen, traditionally located in Nigeria’s mainly Muslim north, are increasingly forced to migrate south in search for grazing pastures as Boko Haram attacks in the northeast intensify and climate change, causing desertication, features in the far north. In addition, traditional grazing lands, because there is no policy to legally gazette or protect them, are being encroached upon by urbanisation and cropland expansion. The implications of this are threefold; first, the constant movement of cattle results in frequent thefts, accidents, and unproductivity. The length of transit, coupled with scarce forage and pasture, reduces the quality of meat as cattle arrive to market in poor shape. Also, integrating animal and crop production, as is the case with settled farmers in other beef-producing countries, is diﬃcult under such a system. However, the influx of Muslim herdsmen, encroaching on arable farmland belonging to the settled Christian farmers in the south, results in violent clashes, impacting both crop and livestock production.