Ado-Ekiti – Aare Afe Babalola, founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), has tasked governments at all levels and private organisations to ensure that only genuine entrepreneurs were showcased and honoured. The legal icon and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) gave this admonition while receiving the letter of nomination for Independent Achiever of the Year 2018 Award from the management of Independent Newspapers. The management was led by Ade Ogidan, Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of Independent Newspapers to Ado-Ekiti. Babalola, who thanked the company for counting him worthy of the honour, also described it as a recognition of honesty and hard work which, he noted, had become scarce commodities in our society today. Babalola, who is the Aare Bamofin of Yorubaland, decried situations where political opportunists and people with questionable means were the only beneficiaries of national honours. “Government is busy giving awards to politicians and those who are doing nothing for this country. “Those who are building the nation with their own sweat ought to be recognised more than the so-called politicians and not those who are stealing the nation’s resources. “In Nigeria today, you will see somebody who manages to own one bedroom apartment, once he or she can lick the boot of his or her godfather, he would be allowed to run for high political office. “Then few years after, you’d see him or her buying houses at choice places and parading ill-gotten wealth,” Aare Babalola said. He added, “I urge you to look for entrepreneurs and their backgrounds. You look at how they become who they are. “So, the government and private organisations like Daily Independent should look out for these categories of people and showcase them to the world. “You have to bridge the gap, and I am convinced that your organisation has the capacity to do that. And which is why I welcome you to my institution. “The way you have expressed yourselves showed the depth of your knowledge not only in journalism but about Nigeria and her people. It also shows the experience you have garnered over the years.” Earlier, in his remarks, Ogidan explained that Babalola did not lobby for the award but emerged as preferred awardee after a painstaking assessment and screening carried out by a group of professionals for the nominees across the country. He described the founder as a foremost elder statesman who has not only excelled in the legal profession, but also in entrepreneurship and education.