Osogbo – A female teacher with Christ Apostolic Church CAC Government School, Talafia Ede, Mrs. Inaolaji Sadiat Adekilekun was on Tuesday beaten to stupor by sibling of one of her students. The teacher was reportedly beaten after the student reported to her siblings that she was mercilessly beaten at school by the female teacher. The teacher has since the incident been hospitalised which drew the irk of Nigeria Union of Teachers in the state and insisted that the law must take its course. Adeojo Sodiq, a Bricklayer who perpetrated the act was on Friday arraigned before Magistrate Court sitting in Ede for assault, breach of public peace and conspiracy. NSCDC prosecutor, Principal Inspector of Corps II Opeyemi Adebayo, told the court that Sodiq and his gang members, who are currently at large, on Tuesday, committed offences of assault, breach of public peace and conspiracy. Adebayo said Sodiq and his accomplices stormed the school where Adekilekun was teaching and beat her mercilessly because the teacher was alleged to have disciplined a sibling of the suspect (Sodiq), who reported the beating to the suspect (his brother) at home. The accused however pleaded not guilty to the charges leveled against him and his Defence Counsel, Prince Niran Ojekale applied for his bail in the most liberal terms. Ojekale assured the court that suspect would not jump bail if granted, explaining that the biological father of the accused was in the court and his aunt  had already volunteered to stand as surety. The prosecutor however opposed the bail application on the ground that his command was still intensifying efforts to apprehend the accused gang members who are still at large adding that the victim (Mrs Adekilekun) was still in the hospital receiving medical treatment. Ruling on the matter, Presiding Magistrate,  Mrs I.O Oyebadejo granted Sodiq bail in the sum of N100,000 with one surety in the like sum. Oyebadejo added that the surety must be gainfully employed and must be resident within the court jurisdiction. She, thereafter,  adjourned the case till February 18 for hearing. Speaking on the  matter, Osun State Assistance Secretary General of the Nigerian Union of Teacher, Mr. Abdulahi Muhammed said the union will not be prejudicial in the ongoing case. Muhammed said molesting teachers has become rampant among the secondary students in Ede, noting that last year similar incident  happen at Timi Agbale High School Ede He described the incident as the higher level of rudeness and irresponsibility among the secondary school students in the town. He, however, advised parents and traditional rulers in the ancient town  to put necessary measure in place in order to curtail future reoccurrence.