Lagos – To ensure steady power supply in Nigeria, Festus Mbisiogu, Founder, Good Governance Initiative (GGI) and President, Blue Diamond Logistics, has urged presidential candidates seeking election in the country to sign a commitment to the provision of 100 percent electricity supply to the rural and urban areas of the country. At a press briefing on Monday in Lagos, titled: “Voting right, first sign social contract for adequate power supply,” Mbisiogu noted that this was the best time for Nigerians to make them to sign a social contract on National Energy Policy instead of allowing them conduct presidential debates. Optimistic that this agreement would get them committed to their vows when they eventually win elections,Mbisiogu urged the citizens to arise and agitate for steady power supply from the appropriate authorities. He said that Nigerians should make the candidates realize that “failure to give us steady power supply, they stand the risk of not coming back to ask for our votes.” Noting that Nigerians are people blessed with the right financial muscles, who can achieve a lot when empowered with the enabling environment, he lamented that political office seekers use provision of steady power supply to campaign but after that, fail to implement their electoral promises. Touched by the hardship, pain, economic loss and other social attendant social losses and difficulties that people suffer due to lack of sustainable power supply, Mbisiogu said he founded the GGI, a non-governmental organization (NGO), to draw attention of the relevant authority to the worsening power situation in the country. Lamenting that it is only Nigeria that is yet to achieve the millennium developmental goal on electricity and energy, the GGI founder, stated that “Today, the power sector is in dire need for more investments from the private sector, and active plan for renewable energy integration and sustainability. “It is important for us to understand that adequate electricity supply stimulates economic activities in any given country, as virtually every economic growth is tied to power supply. Uninterrupted power supply is as essential as life itself.” While commending the current and previous administrations for their efforts to improve power supply in the country, Mbisiogu said that “When we rise to tasking them on provision of steady power, they will change because we are putting them on their toes.” Emphasising on signing of social contract with Nigerians, the NGO boss said that “this is not about eight-point or 10-point agenda with Nigerians, it’s about implementing promise on steady power supply. With steady power supply in the country, there will be enough jobs creation for the unemployed youths.”