AbdulKabir Adekunle Akinlade, a member of House of Representatives representing Ipokia/Yewa South federal constituency, is the Ogun State candidate of Allied Peoples Movement (APM). Popularly called Triple A, Akinlade in this interview with IFEDAYO SAYO and SULAIMAN FASASI, spoke on how he was edged out APC, his relationship with Governor Ibikunle Amosun and his agenda for Ogun State. Considering the manner of your emergence, a lot of people are of the opinion that you’ll be the stooge of the outgoing Governor Ibikunle Amosun; don’t you think they are right? To say it in a very clear term, that will not be the case. What are you bringing on board? What difference are you likely to make in governance? For me, I believe very strongly in this state and I have very deep passion for our state. I have lived in UK, I have travelled wide across the world and I have seen so much and we have come to the realisation that no matter what you have, no matter how much you have, no matter what your status is, you’ll always be a visitor wherever you go. Even currently, I live in Lagos; Abuja, but the feeling from being from Ogun State is there and that I believe resonates with everybody wherever you go back to your home or your state.  There is a passion that I have developed, even much stronger, you’ve heard our state anthem ‘Iseya Iseya, Omo Ogun Iseya, eledumare Ise maa ya ooo…’ it’s not just about reciting the song, when you take your time to meditate on the wordings, you’ll understand that there is a deep passion about the state, about the people, about us as a people and once we have that passion, it defines you that when you are given the opportunity to serve, you’ll be always want to give something back, to leave a mark that when you look back you’ll say I did my best, no matter what anybody says about you. Coming back to your question, we will make sure that we develop Ogun State to the extent that anybody from the state will be proud of, in terms of infrastructure, employment for our youths, in terms of growing our economy and building up our rural communities. That will be our major focus. I have always known that Abeokuta is like any capital city, where you run government from, where the coffers of government is, that is why we say to develop a city or a people we need to open up the communities and make them economically viable and that one I know will be sustainable into the future. Ogun West, no doubt, has been marginalised by successive governments. What is your Marshal Plan to frog-jump development in the zone? If you look at the way Ogun State is structured, Ogun East is predominantly traders, Ogun Central more like educationists, while Ogun West are farmers. I am just telling you what I have observed. For me, I believe strongly that for you to rule Ogun State like former President Olusegun Obasanjo put it to me when I met him, it’s like when you wear silk agbada, by the time you flip the right side, the left side will run down and vice versa, meaning that no matter what you do, there is no way you can satisfy everybody. So, what you need to do is to make effort so that at least you are lifting the state and you are lifting everybody, and that is what we are going to do. It’s not because I am from Ogun West extraction and suddenly I embark on developing the zone because I am from there, there is a 25-year blueprint, which I went through and it covers the whole state.  The longest road this administration is working on is the road that started from Yewa North to Eggua to Ilase in Ipokia Local Government, transversing four local governments, that is the longest road. And coming to Sango-Akute-Ajuwon road still under construction, this is an area that no government had ever attempted to do because of the cost of developing that road. There is need to build minimum of five flyovers there. I don’t have the right figure but I think government needs over N100b to build standard road and five bridges that will link Sango-Ota to Berger in Lagos State. What the governor is doing is executing it in phases and I think two of the bridges are ready and the third is near completion. We must give kudos to Senator Ibikunle Amosun because he took the bull by the horn to start the road and what we are going to do is to continue with that project to ensure it is completed by God’s grace, within the shortest possible time. My deputy and I have agreed on that, except where there is natural disaster, like collapse of a bridge, which may need to be constructed immediately, we will not embark on any new major road project until we complete the existing ones because these are in the blueprints. It’s 25 years blueprint, Amosun can only do eight of it, by the grace of God I will do four or eight. And that is one of the areas we are going to focus on because once we open up that area more people will migrate there and it will assist our IGR. Let us focus on education. What are your plans for education? From my constituency in Ipokia/Yewa South Federal Constituency, 70% of our youths end up in cross border trade. That is what I called it on the floor of the House. My people call it smuggling because you don’t have boundaries. There is no physical boundary in Nigeria. We have 21 states with 105 local governments in the borders of Nigeria and there is no physical boundary anywhere. My people always see land mass and they buy from one point and sell in the other point. That is their business. For us, it is cross border trade. When they put physical boundary, then it becomes smuggling. But, on a more serious note, it is because governments in the past had abandoned education at the elementary level. It affects whatever you try to do at the secondary and university levels. Everybody is establishing private universities everywhere, but nobody is looking at what kind of products are actually getting into those schools. That is where we are going to be different. My deputy and I will sit down and look at areas where we can focus on elementary education while we are also doing so much for secondary schools. But, we want to focus on the foundation. I believe I had the privilege of attending one of the best schools. I got the foundation right and that has helped me in other levels. We are going to invest a lot in primary schools. Part of our plans is that primary schools in Ogun State are attended to in terms of repairing the dilapidated classrooms; invest in furniture and human capital by training teachers. The school-feeding programme of this administration at the federal level has shown us that with little, we can keep these children in school. Once we are able to do that, our education system will improve tremendously. That is why we will invest in infrastructure; employ more teachers to deal with the present average of 60 pupils per classroom, while the international average is about 30. That means we need to build more classrooms and employ more teachers because we have about 5,000 primary schools in Ogun State. We will build more classrooms because as development comes and mortality rate is improved, more children will survive. We need to provide for them and teach teachers to meet up with the modern teaching standard. That is what this administration tries to do with the model schools initiative. Considering your emergence and defection to APM, did you ever expect a raucous gubernatorial race of this sort? I will say yes and no. Yes in the sense that we have our leader Chief Olusegun Osoba who in 2015 left the All Progressives Congress with his group for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and came into the election with six House of Representatives members, two Senators and some House of Assembly members and they lost all, none was returned. That crisis continue till a week into the last year primaries and if you look at the process of how they came back it was through the normal process, they were in Bourdillon in Lagos, where the peace move was made, then Amosun want to visit him at home and they all came back, and we said let’s everybody come back for us to have a bigger house for 2019.  Immediately they came back they were making demands and for those who could see, they’ll tell you clearly that there will be crisis. Some people remained in the party in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and some people just returned overnight demanding to take over elective positions, of course there with be crisis. But, why I said no was because the level at which it were, I didn’t feel that anybody who genuinely love Ogun State and have the love of the people at heart will collude with anybody externally to try to bring our state down like what they did in the governorship primaries in the state on October 2, 2018.   It is clear that no primary took place on October 3, 2018. I have video evidence; they showed it live on the television that the primaries of October 2 was authentic. The same primary and the same process took place in Lagos, the same way that the National Working Committee rejected Lagos primaries, the same way they rejected Ogun and overnight accept the one done by Lagos executives. There was a script, a very clear script of what they wanted to do here, but where they got it wrong was that this is Ogun State and not any other state.  I said yes because we knew there could be challenges based on what we saw we at the point they were coming in, and no because we didn’t know it will get to this extent. You’re now using APM as a vehicle, what happens if you win the election, are you crossing back to APC? As a Muslim, even in Christendom, because we are not God and cannot predict what will happen tomorrow, let’s assume that all things being equal that President Muhammadu Buhari wins. Even in Ondo State, former Governor Segun Mimiko left his party and defected to Labour Party (LP) and won, the projection then was that he will return to the Peoples Democratic Party, but then he built the party and other states started adopting Labour Party. I can’t tell you what will happen. If we do this election as it is going and our people voted and we win and the people are convinced that we have something, the people will tell us where we are going. It’s about the people, do I even have money to run this, but it’s goodwill. Like we have telling our people, when we win, we’ll sit down and we look into it and that is the confidence they have in us. It is assumed that Amosun is your godfather and you will likely reunite with him in the APC after your election. Tell us what would happen to APM after the election? Let me set one record straight. In Ogun State, there is no godfather. Amosun is my mentor and not my godfather. What we have in Ogun State is mentorship. When you build people who do not have anything going for them, that is where the issue of godfather comes in. You just pick somebody from the garage and make him chairman of local government. But, when you pick people who are successful CEOs, people in their private business and have built things for themselves, you can only mentor them. When you have mentorship, there is mutual respect and once there’s mutual respect, your views will count. That is what I am telling you that even Senator Ibikunle Amosun cannot tell you what he will do in the next five to 10 years. At the end of the day, it is about the people. Maybe before October 2 primary, which they stole, I might not have this confidence to tell you about the power of the people in Ogun State. I am at the mercy of the people now. With what the people have done in the last two months, that we are for you and we will deliver you, if you ask me the question, I will say ‘yes’. I will go to where the people will go and not where Amosun is going. There is the believe that you were imposed on the party by Governor Amosun. When did you start nursing the ambition and how were you able to get the support of the governor? Sometime in July 2017, I went to Comrade Oshiomhole and Hon Prestige from Abia because Hon Phillips Shuaib, who is the present Deputy Governor of Edo State, was my colleague and I think that somebody who just had a successful transition in Edo State is in better position. Prestige took me to Oshiomhole, we went to his house and even met governor Obaseki and we joked and laughed. I told him I was interested in governorship of Ogun State, I told him where I came from and that the governor wanted somebody from Ogun West. There was this challenge that the immediate deputy governor of PDP is from Ipokia and some of my contenders then; the Chief of Staff and the Speaker have access to the governor because they see him every day and I don’t have the access, ‘can you help me tell this man that I am interested? Oshiomole told me then not to worry that he will speak to Amosun. Two weeks later, Prestige told me the reply of Governor Amosun to Oshiomole, saying for governorship, they are still looking at Ogun West leaders to take the initiative, come together and pick somebody but he gave them an idea of what he wanted, somebody who has the courage and can make things happen in Ogun State and they were already looking at many people. I was told that the only assurance is my return ticket to House of Reps but that he can’t guarantee governorship. With that, I decided to come to my constituency and started the work in July 2017 by calling all the Imams in my constituency, in Ipokia and Yewa South, we prayed, after which I started meeting leaders in the constituency before I started meeting leaders of each Senatorial District, the details I there. I did not speak with my boss, Amosun until March 2018, I need him to see that I am serious and that I was just doing my consultation and mobilisation to show to the governor and the people that I can do it. When the Ogun west leaders started seeing things clearer, it took them seven months before they started calling for meetings because we were about 11 aspirants with only Bimbo Ashiru from Ijebu agenda. It was a process and I didn’t meet Amosun until March, 2018 through Hon Mikky Kassim, I saw him and he said ‘I have been running and jumping around’, he told me his mind the way it is and I told him that I can do it, I have served with him and know the terrain, he then told me to go and see my leaders that the choice would be from Ogun West leaders. It took time and process before I emerged from Ogun west and when I emerged, what Ogun West leaders did was a long process; we did undertaken to support and accept whoever emerges, we did almost six interviews at different places and different areas using consultants, so much went into it, 25 elders form the committee that screened us and at then of the day, It came to certain parameter that I don’t know and I emerged. Then they presented me to the party and then to the Governor. I think the leverage I had was that I served with this man and as a sitting member of the House of Reps, I didn’t have access like others, even when I served, I wasn’t a commissioner neither was I the Chairman of IGR, and that is why when I look back, it was God’s plan.