Peter Aiko Obobaifo is the Senatorial Candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP). In this interview with Francis Onoiribholo, he said that the Edo South Senatorial District is to benefit from altruistic representation now for the first time. Excerpts: Why do you want to go to the Senate? I am entering into a four-year legislative covenant with my dear constituency of Edo South Senatorial District with patriotic zeal and altruistic fire burning in my veins because I strongly believe that making laws in the ‘Upper House’ of a bicameral legislative system of government is a serious business that have for too long been left in the hands of people without the slightest milk of human kindness as far as Edo South is concerned. How else can one describe the continued relegation of Benin and her people in virtually all spheres of human endeavour as if we have not been ‘electing’ people to represent us? Benin has been variously labeled as; Great Benin, Cradle of Black Civilization, Custodian of African Traditional Heritage, Home of Culture, etc. However, there are many attitudinal dispositions that political office holders exhibit which tendentiously negate these attributes that Benin kingdom has worn as befitting  garland these past centuries. As Prof. Peter P. Ekeh would put it, “Benin” is unique in bridging the African past with our present world. Ancient Africa experienced an abundance of civilization and State formations. They stretched back to ancient Egypt of some five millennia removed from our times through Kush, Ethiopia and other Nilotic traditions of Civilization to the triple state formations of Ghana, Mali and Songhai and the Hausa and Yoruba states of West Africa. Except for the more ancient instances of Egypt and Kush, which existed long before the Christian era, most of these State formations were contemporaries of Benin. Remarkably, with the single exception of Ethiopia and Benin, all the significant civilizations and the formations of ancient Africa ceased to exist, before the arrival of European imperialism introduced a new era in African affairs. However, in the 1970s, Ethiopia royalty collapsed, leaving Benin Monarchy as the sole survivor and exemplar of royalty from ancient times of African history. This short historical excursion is to indicate that very few of the erstwhile Benin political representatives fully know who they are and therefore, could be excused for taking Benin for granted all these while. If you don’t know where you are coming from, there is little hope that you will be able to chart a course away from perdition. When touts that they bred celebrated first One billion Naira mega wealth, we celebrated first Ten (10) full-fledged university professors mentored through the services of IBS. Some of them started using the facilities since 2001. I have therefore, personally come to change the narrative and position Benin and Edo South in proper legislative pedestal and national reckoning. This mandate I seek is to actualize the conscious regeneration, propagation and sustenance of the Benin culture, tradition with special emphasis on areas Benin has comparative advantage over all others; particularly in the Arts. In 1993, I forwarded a proposal to the Benin Traditional Council (BTC) on the way Benin would develop after the celebration of the then advent Centenary Celebration and we were working on the document before the cold hands of death tragically snatched Prince Ena Eweka away. Thereafter, I began implementing some of the items as my meager resources as a civil servant could execute.  Education has been seemingly taken away from many Benin people through the deliberate elevation of touting and thug mentorship, thereby discouraging the desire to acquire same by the impressionable youngsters when their visible ‘hero’ figures are those who neither bothered to go to school but are stupendously rich. Education therefore, remains the foremost obstacle to be tackled through the sought Senatorial seat. For example, it is highly distressing for scholars, researchers, historians, anthropologists, sociologists, political scientists and even undergraduate students of Edo origin and others in search of academic or scholarly materials and intellectual self-development to travel as far as Ibadan with all the attendant risks, costs of transportation and accommodation to access information from the Archives. Significant effort will be directed towards establishing Mini Libraries in all the Local Government Areas of the District while no effort will be spared in re-energizing the State Archives that has lain forlorn for decades. To ameliorate this sorry situation, I have in collaboration with of friend of mine established a Library and Research Centre using the platform of the Institute for Benin Studies (IBS). Without mincing words, this our Library in Benin City that at one time could boast of five libraries has remained the indispensable oasis in the dire search for academic and intellectual development of the Benin people. This I have done without government money or sponsorship. Why do you insist on contesting under a less popular party? Well, I refuse to accept the consideration of less popular. If you tell the truth, your friends will be few. Therefore, late Gani Fawehinmi had an idea, had ideals and had ideology and lived and died for all these. The Manifesto of the NCF has no comparison as it is not among what the late Minister of Justice, Bola Ige referred to as “five leprous fingers” of the same hand. NCP is unique and therefore, cannot go into alliance with any of the political parties that do not take the welfare of Nigerians into recognition. Then education and mobilization has to take precedence over propping up of miscreants, uncouth and parvenu characters. Finally, the oft repeated slogan of ‘Edoirisiagbon’ must be given flesh with the deliberate instigation of the establishment of African Regional University of Science and Art (ARUOSA).This proposed university only requires the will and relevant legislation of the authorities to commence. Faculties will be allocated to African countries in form of land and each country would be encouraged to develop along the line of their most favourable science or art acuity. How do you hope to run ARUOSA if you win the election and the institution is established? I beg our pardon, you would have asked ‘when’ and not “if” you win the election. Notwithstanding, the personnel from the Vice Chancellor to the least would be sourced from all over Africa in a mutually competitive development race. Sickle Cell Anaemia that is typically melanin friendly would be isolated and researched to its minutest cell and eliminated. Mental health and orthopaedic management that the African treatment seemingly has proven efficiency would be developed alongside orthodox medicine. Just imagine 54 buildings rising up simultaneously in a 10 hectare land allocated to the establishment of this university in Edo State. If we tarry too long on this, I have a strong feeling that some persons somewhere underserving; would snatch the initiative and claim the due glory of Benin. Time to act is now and February 16, 2019 is the day. What is your massage to Edo People? Time for mediocre performance with insulting tokenism (spending less than 2% of total remuneration, allowances and allocation for the people and pocketing all of 98% is devilish) as constituency project(s) is over and one who has paid his dues in volunteerism and altruism is set to take the mantle. Some people who know have lamented that if readiness to cater for the welfare of Benin people and Edo South is the bone of contention, then I should be declared returned unopposed. Well I concede that the electorate will decide on the 16th of January, 2016