ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday commissioned the new Baro River Port Complex, constructed at a total cost of N6billion by a Chinese firm, CGCC Global Project Nigeria Limited. While commissioning the project, he pledged that if the All Progressive Congress (APC) is voted into power in the next political dispensation, more projects would come on stream. According to him, if the Baro River Port project had continued with the comprehensive master plan for the development of the Nigerian Inland Waterways spanning over 10,000 kilometers across 28 states of the country, as designed in his days as Chairman Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF), the carnages on the road of Lagos-Ibadan express way as a result of accidents and insecurity would have been minimized. Buhari who noted that sadly that while other governments came to organise, others came to destroy, assured that the Baro Port will be upgraded, the railway revived and dual carriage way provided to improve the economic activities of the port. Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello on his part said the people of Baro town were happy because the projects will provide jobs for both skilled and unskilled youths of the community. Chairman of the Nigerian Inland Water Ways (NIWA), Olorunnimbe Mamora, said the port was the realization of the master plan done under Buhari as Chairman PTF. He noted that with the huge benefits of inland water transportation and Baro’s strategic location for the evacuation of farm produce and other commodities, the present administration vigorously pursued the completion of the port hitherto abandoned by previous administration and ensured the provision of the required equipment for its effective and efficient functioning. Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, under whose watch the project was completed, noted that Baro town is rich with history because it served as the first place where Lord Luguard was housed before he eventually moved to Lokoja. The SGF recalled that Baro used to have a thriving river port and a railway line during the colonial era, used for evacuation of farm produce and mineral resources. He said the opening of the port will bring to life economic activities. The Minister of Transport, Rotimi Ameachi expressed the hope that the old rail lines used in the colonial days will be revived even as the road network linking the port is already being upgraded.