Lagos – Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr, has promised to inculcate any Flying Eagles stars that excel at the CAF U-20 Cup of Nations into the Super Eagles team that will play the last 2019 Africa Cup f of Nations qualifier against Seychelles and an international friendly against Egypt in March. Rohr consequently challenged the players to give their very best at the youth championship, saying he would be at the competition venue to pick the best Nigerian player and blood him in the senior squad. “I watched the team’s training session and I see they are good. They are ambitious and I will be in Niger Republic to see some of the matches,” Rohr who watched the team said on Wednesday in Abuja. “I have decided to pick one or two of them, the best ones, to give them a chance when we regroup for the matches against Seychelles and Egypt in March.” The Super Eagles, have qualified for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, but will host the Pirates of Seychelles at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba on 23rd March, in a mere academic session, and then welcome the Pharaohs of Egypt in a much –anticipated friendly at the same venue three days later. Meanwhile, the General Secretary of the Nigeria Football Federation, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, has charged the Flying Eagles on discipline, dedication and commitment as they head to Niger Republic for the 21st CAF U20 Cup of Nations kicking off on Saturday. Speaking during a visit to the team’s training session in Abuja on Wednesday; Sanusi harped on the importance of discipline, noting that this is what would take the players to the top faster than even their talents. “Discipline and character are values that you must not take for granted. You may be the best player in the world, but without discipline, you would sooner find yourself on the scrap heap. Stories of exceptional talents who wasted away before they could climb successfully to the top, as a result of indiscipline, abound. I pray that your story will not be like any of those. “You are bearing the high expectations of 180 million Nigerians on your shoulders, but you cannot afford to fail. You are Ambassadors of our great country and good character and discipline are key in everything you do in Niger Republic and thereafter.” Sanusi assured the players that the Federation would do everything necessary to support the team to achieve its targets of World Cup ticket and AFCON title at the tournament. Seven –time champions Nigeria will confront host nation Niger Republic, South Africa and Burundi in Group A of the eight –nation tournament, taking place 2nd – 17th February. The Flying Eagles take on Burundi in their first match of the championship in Niamey on Saturday night. The Flying Eagles’s delegation to the 21st Africa Cup of Nations will depart the country on Thursday morning, to arrive in Niamey in the afternoon.