Olubankole Wellington, popularly known by his stage name Banky W, and credited in films as Banky Wellington, is a Nigerian singer, rapper and actor. His recent transition from the lover boy singer to politician has left many surprised. In this interview with Ifeoma ONONYE, he speaks on why he chose Modern Democratic Party (MDP) and why nothing can bully him out of the race. Excerpt: Your music gave you off as a loverboy and now you are a politician. A lot of people are yet to wrap their mind around the transition. Did you ever dream that you would become a politician? I have always seen myself as someone with a voice and with a certain amount of relevance and a big enough platform. I wanted to be someone that uses that big enough platform and relevance to influence government, to influence policies, to influence my country and the citizens. In a sense, I saw myself more like a Martin Luther King who would say and do things to influence the state of things in the country, rather than being a politician myself. But what dawned on me is that too many of us have been sitting around waiting for the right leaders to come along or waiting for the right kind of politicians to come along. We keep waiting for people that would see things the way we see things and the more we wait, the more the same people come back into power. If someone like me comes with the intentions I have and with the intelligence that I know that I have; the ideas and visions I have of what Nigeria could be, and with the kind of followership I am blessed to have, if someone like me does not get involved in politics, then who exactly am I waiting for to come along? That is why when I am out on the streets talking to the people, I tell them that the change has to begin with you and I. The truth is that we have been looking only to our leaders for change when we should be looking in the mirror. Each of us has the responsibility to do everything within our power, within our access to make Nigeria better. And if I am serious about that, then I should practice what I preach. What about the general saying that politics is a dirty game, did you think of that? When I was speaking to my wife about running for office and I was trying to get her permission, one of the things she said was that politics is very dirty and dangerous. She said she didn’t want anything that would come along and soil me or get me dirty or harm me. What I told her is that politics in Nigeria is dirty because the good people never get involved in it. The good people that you know, people who are achievers, people who build companies, people who empower young people, people who have made something work in this Nigeria; those people stay away because politics is dangerous and dirty. But how is it ever going to be clean if the good people never get involved? And that was what I told her. Maybe what I am doing will inspire other good people, other credible candidates to get involved. If that happens, that is inspiring more credible people to get involved; that alone makes it a success. How long did you nurse this dream of coming into politics to see what you can do? I probably resisted the dream more than I nursed it for a while. I say that because people who interfaced with me over time right from when I was in school, at my former place of work, when I was a musician and a speaker, engaging with young people, many felt that I should be involved in politics. They thought I should enter into leadership and governance. At the time, it was not something I was ready to accept. What tipped the scales for me was that at every election, I have been a vocal critic of bad governance. Not just during elections, but for over 10 years. I have gone on every protest, whether it is ‘Enough is enough’, whether it is ‘Occupy Nigeria’ or ‘Bring back our girls’ I am always there. I have been on the ‘Go get your PVCs’ drive. Those were the times I accepted my involvement in helping change the system. When I started that get your PVC drive once more like last year, I was a little frustrated because it felt like our generation didn’t get it or were too frustrated with the system to care and I felt, maybe they need some inspiration. Maybe they need to see somebody that they know, somebody they can believe in, somebody that they can relate with. I felt that if the young people are given a rallying point with someone that can say ‘yes, this time it can be different, maybe that can be the spark that wakes this generation up. The truth is that if our generation does not wake up and infiltrate our government at every level and we have credible candidates at all levels of government, we will be in the same position that we are or worse. That was the reason that made me enter the race. The chairman of MDP, while registering the party, he was encouraging me to think about running, I was telling him “No, not yet”. I kept resisting, but eventually, I wrapped my head around it and I am glad that I did. Some get bullied out of the race; do you ever see yourself being bullied out? I can live with trying and failing at something, but I can’t live with not trying. I feel like if I get into governance, I know I will do a good job. I feel like I will do a good job as the representative for Eti-Osa Local Government. I feel like I will do a good job as a leader in governance in Nigeria. And for me, I feel like I want more people with the right mindset, people with good intentions and people with the right intelligence and integrity to be in the Senate, House of Representatives and this is why I have offered myself. I know it is not going to be easy. I know that it is going to be difficult and that the system is rotten and decayed. At this point, I have two options, I can either give it a shot, try my best to do a good job and see where that leads me or I can sit on the sidelines like everybody else and just complain. So let me just try. If I try and it does not work out, I will be glad that I did try at least. Not trying is no longer an option for me. What if they come and dump bags with large sums of money on you and ask you not to run anymore, what will your answer be? I have technically sacrificed money to do what I am doing. The income that I have made as an entertainer, as an influencer and a media agency owner is considerably more than what I would have access to as a House of Representative member. Anyone of the endorsement deals that I have had is worth a significant amount of money and I have already made that sacrifice to say that all of that money is not important to me because, for me, it’s more than money. It’s about impact. What legacy am I leaving behind for myself and my children, my generation, my country? Those are the things driving me now. I want to go down in history as one of the people that changed the narratives and made things a bit better. I have already made these financial sacrifices, so getting into office to make money that I was already making does not make sense. What I stand to do for my community and my legacy if I get into office is worth more than the contract that endorsements will give me. They can only bully people who see money as a goal. Listening to your music and listening to you speak at events gives you off as a principled person. What if the ethics of this dirty politics start getting in the way of your principles? I am a principled person. I believe in God. I answer to God, I answer to my wife, I answer to my family. I answer to a set of morals and ethics that were instilled in me from the get-go. If something comes along that is going to compromise my ethics and what I believe in and what I stand for, and I need to accept that in order to move forward or move to the next level, then that thing is not for me. If it is going to require for me to stoop to a certain level, then it’s not for me. I will know that I tried and I failed and I would go and try something else. One has to have standards and principles. In Nigeria and especially Lagos, it is believed that if you are not in APC or PDP then you are not in the winning team, how come you chose MDP? I think the people feel that way because, to their credit, APC and PDP have built formidable machines. They have built structures, built their parties and built their networks of people and have advanced to people who are on their payrolls being able to mobilise their base. For young people, I always say that rather than complain about the way they are doing things, why don’t we try to build our own party. Everybody complains about APC and PDP. The reason those parties are where they are is that 30 years ago, they built something. They made an attempt to build a structure, to get into governance and to grow. The largest voter constituency in Nigeria is people that don’t show up; people who are too frustrated, too suspicious, too tired, too lazy, basically, people who do not believe in the system that don’t show up. They are the people who have the most power. In the last presidential election, there were 90 million registered voters; only 28 million voted, which is less than a third. In my constituency, Eti-Osa, in the last elections for the House of Representatives, there were 250,000 eligible registered voters and only 56,000 came out to vote. The person that won House of Representatives seat in this constituency won with 28,000 votes. What that tells you is that there is an opportunity when Nigerians understand that there is power in voting. 200,000 people who had the power to sway that election decided not to do it. I am talking to those 200,000 people who registered but felt they would only vote for the presidential and governorship candidates. And I am saying to them, if you believe in APC or PDP, there is no problem. But if you want to believe in a group of young people that are starting a movement that will put credible candidates in different areas of government across the country but are just starting with one or two communities and see if they can prove it here, then join Modern Democratic Party (MDP). Come and build with us, let us build the party for the next four, eight, 12 years, so that eventually there will be a third force. So in order words, you are not scared that APC is the party that rules Lagos? If I was afraid, I wouldn’t be here. For me to be in the race, I am not afraid. Also, I think that there are things that we need to get right as a country. For instance, I think in every position of the government, we need to become a one-term government until we have people that get it right and deserve a second term. Second terms should not be automatic. Governance is nobody’s birthright. If you are elected into a government office and you goof, you can go and let us try somebody else. I also think that at this point we cannot afford our political race to be just about the party. It has to be about credible people. People should look at different candidates and choose whom they believe is credible enough; it is their right as citizens. This is the point we need to get to. Voting for candidates we believe in and not just voting because that is the party everybody is voting. What are your plans to bring the 200,000 people you are speaking to over to your side? We are doing everything by the book. We go out every weekend, door to door to engage the community and the grassroots. We started since I announced my intentions to run. We are speaking to the people on the street. We have been pushing through online as well. We have a heavy volunteer strategy. We are trying to raise an army of 5000 volunteers who will commit to convince at least 10 people to vote MDP in the community. We are using traditional and social media. Just by campaigning, we are doing what we can to provide health care, adopting schools and making donations. I personally have been doing that over the years and now we have added it to the campaign so that people will know that these are things they should expect from their politician. When you go door to door, don’t people get distracted by seeing you and forget whatever you came for and want to take a selfie? If they forget, I remind them. I am a pretty engaging speaker. I don’t care if they come for a selfie, I just care that they come. How has the support been from your fellow entertainers? They have been great. Some of them have reposted the campaign materials online. We are hoping that when the events start that some of them can come and perform. But as for social media and online, the entertainment community has been great. Let’s say you win House of Representatives, are we to expect you to run for Senate, governorship? When you get a job and do it very well, you earn the right to ask for a bigger one. For now, my main concern is to see if I can spend the next four years working as a member of the House of Representatives to make my community better. After I get this one I am asking for and do it well, then we can sit down and talk about the next level. You seem to be good at every career you put your hands in, how do you do that? First, it’s the grace of God. Then it’s about hard work, focus and setting standards for yourself. And also about not giving up on yourself. You also stepped down music for a while, we have not had a single from you in a while? I cannot totally walk away from music because I love music a lot. It is just that at a certain point, some passions and goals will take precedence over others. That is why it seems movies and politics are taking the front seat. I was the lead actor and co-executive producer of ‘Up North’ that dropped on December 28, 2018, which is still in the cinemas. I am always open to growth and expansion. I am always moving up to the next thing whenever I feel I have conquered one career. Seeing how successful you have been in most things you have dabbled into, no one can really tell what you read in school… I read Industrial Engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in America. It is one of the top engineering schools in America. I believe education is the utmost form of empowerment. It gives you the ability to deal with life generally. How do you feel every time you see Wizkid and how big he has become? Completely proud. He is the biggest success story that we have in Empire Mates Entertainment. His and my relationship is deeper than any fame. Back in secondary school, were you one of the happening boys in school? Maybe you will have to ask my classmates from back then. The only thing I know is that I was always involved in many activities in school. I was always in the drama group, music group, choir group. I was the assistant head of the debate team. When I had the chance, I played football. I have always had multiple interests going on at the same time. I am thankful to my school, Home Science Association Secondary School in Alakuko. The teachers gave me many opportunities to express myself and grow. All the things that I do now, I can trace back to my Junior Secondary School, JSS 1, 2 and JSS3. With all those activities back then, did you have time for social life, like asking girls out? I am a married man now and old things have passed away. I only know my wife, thank you very much.