ADO-EKITI – Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi has put the debts left behind by his predecessor, Ayodele Fayose at N155,791,785,214.08. Delivering the address at the State House of Assembly, Governor Fayemi said the sum was the total debt profile of Ekiti State as at October 16, 2018. Fayemi said he inherited “a state that was in total chaos and a people severely disorientated under a suppressive government who had raised and promoted deceit into statecraft.” Fayemi spoke just as the Speaker of the House , Adediran Alagbada lamented that the immediate past administration of ex-Governor Fayose, denied the House members their salaries and furniture allowances despite making appropriations that covered such expenses. The governor stated that his administration had distanced itself from “political witch-hunting and media trials to score cheap political goals” but decided to give the state of the state in order to use the “lessons of the past to create the future of our dreams”. Fayemi disclosed that Ekiti State under Fayose received N184.83 billion as income between 2014 and 2018; noting that the former governor had no reason to owe salaries given the huge revenue that accrued to the state during the immediate past administration. While giving a breakdown of the debt profile, Fayemi said though borrowing is in itself not a bad thing, borrowing to fund self-serving and unproductive projects is unpatriotic. The governor stated that he had used the first 100 days of his administration to “lay the needed foundation to restore our values and restore Ekiti State to its rightful position in the comity of states”. “This is our first stewardship in the series of others to be witnessed in the life of this administration in the fulfilment of our obligation to Ekiti people. As a government, we are more interested in building and strengthening institutions rather than wielding powers or self-aggrandisement. This is the world best practice in governance and we are proud to thread that path to attain speedy economic recovery and value restoration for Ekiti State”, he said. He called on corporate organisations, donor agencies, the federal government and Ekiti people to support his administration in moving Ekiti State forward “economically, socially and politically”.