ADO-EKITI – Heads of some tertiary institutions in Ekiti State have been indicted over alleged financial mismanagement and abuse of office by the visitation panels set up by governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi. This was parts of the resolutions reached at the state executive council meeting presided over by Governor Fayemi in Ado-Ekiti. The governor had on assumption of set up the visitation panels to review the operational and financial activities of the affected institutions. Briefing newsmen, the Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, said the council considered the white paper on each of the institutions and some decisions on them. He said part of the decisions taken was that the government must set up functional governing councils in all the institutions to be able to implement panels’ decisions in line with the laws. The institutions are: Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti (EKSU), College of Education, Ikere Ekiti, College of Science and Health Technology, Ijero, Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti (EKSUTH) and the Broadcasting Service of Ekiti State (BSES). Those that may either be removed or prosecuted by anti graft agencies are: Vice Chancellor of EKSU, Prof Samuel Oye Bandele, Provost of the College of Education, Prof Mojisola Oyarekua, former Director General of BSES and Fayose’s media aide, Lere Olayinka, EKSUTH Chief Medical Director, Dr Kolawole Ogundipe and ex-Provost of College of Health Science and Technology, Ijero Ekiti, Pastor David Ojo. “The Ekiti State Executive Council during its meeting of Wednesday and Friday of January 17 and 19 respectively received the white paper on the recommendations of the visitation panels by each of the institutions in the state and gave approval for their implementations. “Council observed a general trend of leadership and administrative challenges in the institutions. “It also observed abuse of office and financial recklessness in some of the institutions. “It was decided that government would take immediate steps to put in place governing councils in the five institutions that will be saddled with the responsibility of implementing the recommendations contained in the white paper. “The state government is committed to ensuring that all institutions in the state are repositioned for excellent service delivery,” Oyebode said. However, Oyebode did not go into the details of the recommendations, but it was gathered that many of the affected heads of the institutions would be handed over to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for prosecution.