The billboards, posters of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidates in Ebonyi State have been defaced with acidic substances by persons suspected to be members of the All Progressive Congress (APC). The posters and billboards mounted at the Pa Ngele Stadium Abakaliki were not left out. This is just as President Muhammadu Buhari just arrived the state to flag off his campaign ahead of the elections. The President is currently meeting with Governor David Umahi and members of the state executive council at the Executive Council Chambers Government House, Abakaliki before proceeding to the state township stadium, venue of the rally. The state’s Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Charles Akpu-Enika, in a press briefing in Abakaliki, Wednesday explained that the state governor, David Umahi  had five days ahead of the visit of President Mohammadu Buhari for APC rally approved that the stadium be given to the APC for the rally, only for them to damage the bill boards and posters of the PDP candidates. “The governor even released money for diesel, renovation of the stadium for the purpose of the rally. Is it not evil for a man that demonstrated such courtesy to be rewarded with destruction of his bill boards and posters? “I called the Director of State Security Services (DSS) who came with the Commissioner of Police and the Commandant of
the Civil Defence and they saw these things. It is provocative but Governor Umahi has insisted that we should not react”, he stated. He noted that violence was not exclusive to the APC, “but we can’t but obey our governor who has severally insisted that we should not fight
back the APC assaults. Last week, they went round town destroyed PDP
posters, spoilt the bill boards. They even threw stones on the glass covering the VIP section of the stadium.  This was an abandoned
stadium; Umahi came in as governor and restructured it to become the
one of the best in any state in Nigeria”. Akpu-Enika said the governor has done so well that he does not even
need to stress himself with campaigns. ”Of course you would notice that he is rather going about the local government areas flagging off new projects and truly doing the projects. That is a new form of authentic
campaign. Talk and do”.