Innocent Oweh and Justus Adejumoh Abuja / Lagos – A fresh twist to the national minimum wage emerged on Tuesday with members of the National Council of State (NCS) approving N27, 000 to state and private sector workers. Those at the federal civil service would get N30, 000 as minimum pay monthly. But labour leaders have rejected the N27, 000 new national minimum wage adopted by the NCS, saying the action may snowball into shutting down the economy. They were worried at an attempt to segregate between federal and state workers. Governors had last week met at the National Economic Council (NEC) at the Presidential Villa, where they may have succeeded in compelling the Federal Government to review the existing revenue formula to enable states meet the new wage demand. At a briefing anchored by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, after the Council of State meeting, which had in attendance, former Head of Interim National Government, Ernest Shonekan; Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, General Abdulsalami Abubakar and Goodluck Jonathan, he said council also approved frequency of review of five years, including exemptions for establishments that are not employing up to 25 persons. Ngige explained to State House correspondents that the national minimum wage bill will now be transmitted to the National Assembly before the close of work on Wednesday as agreed with the organised labour. He noted that the council took into consideration the National Tripartite Committee recommendations of N30,000, the Federal Government’s proposal of N24,000 and the governors proposed N22,700 before arriving at the decision. The minister gave assurance that despite the announcement by the National Assembly to proceed on recess until after the elections, the concerned committees in the National Assembly will continue work on the bill. The Tripartite Committee on Review of National Minimum Wage chaired by a former Head of Service of the Federation, Ms. Amal Pepple, had submitted the report, which contained the recommended figure, to President Muhammadu Buhari on November 6, 2018, after many months of deliberations. Prior to the committee’s recommendation, in October, state governors had offered to pay N22,700 as minimum wage, citing paucity of funds on their part. The governors had expressed concerns that N30,000 as minimum wage would have increased their fiscal burden such that most states would have gone bankrupt. A development that prompted labour to issue strike threats. Similarly, on January 8, 2019, the Nigeria Labour Congress held a nationwide protest over what they termed delay tactics by the Federal Government to transmit a new minimum wage bill to the National Assembly. Reacting to the development, Peter Ozo-Eson, General Secretary, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), said the council has no jurisdiction in determining a new amount after a tripartite committee has submitted its report to the Federal Government. The NLC said it is abysmal of government to continue to delay the submission of an Executive Bill to the National Assembly and by wrongfully adopting N27,000 through the Council of State. The scribe said the NLC leadership has summoned a National Executive Council meeting for Friday where they will weigh other options, including the deadline given to government within which to submit an Executive Bill to the National Assembly for passage. He insisted that such action by the government may snowball into a shutdown of the economy, saying workers should not be held responsible for any development after its NEC meeting on Friday. In the same vein, Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) also rejected the N27, 000 recommended by the National Council of State. According to TUC President, Comrade (Dr.) Bobboi Bala Kaigama, “This decision must not be allowed to stand because it will set a wrong precedence for the future, i.e after statutory bodies have done their jobs, Council of State will now sit to review it. “Let it be known that N30, 000 minimum wage is a product of negotiation, not legislation, not advice and not a decree. Minimum wage issue, therefore, is moving to a new theatre, the National Assembly. We expect the representatives of the people if really they are to do the needful during the public hearing.” Expressing his position on the development, United Labour Congress (ULC) President, Comrade Joe Ajaero, said that the Council of State is not a negotiating machinery that can advise on salaries and wages issues. “The emerging news of the unfortunate decision of the Federal Government through the National Council of State to unilaterally propose N27,000 as the new National Minimum Wage is shocking and goes against the grain of all known traditions and practices of industrial relations especially as it concerns National Minimum Wage setting framework. “ULC rising from its just concluded Central Working Committee (CWC) meeting today (yesterday) in Lagos rejects in its entirety the proposed N27,000 which is contrary to the N30,000 agreed by the National Minimum Wage Tripartite Committee and which has since been submitted to the president. “It is also important that we make it clear that the National Council of State does not have powers to approve, confirm, affirm or accept any figure as the new National Minimum Wage. What they have pretended to have done is therefore without any force of law, standards or other known practices of industrial relations the world over. “It is a mockery of the essence and principle behind the setting of a National Minimum Wage to attempt to segregate it between federal workers and state workers. We want to state that workers are workers everywhere whether at the federal level or at the state level. They all have the same challenges; go to the same market, same schools and much more they suffer the same fate. You cannot therefore pay them differently.” ULC president said that the National Council of State in a National Minimum Wage setting mechanism is an aberration. The congress said government’s attempt at this dichotomy is an effort at segregation and apartheid in nature and an attempt to put a sword within the trade union movement and to further the marginalisation of private sector workers in Nigeria thus seek to weaken the trade union movement in the country. Meanwhile, the National Council of State has expressed satisfaction with preparations by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct general elections next month. The governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, said the members expressed satisfaction after the briefing by INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu. Akeredolu, who said the briefing was all encompassing, said the INEC chairman took the council through all the processes that are going to be followed at the national and state elections. Among prominent political figures that participated in the meeting included Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Senate President Bukola Saraki; former Chief Justice of the Federation, Mohammed Uwais, while state governors included those of Osun, Kebbi, Zamfara, Plateau, Ebonyi, Adamawa, Edo, Lagos, Niger, Borno, Ogun, Ekiti, Kogi as well as the deputy governors of Bauchi, Kaduna, and Rivers. Others present are the National Security Adviser (NSA), Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd); Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; Head of Service of the Federation, Winifred Oyo-Ita; Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), and Mohammed Bello.