ABUJA – Nigeria’s delegation to the 2019 edition of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, made a strong case for the country’s economic priorities within the development policy framework of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). The delegation was led by Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, Minister of Budget and National Planning, and Dr. Okechukwu Enyinna Enelamah, Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment. Bisi Daniels, Strategy and Communications Adviser to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment in a statement yesterday, said the ministers engaged with government representatives from other regions, business leaders, and multinational economic operators, representing sectors that are principal drivers of economic growth. The engagements were within the framework of the government for economic, trade and investment reform priorities to enhance trade flows and attract FDI for economic modernisation, growth and job creation. Udoma, who participated in the session on Shaping a New Architecture on the Global Economy, also participated at the African Ministers of Finance and Economic Development on Africa’s Growth Agenda, during which ministers took stock of economic issues and explored ways of deepening intra-African growth. Udoma held a number of bilateral meetings, including the meeting with Ivo Menzinger, the Managing Director of Swiss Re Management Limited. In the meetings, Udoma reiterated that “Nigeria remains Africa’s number one economy and the Federal Government of Nigerai, in partnership with the private sector, shall continue to take all necessary measures to improve this position”. Dr. Enelamah also participated at a number of meetings with counterpart ministers responsible for international trade. These include the Ministerial Meeting on Electronic Commerce; the Annual Meeting of Trade Ministers; a bilateral meeting with Ignazio Cassis, the Swiss Foreign Minister, and meetings with investors, including representatives of Heineken and Citibank. At the ministerial meeting on Electronic Commerce, participating ministers confirmed their intention to commence negotiations on trade-related aspects of ecommerce.