Jos – Betty Wabunoha, the country representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Nigeria, has charged media organizations in Nigeria to report the general election in the country professionally and in manner that would not set the country on fire. Wabonoha gave this advice to journalists from North Central geo-political zone in Jos at a workshop organised by the organization and the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He said since voters and candidates rely the media to receive information, the journalists should be fair in their reportage during this year’s elections in order not to ignite fire of conflict in the country. Represented by Mathew Alao, the UNDP boss said that it was critical to have an open and diverse media that could provide a balanced and impartial coverage and equitable access for competing candidates and parties. He urged journalists to be conscious and careful when undertaking their assignments before, during and after the elections, and added that national interest should be uppermost in in their mind. He said the position held by media in society makes them a target through capture by interest group or party, adding that public opinion is swayed for or against issues, groups or candidates through such. “In some contexts, this has fueled election-related conflict and violence. It is our hope that this does not happen in Nigeria”, he said, adding that UNDP partnership with media would continue to focus on exploring avenues for strengthening the country’s position in leading by example, through promotion of peace and unity. Speaking on the objectives of the workshop, he said that it was designed to build capacity of journalists to identify potential sources of election-related violence and report it to appropriate authorities for action. “Promote a conflict-sensitive reporting culture among media practitioners, sensitize the media on key elements to lookout for when reporting on elections, especially in conflict-sensitive settings and create opportunities for networking among media practitioners towards a proactive conflict sensitive reportage around elections and other socio- economic issues in Nigeria,” he said.