Abuja – Abia leaders, in conjunction with a coalition of civil societies,  have petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Judicial Council (NJC) demanding full scale investigation into the circumstances surrounding  the suspension of the resumed trial of former governor of the state over alleged N7.6 billion fraud levelled against him by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) . Speaking on behalf of the group at a press conference at the weekend, Chief Julius Ogbuagu said the long delay in the trial of the APC chieftain and his active participation in electioneering campaign under the close watch of security operatives in the state would further cast doubt in the anti-corruption crusade of the present government. The group, in the petition to be submitted this week reiterated their earlier demand for the speedy trial of Chief Kalu, adding, “the people of Abia are anxiously waiting for the out come of the trial of the alleged N7.6 billion fraud “We have earlier alerted the president and other relevant authorities of the desperate plot by the former governor to evade justice in his celebrated trial and we insisted that his claimed ill-health was a ploy to delay his trial. “Our people and indeed  other patriotic Nigerians were stunned to see the same Chief Kalu who was reported to have been in a German hospital for surgery participate actively in APC rally on Friday in the state. And this was done right under the nose of the anti-graft agency, the police and other APC chieftains” The group further disclosed that Mohammed Idris of the Federal High Court in Lagos had on Wednesday said the court would await further directives to proceed with the trial of a former governor of Abia State, Orji Kalu, on charges of N7.2 billion fraud. Demanding an explanation on why the trial was suspended indefinetely, the Abia leaders and stakeholders said, “our question is who will give this further directive in this case and why would a trial that started since 2016 be so suspended indefinitely despite public outcry. “We need to know if it is political or judicial directive that the judge was referring to in this case. The trial judge should be magnanimous enough to tell us which directive is he waiting for. “We therefore demand immediate reopening and speedy trial of the former governor.  The former governor has boasted to some people that he was untouchable. We want President Buhari to know this and call him to order.” At the last adjourned date on November 12, 2018, the group pointed out that Kalu was absent from trial, after being absent on a previous adjourned date of November 5, 2018. “Although the defence counsel had informed the court that he was away for medical treatment in Germany, the court had revoked his bail and ordered that at the point of his entry into the country, he must submit himself and all relevant travelling documents to the EFCC, failing which he would be arrested. The court had then adjourned the case until January 23, for the continuation of trial. “On Wednesday, the prosecutor, Mr Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), appearing for the prosecution, informed the court that in spite of its order, the accused had refused to submit himself or his travelling documents to the EFCC,” the group said.