UYO – One of the notable Nigerians spotlighted for posterity at the 2018 Independent Newspaper awards is the Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Rt Hon. (Barr) Onofiok Luke who clinched the prestigious award of an Outstanding legislator of the year. The 40 year old Speaker, currently doing his second term in the House of Assembly as member representing Nsit Ubium state constituency, and youngest of the legislators of the sixth assembly, on the auspicious occasion shared the stage of honour with other eminent Nigerians like, Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa, Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, the Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu as well as the Governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi who were conferred with different categories of award. Other distinguished Nigerians honoured at the award night held at the Signature Hall of the Eko Hotels and Suites, Lagos State also included Founder, Afe Babalola University, Afe Babalola, Samuel Adedoyin, Chairman, Doyin group of Companies and John Nnia Nwodo, President-General, Ohaneze Ndigbo, among other notable Professional in the Public and Private Sectors of the nation’s economy. The award was handed over to the Speaker who is currently the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for the Etinan Federal Constituency in the Forthcoming National Assembly elections, by the Lagos State gubernatorial candidate of the PDP, Jimi Agbaje. It could be recalled that the Managing Director and Editor-in-chief of the Independent Newspaper titles, Ade Ogidan, while presenting the company’s award nomination letter to Barr Luke last month in his House of Assembly Office, Uyo had said that the selection committee “considered the patriotism, commitment and courage” with which Barr Luke has performed his duties since assumption of office in 2015. Independent Newspapers Limited, according to Ogidan also noted the cordial relationship existing between the state legislature and the executive. “It is even more striking to note that under your leadership, critical bills that are so fundamental to the growth and development of Akwa Ibom State, and indeed the residents, have been passed into law by the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly. “These include bills to fast track economic development and diffuse the dividends of democracy directly to the masses, bills to strengthen local government administration in the state, bills to hasten the dispensation of Justice, bills to fortify the state’s educational system, particularly at the tertiary level; bills to boost the revenue base of Akwa Ibom, bills to meet the social health and infrastructural needs of the people and environmental protection laws”, the nomination later read in part. The organizers of the award had also noted, with deep satisfaction, Luke’s strides and accomplishments in the leadership of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly which has steadily and consistently intervened in and defended the interest of Akwa Ibom people. Also to the outstanding legislator’s credit were his sponsorship of 10 private member Bills, seven of which have been passed into law. His innovations in the leadership of the 6th Assembly which has to its credit, 35 motions and more than 120 House Resolutions. His insistence on regular constituency briefing and empowerment by every member of the sixth assembly and the decision to subject every bill, especially the yearly appropriation bills to Public Hearing. A voiceover presented just before he stepped forward for his award indicated that the former Speaker of the National Youth Parliament and former Student Union Government President (SUG) of the University of Uyo, has from inception been notable for his constant fight for the liberation of others. This however has not been without a price, as he was said to have lost an entire school session as law student for taking a stance against fee increment, due to his concern for the less privileged students. Receiving the award, Akwa Ibom Speaker, flanked by over 20 of his colleagues, dedicated the honour to the Almighty God, his colleague members of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, the performing Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Ibom people and his family. The Speaker said his decision to go into public service was to correct the ills of the society and contribute to the change he desires. Luke said the Legislature has given him and his colleagues the platform to daily carry out their legislative duties and ensure not only the growth and development of Akwa Ibom, but the well-being of her people through the people centered Bills passed and several others at different legislative stages. He expressed the optimism that very soon, the not too privileged men and women in rural communities who hitherto experienced difficulties in educating and feeding their children, would have a country they can be proud of – a Nigeria of peace, security and safety, where individuals irrespective of ethnic and religious inclinations, can co – exist and realise their dreams and aspirations. “I dedicate this award first and foremost to God Almighty who raised a young boy from the dust to the seat. I dedicate this award to my colleagues standing here, who chose me, the youngest of them all, as their Speaker and have stood by me since 2015 till today. I dedicate this award to the performing Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Governor Udom Gabriel Emmanuel. I dedicate this award to Akwa Ibom people who have stood with us and supported us to come this far. Also to my family. ‘I am happy today. When I decided to come into public service, there were things that I felt were not right in my country and I said I am going to change them and I found a platform in the Legislature. And by the grace of God, with the support of my colleagues, we have been able to bring certain changes in the Legislature in Akwa Ibom State and by extension we know that this Oasis will extend to Nigeria. “A Nigeria that we see, not from a privileged position, but the position of the rural men and women who cannot afford school fees for their children. We see a Nigeria where we can live safely. We see a Nigeria where we can realise our dreams. That has been my passion and I will not rest until we see that Nigeria that we can be proud of. Reacting to the award, the Chairman, Akwa Ibom State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Chairman of PDP state chairmen in Nigeria, Obong Paul Ekpo described Luke as one of the best products of the party, and the award as well deserved. He applauded Independent Newspapers Limited for making evaluations that no one could fault. “Every excellence-loving person would agree that the award was well deserved. From his days at SUG he has been one of those voices that no one could ignore, and i strongly believe that as he will be going to the national assembly (God willing), for Etinan Federal Constituency, he will be one of those voices that will ever be heard. Akwa Ibom is the Gilgal of excellence”. He said Also reacting to the award, the member representing Ukanafun State Constituency, Hon Otobong Akpan applauded Independent for the well-researched award. His words “The award is well deserved, looking at his record, his track record speaks for him. He deserves even more. He has done so well in his constituency,