There was no distinct supervisory framework for the pension system at the time – The Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) regulated the Fund Managers, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) – the Insurance Companies (who sometimes at that time performed Fund Management roles) and the Joint Tax Board (JTB) approved and monitored all private pension schemes with enabling powers from Schedule 3 of the Personal Income Tax Decree 104 of 1993. It is no surprise, therefore, that during the regime of President Olusegun Obasanjo from 1999 – 2003, when major privatization of Government assets was embarked upon, it was discovered that huge pension liabilities in the government corporations would pose a stumbling block to being able to successfully offload these corporations.  The liability of government at the time is put variously at between N1.6trn – N2.3trn. The pre-pension reform scenario describes clearly the rationale for pension reform.  The impetus was the yawning liability gap in government’s obligations to its workers, but the regime of the day must be credited for taking the opportunity to comprehensively review the pension system in Nigeria and deliver to us what today we have as the Contributory Pension Scheme. Thus with the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2004, a uniform set of laws guiding the administration of the management of pensions in both the Federal Public Sector and the Private sector was given birth to. The Reform With PRA 2004, the Nigerian Government introduced a Contributory Pension Scheme for the Federal Public Sector and the FCT as well as private sector organisations that had more than five workers in their workforce. Mirroring the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) in Chile, after which it was modelled, the scheme ushered in a savings system in which workers and employers contributed to lay aside funds specifically for the retirement of their workers. Thus, workers were to open individual retirement savings accounts (RSAs) to which they would contribute monthly, 7.5% of their emoluments, with a compensatory 7.5% contribution by the employer. To sanitise the administration of pensions, the RSAs were to be managed by licensed private sector organizations known as Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs), from whom the workers were to make a choice of where to open their RSAs. The Pension Fund Custodians (PFCs) were introduced to be the repository of the workers (and employers) contributions.  The PFAs were to make a selection of the PFCs of their preference.  This brought about a functional role separation that provides practical safeguards for the pension system. For the very first time in Nigeria, an apex body was established to oversee all pension operators and activities in the National Pension Commission (Pencom). In contrast to the former chaotic system characterised by lack of proper funding, unstructured records of pensions and pensioners, need to effect lengthy verification exercises, several huge incidents of fraud, the introduction of the CPS is nothing short of a revolution in this Country. Implementation Of CPS The PRA 2004 exempted workers who had three years or less to retirement from June 30th 2004.  These categories of workers were to maintain whatever previous arrangements they had prior to the CPS. Likewise, for public sector workers who were to join the CPS, their pension entitlements from the old defined benefit arrangement were to be morphed into a bond owed them by the government to be redeemed when they retire. The government by law opened with the CBN the Retirement Benefit Bond Redemption Fund Account (RBBRF) into which it is to pay a sum equivalent to 5% of the monthly wage bill to provide for this obligation, which is also known as the accrued rights of the workers. The CPS in over 12 years of its implementation has seen the Assets Under Management grow significantly, from the deficit position of circa N1.6trn it was at in 2004. Societal Impact: With the large pool of long-term savings, many interests in the Nigerian society see the money from the pension funds as the sole provider of development funding.  Although this is an erroneous position, the pension community is increasingly working to see how it can be more impactful in its investment of pension funds without losing its primary objective which is to manage pension funds in such a way as to pay workers their benefits as and when due. Opportunities The CPS covers less than 10% of Nigeria’s workforce.  Much of the balance of 90% is in the informal sector.  Active efforts are being developed to tap effectively into this market opportunity. The Contributory Pension Scheme has proven to be the most viable and sustainable arrangement for pensions in Nigeria.  13 years of its implementation still places it in the description of a young scheme. Governments across all levels in Nigeria will do well to guard this invaluable economic jewel that has been established and see ways to enhance its development rather than hinder its practice.