Nigeria CAF Champions League representative, Lobi Stars, will be guest of ASEC Mimosa of Cote d’ Ivoire in their CAF Champions League second group game in Abidjan today. The match billed for the Stade Félix Houphouët- Boigny in Abidjan will see Lobi playing a wounded ASEC that lost their first group game 2-5 to Wydad of Morocco. Their host will need this match bounce back into reckoning in the group, hence Lobi must play with caution. Lobi are playing a team that have kept clean sheets in four of their five Champions League fixtures and won all two matches in their 45,000 capacity stadium. Lobi Stars will have to tighten their defence particularly in the first half, the period their hosts had scored in all their home fixtures, and also be on the watch out for Abdoul Tapsoba, ASEC’s goal poacher with two goals in five matches. Having won their opening game, they will be seeking to consolidate on that stride ahead of their back-to-back matches against group top seed Wydad Casablanca. But ASEC wouldn’t like to suffer yet another defeat so soon. Solomon Ogbeide, Lobi Stars coach assured that on Friday that were well prepared for a “very tough’’ match. “We have been in a closed camp in Ijebu Ode since on Sunday, training very hard for the match in Abidjan and correcting the mistakes noticed in our first game against Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa. “As you are aware, there are no small teams in the group and we are still the underdogs because the other three teams, ASEC, Wydad and Sundowns are past winners of the CAF Champions League. “We haven’t won anything yet but we can now build on the victory against Sundowns to focus on our next game against ASEC. “We have a good spirit and remain positive going away to face our opponents and we are going to take the game to them in Abidjan,’’ he said. He believes his squad can change their underdog status in the competition with a win. “We have a good spirit; and remains positive going for the game, and we are going to take the game to them in Abidjan,” Ogbeide assured. “We know ASEC are a very good side and we can’t judge them with the loss against Wydad,” Lobi Stars’ new recruit from Enyimba, Oluwadamilare Ojo told CAFOnline.com. “Though we respect ASEC because of their pedigree and being former winner of the CAF Champions League, we would ensure we return from Abidjan with a positive result.”