Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie The impossible has finally become possible!  A dream has just come true. A transformation has just taken place. Thank God, You are now in a new year! Those who thought you will not make it must be disappointed. If you really want to know what is special about the New Year, try to visit the mortuary; you will be surprise to see the number of persons who could not make it into the New Year. Have you even forgotten that almost every week of last year there were series of burials? Yet, none of those burials were organised for you! Be grateful to God for your life. Now that you have made it, remember, to whom much is given much is expected. The first thing you must do is to let go of the past. As the Prophet Isaiah 43:18-19 rightly declares, “Do not remember the former things, or consider the things of old. 19 I am about to do a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert.” Focusing on the things of the past is a very big distraction. The past can never come back again. We cannot undo what has been done. Instead of waiting our precious time on the past events, we should focus on the divine agenda. What is this divine agenda, you may ask. The Lord declares through the Prophet Jeremiah 29:11, “For surely I know the plans I have for you, says the LORD, plans for your welfare and not for harm, to give you a future with hope.” A future with hope is the essence of this year’s divine agenda. As long as this New Year is concerned, there is still hope for you. Even if you are the worst sinner the Lord God is ready to accept you. He is giving you another chance. The Lord declares through the prophet Isaiah 1:18, “Come now, let us argue it out, says the LORD: though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be like snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. 19 If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land; 20 but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured by the sword; for the mouth of the LORD has spoken.” This is good news! The Lord wants the best for you and that is why He has blessed you with a new year. Even your sin is as old as the old year the Lord is able and is willing to make all things new for you. You will never see 2018 again in your life time because it is an old year. God will not discard you because of your old and sinful way of life. He is ever ready to cleanse you. With God’s mercy you can always begin anew. The experience of the New year is like the experience of young student who makes a lot of mistakes while writing. Each time he makes a mistake he always tries to erase the ink with spittle but the more he tries to do so the more ugly the paper look and at time part of the paper is turn. One day, the teacher saw him struggling to erase an error the teacher smiled and told him. “Don’t worry John instead of messing your paper, all you need is to cross the error and continue in a fresh line, when I see the crossover line I will definitely understand that it was a mistake.” For the first time in his life, John was relieved when he discovered that the teacher was not going to punish him for his mistakes. That was exactly what our Lord Jesus Christ did for us. He came and wipe away our sins with his precious blood. This is clearly depicted in the story of the sinful woman who was accused of committing adultery. The elders who caught her wanted her to be stoned to death but our Lord Jesus Christ told them, “Let anyone among you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her.” 8 And once again he bent down and wrote on the ground. 9 When they heard it, they went away, one by one, beginning with the elders; and Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him. 10 Jesus straightened up and said to her, “Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?” 11 She said, “No one, sir.” And Jesus said, “Neither do I condemn you. Go your way, and from now on do not sin again” (John 8:3-11). The sinful woman was discharged and acquitted! For this sinful woman that very day when she was discharged and acquitted was like a New Year for her. It was indeed a new beginning in her life. Within a twinkle of an eye all her past sins were blotted out. She was forgiven! Child of God, if our Lord Jesus Christ could grant this sinful woman the grace of a new beginning, the Lord will surely grant you the grace of a new beginning. With the authority He gave me as an ordained minister in John 20:23 that if I forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven… I declare you free from your sinful bondage and I cancel all the charges the enemies are bringing against you, in Jesus name – Amen! As long as this New Year is concern, the devil has no charge against you. God will not allow him to condemn you. Although he will try to condemn you as St. John describes him as the thief who comes to steal, to kill and to destroy (John 10:10), but thank God our Lord Jesus Christ has come that you may have life in abundance. With our Lord Jesus Christ, therefore and as long as this New Year is concerned, nobody can condemn you. As St. Paul declares in his second letter to the Corinthians 5:17 “If anyone is in Christ, there is a new creation: everything old has passed away; see, everything has become new! You are not just an old person that was transferred into a new year. Even your life has been transformed. You are a new creature! Finally, as the Lord has transformed your life everything around you is about to be transformed. Just as the Lord declares in the book of Isaiah 65:17 concerning this New Year: “For I am about to create new heavens and a new earth; the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind. 18 But be glad and rejoice forever in what I am creating; for I am about to create Jerusalem as a joy, and its people as a delight. 19 I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and delight in my people; no more shall the sound of weeping be heard in it, or the cry of distress. 20 No more shall there be in it an infant that lives but a few days, or an old person who does not live out a lifetime… 21 They shall build houses and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. 22 They shall not build and another inhabit; they shall not plant and another eat; for like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. 23 They shall not labor in vain, or bear children for calamity; for they shall be offspring blessed by the LORD— and their descendants as well. Child of God, with this New year, your case is settled! You shall not labour in vain. You will surely enjoy the fruit of your labour. And it shall be well with you, in Jesus name – Amen!