The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), on Tuesday, announced that the issuance of Nigeria’s N100billion, 7-year Sukuk, would not only facilitate the mobilisation and allocation of funds within the economy, but would also serve to position the country as a gateway for foreign and domestic investors. SEC explained that the sukuk, which would help deepen the market, is sequel to its strong advocacy efforts to provide an additional asset class of tradable liquid instruments for investors in the Nigerian capital market. Sukuk is an Islamic bond, structured in such a way as to generate returns to investors without infringing Islamic law that prohibits riba or interest. Sukuk is said to be ‘Shariah compliant’ because it eliminates the interest elements that are associated with a conventional bond. “In 2013, the SEC issued Rules on Sukuk Issuance in Nigeria following which the State Government of Osun raised N11 billion (about $50 million) in the country’s first issuance, which was oversubscribed. “In ensuring that the Nigerian capital market plays a significant role in the success of Nigeria’s maiden sovereign Sukuk issuance, the SEC supported the Debt Management Office (DMO) specifically in the area of capacity building and participation at the Capital Market Committee’s sub-committee on non-interest products. Benefits Already, the Federal Government says the second tranche of the N100 billion Sovereign Sukuk bonds proceeds will be used to construct 642.69km roads across the nation. Mr Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Power, Works and Housing, said this at the presentation of the N100 billion cheque by the Minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, said that the money was shared equally among the six geo-political zones, meaning that each geo-political zone would get N16.67 billion for the number of roads to be completed in them. Giving a breakdown, he said that six roads would be constructed in the North Central, five in the North-East, four in the North-West, another four in the South-East, six in the South-South and three in the South-West. He said that the impact of Sukuk bond would be felt on nation building through job creation, growth and employment. He added that the Federal Government contractors would be the first beneficiaries, which would in turn trickle down to suppliers of building materials, artisans, miners and steel companies. In addition, he said that the entire economy would benefit from it, as construction was a major driver of any economy. The Minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, said that there was a significant increase in the level of participation of retail investors from about four per cent in 2017 Sukuk issuance to 17.3 per cent in 2018. She said that this meant that the objective of financial inclusion and deepening of investor base of the Federal Government securities were gradually being achieved. Ahmed clarified that the N100 billion Sukuk funds would be used to further support the government’s capital spending on road projects already captured in the 2018 budget. Giving a breakdown of investors’ contribution to the funds raised, she said 40.69 per cent came from pension fund administrators, 17.5 per cent from Deposit Money Banks and 17.33 per cent from retail investors. Also, she said that 11.65 per cent came from fund managers and non-bank financial institutions, 10.94 per cent from non-interest banks and 1.89 per cent of the fund came from other investors. Also, the Director-General, Debt Management Office, Ms Patience Oniha, said that the N100 billion Sovereign Sukuk was a seven year bond and repayment would be due in 2025 at an interest rate of 15.74 per cent. Some of the roads to benefit from the funds from the North Central include; the dualisation of Suleja-Minna road by Salini Construction Nigeria Limited. In the North -East, the dualisation of Kano-Maiduguri road, linking Kano, Jigawa, Bauchi, Yobe and the contractor is Mothercat limited. Similarly in the North-West, the construction of Kaduna Eastern bypass would benefit from the funds and the project would be handled by Eksiogullari Nigeria Limited. For the South-East,  the rehabilitation of Enugu/Port Harcourt Road by CGC Nigeria Limited. In the South-South, the dualisation of Yenegwe Road junction to Kolo/Otuoke to Bayelsa Palm by CCECC Nigeria Limited. Finally, in the South-West Zone, the dualisation of the Ibadan-Ilorin road by Reynolds construction company would benefit from the funds. Shortcomings Observers said the major drawback is what happens to a sukuk holder should a sukuk fail and the status of a sukuk holder when a sukuk goes under. A sukuk holder is said to be a part-owner of a project. What happens in the eventuality of the failure of the project? Ibrahim Warde, Professor of International Finance at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, said it is not clear what will happen when a sukuk fails. According to him, “This is an issue that has not been tested in court. In Malaysia, some sukuk issues have junk status, and two other sukuk are already in default: the Easter Cameron Gas company in the United States and Investment Dar of Kuwait. One of the unresolved questions is whether sukuk holders should stand in the line of creditors or in the line of the owners of underlying assets.” Muddassir Siddiqui, who is both a licensed Shariah jurist and a-U.S. trained attorney, said: “Through reading many cases that have so far been litigated in courts around the world, I have found that in almost all cases, the courts have struggled to reconcile the substance and form of the contract. Was it a sale, lease, construction or partnership contract or a financing arrangement between the parties?” Rodney Wilson, Emeritus Professor of Economics at Durham University in the UK, said that: “When sukuk payments are delayed or fail, the means of redress are potentially more complex than for conventional notes and bonds because under Shari’ah leniency towards debtors is favoured.”