Flying Eagles Head Coach, Paul Aigbogun, says his target at the CAF U-20 Nations Cup is qualifying for the FIFA U-20 World Cup and then winning the title for eighth time. Despite these targets, the Flying Eagles will take it one match at a time when the tournament kicks off in Niger Republic 2nd – 17th February. The seven –time African champions will play host nation Niger c, South Africa and Burundi in Group A, with only the two top –placed teams to progress to the semifinals and guaranteed automatic berths at this summer’s FIFA U-20 World Cup finals in Poland. “We must first plan on earning a ticket to the World Cup finals,” Aigbogun told thenff.com. “There would definitely be no margin for error in the first two matches. Once we are able to secure maximum points from the first two matches, we would have one leg at the World Cup. “Afterwards, we would then begin to plan for the trophy. Focus and tactics must be for one match at a time. We cannot afford to falter.” Team Administrator Aliyu Ibrahim Lawal confirmed on Monday that the Flying Eagles delegation would now depart for Niamey, venue of their group phase matches, on the morning of Thursday, 31st January 2019. Burundi’s Junior Itamba, Nigeria’s first opponents in Niger Republic, are a toughened bunch having had to wade through three rounds of qualifiers to land in Niger Republic. They trounced Ethiopia 3-0 on aggregate, shot past Sudan 3-1 after both legs and then side-tracked Zambia by the same margin. South Africa, Nigeria’s second opponents, prevailed 4-1 over Mozambique before defeating Malawi 2-0 on aggregate to make sure of a place in Niger. Hosts Niger Republic qualified automatically but were at the WAFU U20 Tournament in Lome last month, where they battled to a scoreless draw with the Flying Eagles in a group phase encounter. The Flying Eagles defeated Guinea Bissau 3-2 on aggregate before victimizing Mauritania 6-1 on aggregate to qualify. All four semifinalists in Niger Republic would represent Africa at the FIFA U20 World Cup finals in Poland, scheduled for 23rd May – 15th June.