Few weeks to Nigeria’s general elections, there are palpable fears over its outcomes and the impact it would have on key sectors of the economy. A report by Fitch Solutions Macro Research said Nigerian construction sector will see little benefit, but also few downsides, from the potential outcomes of the February 16 election. It said under its two most likely scenarios, it expect limited reform and continued levels of government support to keep growth ticking along at a modest pace, but little prospect of wide-ranging changes necessary to significantly boost growth. “In our third and least probable outcome, major reform of the oil and gas, railway and power sectors would unlock faster growth and encourage greater private sector participation in the construction industry”, it said. According to the report, Nigeria’s construction industry will be largely unaffected by the outcome of the February 16 election. ‘’We do not expect to see any signicant positive or negative effects on the Nigerian construction sector as a result of either of our two most likely election outcomes, although there is potential for a signicant boost to the sector from the third scenario”. ‘’We have consequently refrained from altering our construction industry growth forecasts, although we will review our expectations for the sector should our third scenario appear to be playing out,’’ it added. The report also said it expected limited reforms and some targeted investment to offer modest benefits to the construction industry but not enough to significantly lift growth. This outcome, it added, envisages favourable climate for those championing sweeping reform intended to catalyse industrial development, employment and growth. This includes extensive plans for the infrastructure sector, largely focused on roads, railways and power. The manifesto of the campaign outcome outlines plans to rehabilitate 5,000km of roads by 2025, improve railway management and oversight, expand and upgrade the power grid and invest $5bn per year to ensure maintenance and effective operations at power plants. It said its oil and gas Team also expects positive development with the assent of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill, which is currently awaiting presidential approval and which could spur some private sector investment and construction activity in the hydrocarbons sector. According to the report, these initiatives have a good chance of providing a real boost to the quality of basic infrastructure in the country. It however,  said the potential for delays to project approvals during the changeover of power, as well as historical difficulties executing projects in the country, means that we have not raised our expectations for construction industry growth. The report also contains more ambitious policy objectives which the team to win believes are less likely to materialise through stronger than expected mandate and shows greater desire for reform. According to the report, the manifesto contains pledges including construction of 5,000km of railway lines, privatisation of the rail sector, expanding use of power PPPs, and further oil and gas sector reform, among other objectives.