It has become a tradition that the nation’s president on January 1 of every year, makes a national broadcast during which he speaks to the citizens. In such speeches, the President is expected to point to the direction the nation will follow in the unfolding year. Analysts and commentators usually focus on the President’s speech for several days after. Thus, on the New Year day which was Monday January 1, 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari also spoke to the nation. During the speech, He said that this year’s general   elections would not be “a do-or-die affair”. He told Nigerians to go to the polls without trepidation, saying his government was committed to conducting free, fair and credible elections. Buhari said some people were spreading “falsehoods” and creating bad blood in the country, believing that doing so would upstage him at the presidential poll. He said such persons were “fighting a losing battle”. Buhari, who described 2018 as a year of mixed blessings for the country, said he was hopeful that this year would be much better. Buhari stressed: “2019 will be an election year for us. In about two months, the polls are due, and we will elect leaders to various offices, at national and state levels. “As I welcome you into 2019, I also reiterate my many promises and declarations that the general elections will be free, fair and credible. “Elections need not be a do-or-die affair, and we should not approach that eventuality in a democracy with trepidation and mortal fear. Happily, a large number of presidential candidates have committed to peace, and peace we shall have. “Those who continue to trumpet falsehood and negativity are on their own, fighting a losing battle. The greater number of Nigerians are trusting and believing that we shall deliver on our promises for a level playing field at the polls, and that is what we shall do.” Buhari said that Nigeria desired peace for the much-need economic and infrastructural development to be delivered to the citizenry. He added: “We Nigerians are a religious people, and we believe that God reigns and rules in the affairs of men. A time like this offers a precious opportunity for thanksgiving, stocktaking and reflection on the goals and targets set for the receding year, and how much was accomplished. The ones not done can then be rolled over into a new year. “The dawn of a new year is also a time to look forward. To consider new prospects, unfold our plans, and prepare for landmark dates and events. “Nigerians desire peace, security, prosperity, inclusiveness and infrastructural development, a nation they can be proud of, a country that can hold its own among nations. “That is the journey we have embarked on since we came on board in 2015, and we are not distracted as we move on. “We are resolved to build a country in which the resources are utilised for the benefit of the largest number, and not appropriated by a privileged few in their never-ending quest to satisfy their greed. “We are on this mission together, and I assure you of a firm commitment to the ideals of a safe, secure, fair, just and prosperous country.” Since the broadcast, a cross section of Nigerians has been reacting to it, with many saying that they were not impressed as the President’s New Year message did not say anything new. Buhari’s New Year Message Was Empty – MMN Chief Chief Nwawuba Ohaegbulam Ekeukwu, a chieftain of the Masses Movement of Nigeria (MMN), Owerri North Local Government Area, in Imo State, said: “A leopard cannot change its colour. I just listened to the New Year message of the president out of curiously, not that I expected anything new from him. “The message was empty and there was nothing exciting or reassuring about it. I had expected the president to tell us fresh measures he had put in place to tackle insurgency, economic recession, food crisis and the nagging problem of epileptic power supply. “Again, I had expected the president to tell the nation the arrangements for hitch-free elections, the solution to the raging ASUU strike and the contentions new minimum wage being demanded by the Nigerian Labour Movement. “You should also remember that the president was also silent on the electoral act bill. The New Year message to me fell short of expectations.” There Is Nothing To Celebrate In Buhari’s New Year Speech – YPP Scribe Nze Bonaventure Duruigwe Ibeji, Secretary, the Young Progressive Party (YPP), stated: “There is nothing to celebrate with the new year message of the president as far I am concerned. “From the content of the message, there is no light at the end of the tunnel. The man in the street will not heave a sigh of relief and the roadside mechanic, carpenters, bricklayers, market women and school children and palm wine tappers will continue to suffer. The message was for the consumption of the elite class and not for the poor.” Buhari’s Speech Does Not Raise Hope For The Masses – Politician Danjuma Salawu, Minna-based Grassroots politician, said, “I am impressed with the President Muhammadu Buhari’s New Year message. But, that has not answered the question of why things have been so hard and Nigerians subjected to the cruelest and most difficult economic realities under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. “At the inception of the administration, Nigerians were inundated with claims that the hardship was caused by the 16 years of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rule. We were told that the then government looted the treasury and with Buhari at the helm of affair, things would soon normalise and we were all clapping and happy with high expectations when we heard that by January 2016, things would be normal. Unfortunately, nothing has changed till date. So, how can we believe that there is anything more this government can offer us? “Nobody has told us in clear terms how much money has been recovered, where the money is now and/or what the money was used for? I read in one of the dailies that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) could not account for how much it has recovered so far in the almost four years of the Buhari administration. I was beginning to ask why EFCC of all the commissions cannot give answers to how much it has recovered. The next thing we heard was that the operatives were helping themselves with choice properties or materials so recovered from who we don’t know. “Buhari was voted in because Nigerians were made to understand that the Goodluck Jonathan or the PDP administration was so corrupt that it must be changed and we all rose to doing that. But, today, I don’t know what the likes of the former Lagos State governor and leader of the APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will be telling Nigerians again. “Buhari is seen as a man of integrity, who is also incorruptible. But, that has been subjected to ratifications considering what is happening in Nigerian today. It is as if Buhari is looking the other way while his subordinates (or do I call them political jobbers) are busy doing whatever they like and corruptly enriching themselves. Who is fooling who? “Buhari’s wife has been talking loud to whoever cares to listen about what she is seeing happening in Aso Rock and we all pretend not to hear. Or, do I say we heard, but no one dares to go and check for fear of being silenced. But, that is not what government and governance is all about. “Even the legislature seemed overwhelmed with what is happening today. So, they are being singled out individually and dealt with for daring to speak out. This is not what checks and balance, as part of democratic tenets, is all about. “So, I can tell you that I listened to our President’s speech. But, I am waiting for the speech to translate into changing the hardship for the betterment of the common man on the streets to have at least two square meals per day. It is not about giving some market women N10, 000, while the generality of Nigerians suffer hunger and deprivation, thereby increasing the rate of crime and criminalities in the country.”