Daniel Abia and Paschal Njoku P/Harcourt / Abuja – The ongoing trial of Justice Walter Nkanu Onnoghen, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), has been traced to the behind-the-scene machinations of the embattled Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Addressing thousands of PDP supporters during the state campaign rally at Eleme Local Government Area of the state on Thursday, the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, said the Minister of Transportation made the confession at a meeting with an APC chieftain in Abuja. “At that meeting in Abuja, last Monday, Amaechi confessed that he is the person behind the illegal crisis facing the CJN. He bragged that he will destroy the CJN the way he brought former President Goodluck Jonathan down. He wants to destroy the nation’s judiciary. This particular evil will finally consume Amaechi,” Wike said. Governor Wike said Amaechi was notorious for the destruction of the judiciary, having closed down Rivers State judiciary for two years. He wondered why Amaechi hated the judiciary despite being a beneficiary of the vibrancy of the judiciary. The governor also wondered why Amaechi would say that PDP was a party of thieves when he was Speaker for eight years under the PDP and eight years as governor under the PDP. “If there is any thief, Amaechi is the proper thief. This thief sold our valued assets to his business partner, Mr. Tonye Cole,” he added. Governor Wike stated that Nigeria had been liberated following the retirement of former Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris. He said the former Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, was Satan’s representative in Nigeria. The governor called for an independent investigation into the murder of the Kano State Resident Electoral Commissioner and his family through arson during the 2015 general elections. He noted that Ibrahim Idris was the commissioner of police in Kano State when this ugly crime was committed. According to the governor, “The former IGP, Ibrahim Idris, is a representative of Satan in Nigeria. He represented Satan, but the prayers and fasting of Nigerians ensured he was retired despite plans to retain him. “If Buhari has any integrity, he should investigate the killing of the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Kano alongside his family during the 2015 general elections. Buhari must ask what killed the REC and his family while Ibrahim Idris was a commissioner of police.” He called on the people of Eleme Local Government Area to vote for Atiku Abubakar so that he could revive Onne Port for the good of the economy of Rivers State. He said: “Buhari is not aware of anything. No wonder he is not aware that he hates Rivers people and is yet to execute any project in the state. How can you support a president who does not respect the rule of law? If he fails to respect the law in his first term, the second term would be a disaster. “The only way that Eleme people will get Onne Port to start working again is to vote for Atiku Abubakar. He is a man with the knowledge to create employment opportunities and develop the economy.” He declared that Buhari and the APC would lose in all the six states of the South-South, saying no deployment of security forces would help the failed APC Federal Government. Governor Wike noted that during his second term, he would construct the Eleme internal roads in addition to other basic infrastructure. The governor added that in line with his commitment to the expansion of leadership opportunities, youths and women would take 65 percent of the appointments. Rivers State PDP Chairman, Bro Felix Obuah, said he was impressed by the large turnout of Eleme people and their maximum support for Governor Wike and other PDP candidates. Rivers State Presidential Campaign Coordinator, Senator Olaka Nwogu, said Eleme would vote all PDP candidates during the 2019 general elections. Director General of Rivers State PDP Campaign Council, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, said across the 92 polling units of Eleme, the people have resolved to support Governor Wike in 2019. Philip Okparaji, Chairman of Eleme Local Government Area, said that the people would correct the error of 2015 when the PDP lost in Eleme. Former Eleme Local Government Area Chairman, Ejor N. Ejor, said that Eleme stakeholders had collectively pledged to deliver all PDP candidates. The rally witnessed the defection of hundreds of APC members to the PDP. The Eleme Council of Chiefs conferred on Governor Wike a Chieftaincy title in appreciation of his developmental strides in the area. Suits Challenging Onnoghen’s Arraignment Adjourned To Jan 28 Meanwhile, suits filed at the Federal High Court, Abuja, seeking to restrain the Federal Government from arraigning the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, at the Code of Conduct Tribunal, Abuja, were on Thursday adjourned to January 28 for hearing. Justice N. E. Maha adjourned the two separate suits instituted by Incorporated Trustees of the Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative and the Incorporated Trustees of International Association of Students due to irregular service of court processes on parties. When the case filed by the Incorporated Trustees of the Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative was mentioned, plaintiff’s counsel, R.A. Lawal Rabana, SAN, informed the court that the business of the day was to move the motion on notice. He said all the respondents to the suit had been served with the processes filed by the plaintiff and the enrolled order of the court, except the Senate President. In the circumstances, the plaintiff’s counsel prayed the court for a short adjournment to enable the court papers to be served on the Senate President in the interest of justice. The judge then asked Dr. Garba Tetengi, SAN, who announced appearance for the 4th respondent, the National Judicial Council, and the only respondent who showed up, whether he was served. Tetengi confirmed he was served with the processes, and that he had no objection to the request for a short adjournment. In her ruling, Justice Maha held that the processes served on the respondents were not accompanied with certificate itemising each of the processes served on each of the respondents.