JOSEPH UNDU LAGOS – Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, has been gathering more supporters across the nation and in Lagos State, in particular. Several groups have sprung up to ensure that the former vice president upstages his opponents, especially President Muhammadu Buhari of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). One of such group is the Unit2Unit Initiative, led by Dr. Vincent Anyigor the National Coordinator. He has been mobilizing Nigerians across the nation for the Atiku/Obi presidential ticket. The group held a strategic meeting at Ikotun, Lagos on Sunday, January 6th, during which they rallied together leaders of various groups, including ethnic nationalities for the Atiku ticket. Speaking at the occasion, Dr. Anyigor said President Muhammadu Buhari “does not have the capacity to rule Nigeria.” Adding that the President’s acclaimed integrity has failed Nigerians hence the need to vote him out and save the country from sinking. In an emotion laden speech he admitted being part of the reasons why Buhari is the president today. “I did not just participate in the 2015 elections; I was also a senatorial candidate under the platform of the APC. I played a key role in bringing Buhari to power, but see how he has treated everybody today. “Buhari does not have the capacity to rule Nigeria. His acclaimed integrity has failed us. On two occasions that he ruled the country, he plunged the economy into recession. The first time in 1983 to 1984, he led us into recession and Gen. Ibrahim Babangida had to topple him. If he were a smart man, Babangida wouldn’t have toppled his government. “They toppled his government when Tunde Idiagbon travelled out. So, Tunde Idiagbon was actually the one running the government. He came again the second time and led us into recession. We need to sail Nigeria out of this current troubled waters. We need to change anything that represents the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Nigeria, he said.” On how the PDP is going to vote out President Buhari in the next election, he explained thus, “This election is going to record high level participation and Lagos state is a case study and a peculiar place. The truth is that, it is women that mostly vote in our elections. They represent 75 percent of total voters, men don’t vote. But this time around men are going to be highly involved because they feel the pain. About 60 percent of men who had jobs before Buhari was elected no longer have jobs, some have lost their businesses and because of that, they would vote him out. “For example, the Igbos constitutes 53 percent of the total population of Lagos state. They have 9.7 million people in Lagos and about 6.4 million taxable adults in the state. The Igbos before now doesn’t like to vote, but this time around they are going to vote overwhelmingly. They are going to vote because, 99 percent of the over 20,000 containers seized at the wolf belong to the Igbos. Now, the only way they can retrieve their containers and have free flow businesses is to ensure that APC is voted out,he stated.” Dr. Anyigor also called on supporters of the party to cancel all that they have to do on the eve of election saying, “Anyone who sits at home and says his or her vote will not count does not know the importance of one vote. If the votes will not count, they would not be buying it. If the votes will not count, they would not be looking for people with PVC to collect them. The votes will count. 2019 election is not just an election, but it is about the soul of Nigeria. It is about us, our children and our grand children. “Thank God, our presidential candidate and former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is a Muslim and a Fulani man like Buhari, so, the issue of religion and ethnicity would not be a factor. It is about competence. Atiku has a certificate; he is a successful businessman and a true Nigerian. He is a South Westerner by marriage, South Easterner by marriage and a Niger Deltan by business association, he said.” On the issue of corruption he said, “When Atiku was in APC, he was not a thief, now that he left their sinking ship, he has suddenly become a thief. We trusted a man with the so called integrity but he has failed us, now let us try a thief who has proven to be a good manager of resources and creator of jobs. Isa Funtua is someone I know very well. Before Buhari’s election, how much was he worth. Now Isa Funtua bought Keystone Bank and Etisalat. From where did he get the money? And they soled it without the board sitting and approving it because the Managing Director is an in law to Funtua.” Also speaking, Dr. Victor Daniel Enweruzo, the Lagos State Coordinator of the group, said that more people have been killed under Buhari’s three and a half years of presidency than during Goodluck Jonathan’s five years term. “If 500 hundred people were killed in Nigeria by Boko Haram during Jonathan’s administration, permit me to say that, 2.5 million people have been killed by Boko Haram in this present administration. On the burning issue of corruption, if corruption under Jonathan was 10 percent, today, it is 85 percent. It is under this government that for the first time in history, Nigeria has become the most impoverished country in the world. “We are going to fight very hard to take our country back, we are not going to fight with guns, we are not going to fight with machetes and knives but we are going to fight with our Permanente voter Cards (PVCs). We are going to give Atiku Abubakar four million votes out of the over 6.6 million registered votes in Lagos. We call on all the various ethnic groups represented here to work assiduously to sensitize their people on the need to rescue our dear country from the sinking APC clueless government, he said.” All the leaders of the over 35 ethnic groups who were represented at the meeting unanimously endorsed the candidature of Atiku Abubakar and Jimi Agbaje and have agreed to work together with the leadership of the Unit 2 Unit Initiatives to deliver their community’s votes to Atiku and all other PDP candidates in Lagos state. One of the participants at the meeting, Afam Ibedu from Isheri –Osun said, “We are so much aggrieved with what is happening in Nigeria today, and I believe that, by next month, we are going to elect Atiku Abubakar as our next president.” He enjoined everyone to take the message down to their various ward and communities.