Lagos – For a professional football league, four weeks into the season, may not be enough for a full assessment of the season with a view to ascertaining its success or otherwise. But in a very unpredictable league like the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), it could provide the recipe for gauging the latter developments. The 2018/2019 season of the NPFL started late due to incessant delays. But stakeholders, particularly reporters, have agreed that the start could not have been better with results that could not be envisaged in the years back. For instance, in the match-day one, the highpoint of the fixtures was the defeat of the highly-rated Akwa United at home by El-Kanemi Warriors, who capitalized on a goalkeeping error to snatch the chestnut out of fire at the Nest of Champions, Uyo. It was one result that could not have been envisaged given the strength of the home team and the age-long erroneous belief that an away team hardly get win outside its fortress. Stakeholders applauded the fans of Akwa United, who, as video footage later showed, chanted the praises of El-Kanemi while ruing their team’s missed chances in the match. It was a similar scenario in the match-day two as Omoku, Rivers State side, Go Round FC, shocked Abia Warriors in Umuahia. In the match SUNDAY INDEPENDENT monitored, the home team dictated the pace during the initial exchanges and came close to taking the lead but were undone by Ololade Sadiq’s goal in the 37th minute. However, Abia Warriors needed a 69th minute penalty by Emeka Isaac to level up but the visitors hit the puncher through Emeka Ugwu few minutes to the end of the match. Just like what panned out in Uyo, the fans of Ochendo Boys applauded the play and urged their team to step up their game next time. Even some of the players of Go Round were quoted as commending the maturity shown by the few fans of Abia Warriors who thronged the stadium to cheer their team. Just like the week one and two of the new season, week three produced another away win after Heartland stunned Nasarawa United 1-0 in Lafia. The unique thing about this win is that both clubs had contrasting fortunes towards the end of last season. While the Naze Millionaires were a sure candidate for relegation were the league allowed to run full course, Nasarawa United contested for continental slots and comfortably avoided the drop at the end of last season. Unlike what happened in Umuahia in the match between Abia Warriors and Go Round, Heartland started the match finely and took charge of the initial periods. Their dominance paid off as they took the lead through Nwoshiri Samuel, whose volley stunned the home crowd and handed the Naze Millionaires their first away win of the season. The Solid Miners responded with incessant attacks but met a much disciplined defensive line from the former champions. Other positives that could be savoured from the young league season are the on-field discipline that has been shown by most players. According to information obtained by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, players have shown high level of discipline with lesser cautions recorded at this time compared to by this time last season. For instance, at the end of match-day four last season, a total of 134 cautions had been recorded with five expulsions. But less than ninety cautions have been recorded as the season enters week five today with matches across the centres. But like a mathematical theorem where there must be balances in equation, the young season, which looks flawless on the field of play, is being threatened by hooliganism, even as the stakeholders have risen to condemn the pockets of violence at some centres. It started right in the match-day one at the Rwan Pam Stadium in Jos where former champions, Plateau United, played host to FC IfeanyiUbah. The match dragged on with both sides being cagey in their approaches but an eyewitnesses said that no sooner had the encounter ended than the home fans unleashed violence in the arena. Their grievances, as has always been the case, was why their team could not win, probably blaming the officials for the result. Stakeholders condemned the act and questioned the rationale for starting the belated season with violence after so much time had been wasted in anticipation of the commencement of the league. According to several sources who were on the ground at the stadium, the centre referee, Sam Agba, was severely beaten and had to be medically attended to. The League Management Company (LMC), organisers of the NPFL, regretted the unfortunate incident, urging clubs to warn their fans against such incidents. As a measure to ensure that the Peace Boys call their fans to order, the LMC came hard on the team, banishing them to Ilorin, Kwara State, while slamming a suspended three-point deduction on them. The match-day one encounter ended 0-0 before some angry fans of the home side descended on the match officials. Similarly, the match involving two promoted sides, Remo Stars of Sagamu and Bendel Insurance of Benin, witnessed a crowd violence that condemned the centre referee, Bethel Nwanesi, to the treatment table. Problem, however, started when Nwanesi denied Remo Stars’ Ekene Awazie’s goal in the 82nd minute, and termed it an offside. The Remo fans reportedly descended on him and his assistants, Nalado and Salihu, following the cancellation of the late goal in the match played at the Gateway Stadium, Abeokuta. The chairman of Remo Stars, Kunle Soname, had threatened to drag Nwanesi to FIFA. According to Soname, the referee was grossly incompetent and made many questionable calls. Just like so many Nigerians have argued, the Nigeria Referees Association (NRA) has noted that the violence in both Jos and Sagamu portend a bad precedent to the league and might possibly point to what to expect if drastic actions were not taking to nip the trend in the bud. Kelechi Mejuobi, the publicity secretary of NRA, while condemning the acts of fans at both venues, said the association would have a rethink in allowing its members to continue officiating matches in the NPFL. “It is obvious that the incidents in Jos and Sagamu, coming early in the abridged league, are ominous signs of bad days ahead for the domestic league, particularly, Nigerian referees taking part in the NPFL, who are on the verge of losing their lives at match venues if scenes witnessed so far from the violent venues are considered. “It is on this note that the NRA, who strongly cares for the welfare of its members and believes that no life of a referee is worth any league match in the country, is considering keeping away from the NPFL matches to avoid a referee beaten to death,” he said. Meanwhile, as a further measure to stop unwarranted attack on referees, the LMC also came down hard on Remo Stars. It clamped a six million naira fine on the team, urging them to play their next three matches in Osogbo, Osun State. Chairman of Remo Stars FC, Soname, was also banned from further participation in the next three NPFL matches and fined N1 million for granting a media interview in which he made comments that brought the league to disrepute. Soname was also charged for conducts and utterances that did not show positive example to players and supporters. Also charged and sanctioned was the club’s team manager, Yinka Ajayi, who has been suspended for the rest of the season from all NPFL matches. The LMC also ruled that Remo Stars stand to forfeit three points should such incident occur again during the season, while the club was also directed to assist relevant security agencies to apprehend and prosecute two of their supporters, identified as Akintan Yinka and Zico. While stakeholders have commended LMC for its prompt intervention in the crisis, they argued that stricter measures must be put in place to avert the development. Zachary Baraje, who spoke to our correspondent, faulted club managements for not taking their fans to tutorials on how they should behave during matches. “It is still business as usual in the league. Club officials need to do more in educating their supporters that a referee is human and could make mistakes. I think we all watch European leagues and see how fans comport themselves even if a decision goes against their teams. There should be regular measures to educate fans,” he said. However, some analysts have said that a stricter measure like instant demotion of a club whose fans threating the safety of match officials could go a long way in arresting the situation. On the other hand, some people have also called on the referees to redouble their efforts in ensuring the right application of the rules guiding the game. For instance, in the week four match between Bendel Insurance and Kwara United in Benin City on Wednesay, which ended goalless, television footage showed that the last-gasp goal scored by the home side, which was ruled offside, was a legitimate goal. This is even as it was equally argued that the goal Remo Stars scored in the controversial week three match in Sagamu against Insurance could have stood.