ABUJA – Controversial Catholic Priest and Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu State, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka was spotted at the Presidential Villa on Monday, where he met with President Muhammadu Buhari behind closed doors. Although his mission to the seat of power was not clear, as at the time of filing this report, sources within the presidency, said it might not be unconnected with the recent suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen. The cleric, who predicted that President Buhari would defeat the then President Goodluck Jonathan in the 2015 general election, arrived the forecourt of the president’s office at about 12 noon. He was chauffeur driven in a Maroon colour BMW car and made straight to the president’s office complex. He, however, sneaked out of the presidential villa, aided by some security personnel, who obviously wanted to prevent him from talking to the press. Mbaka was recently criticized over his outburst in a video where he chastised the Peoples’ Democratic Party Vice Presidential candidate, Peter Obi, for not donating money to his congregation. Although he later apologized to Mr. Obi who had remained calm at the adoration ground despite what was viewed as an unwarranted attack from the cleric who had wanted the former Anambra State governor to openly announce his donation to the ministry. Former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani was also spotted at the villa almost the same time Mbaka arrived. The cleric had previously warned President Buhari against contesting the 2019 presidential election when pressures were being mounted on him to do so. He had issued the warning, claiming that the message came from God. “As I was waiting on the Lord, I’m asked to advise you, don’t come out for the second tenure after this, retire peacefully. “Come back to yourself or you will cry by the time you will be sent out of office. Those who are encouraging you to come out and run again want to disgrace you shamefully and publicly,” Mbaka had stated before his congregation in Enugu.