Chief Martin Onovo is the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and chieftain of the Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). As the nation moves towards the 2019 elections, he spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on crucial issues, including the impending trial of Justice Walter Onnoghen, the war against insurgency, among other issues. Excerpts: What is your take on the Federal Government’s controversial plan to try Justice Walter Onnoghen, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) over issues relating to asset declaration? The corrupt attempt to remove the CJN is unconstitutional. We have previously highlighted the promotion of corruption by this regime. The failed attempt against the CJN is a confirmation of the continued promotion of corruption by this most corrupt regime. The Constitution of Nigeria is very clear about how a CJN can be removed. But, this dying dictatorship in its lawlessness, violates the Constitution with impunity. The Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) obviously did not investigate the petition properly. It also lacks the jurisdiction to try the matter. Nobody is above the law. The CCB, CCT, Attorney General of the Federation and the Presidency are not above the law. They must all be compelled to comply with the Constitution. The petition must first be referred to the NJC for a review. The position of the NJC will then dictate subsequent actions. That is the requirement of the Constitution of Nigeria. Although there are several presidential candidates in the 2019 election, the focus seems to be on Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and President Muhammadu Buhari. Why is this so? His Excellency, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is a former state governor and a former Vice President of Nigeria. So, he is a very well established politician. He is also a billionaire businessman and has been endorsed by Afenifere, the largest socio-cultural organisation in the Southwest. Buhari is a former military Head of State and currently the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Both also are candidates of relatively old and large parties that hold major political offices in our corrupt country. Their two parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), also abuse state institutions and use slush funds for their campaigns. Consequently, it is natural that based on their political profiles, particular platforms and the national resources available to their political parties; they can attract more attention, especially since almost all of the other candidates are very weak and are running on weak platforms. Based on Vision, Integrity, Capacity and Competence, Buhari is the worst of all the candidates. He is the least educated, he is the oldest, he is the least intelligent, the least industrious and the least democratic. His vision is sectional and his administration is the most corrupt ever. According to the very brilliant columnist, Dr. Femi Aribisala, this is the “worst government in the history of Nigeria”. With the recent killings by the Boko Haram, especially the killing of Nigerian soldiers by the insurgents, is the government really winning the war against the sect? Buhari cannot lead Nigeria to win the war. He clearly lacks the leadership capacity. He lacks the moral and mental capacities to lead our military to victory. He is reported by the BBC to have paid two million Euros in a ransom to Boko Haram, which Boko Haram apparently has used to re-organise and upgrade its terrorist capability. He has been losing hundreds of our good soldiers, our military equipment and our cities to Boko haram. Baga fell right under his nose to a rag-tag band of Boko Haram terrorists, while he was more concerned with political activities. Just three to 10 kilometers outside Maiduguri is under the control of Boko Haram. But, he is more interested in scheming to return to office desperately and at all costs by abusing our military forces in his python dances. He can dance his pythons and smile his crocodiles. But, he must leave the office this year. All patriotic Nigerians are united against Buhari’s incompetence and deceitful claims. Buhari must go! How do you see the decision of the Military to carry out ‘Operation Python Dance’ in every party of the country at the same time? It is a desperate decision of a dying dictatorship to hold onto power at all costs by intimidating political opponents and all Nigerians with military force. The Commander-in-Chief wishes to do so while losing cities and communities to terrorist Boko Haram and herdsmen. It will fail. That cabal of three men exposed by Mrs. Aisha Buhari cannot overwhelm 200 million Nigerians. The military must rally its resources to defeat Boko Haram, dislodge terrorist herdsmen from our farms and communities, expel the bandits in Zamfara and arrest the criminals in the Abuja-Kaduna expressway corridor. That will be the right use of our military resources. It is abuse of power (an impeachment offence) to use our military to intimidate innocent citizens and political opponents. The elections are by the corner, while President Muhammadu Buhari vetoed the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. How do you see the development? The manipulations to rig elections in Nigeria started long before the date of the actual voting. Buhari’s refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill is another indication that he wants a charade. The amendment was passed to improve the integrity of our elections by ensuring that all votes are authentic and that election results can be audited and confirmed. The brilliant and patriotic Alhaji Buba Galadima has warned Nigerians of the devilish desperation of the ruling cabal to hold onto power at any cost.Several actions and inactions suggest that the ruling cabal and INEC are in an unpatriotic alliance to arrange a charade that will produce Buhari for a second term. That is a very dangerous venture. Some of the actions and inactions include; The inappropriate appointment of persons from Buhari’s religion and region into key positions to dominate INEC contrary to previous practice; The refusal to disqualify Buhari for his lack of a WAEC certificate which is the minimum educational qualification required by the Constitution; The skewed voter registration process that made it difficult for many qualified people to register in some regions while the unqualified under aged could register easily in other regions; the disenfranchisement of many millions of registered southern voters by INEC’s deliberate obstacles to the collection of PVCs. This is a repetition of the disenfranchisement of about 14 million voters in 2015. Others are: The abuse of security forces and security postings; the persecution and intimidation of opposition elements; the looting of national resources and violation of election finance limits; the intimidation of the media, the judiciary and blackmailing of judges; the abuse of state institutions like the National Broadcasting Commission; The refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill that will prevent rigging so as to allow rigging by the ruling cabal. We must ensure that INEC does not destroy democracy in Nigeria by insisting on the rule of law and the integrity of the ballot. Do you think the National Assembly as presently constituted can override the President’s veto considering the closeness of the elections? With the unpatriotic APC caucus in the National Assembly and their corrupt flip-flop positions, it may be difficult to get the two-thirds majority required to override the veto, unless we can get about half of them to support an override of the veto. A simple majority cannot override the veto. What is your view on the 2019 budget as recently presented to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari? Like the previous budget proposals, beginning with the 2016 budget proposal, this is another budget of ruination. It will further ruin the economy of Nigeria and undermine national security. Everything is wrong with the budget proposal. The basis of the crude oil revenue estimate is clearly utopian. Both the crude oil production and price estimates are very high, leading to the utopian revenue estimate. The wastes in recurrent expenditure were not addressed and the proposal for capital expenditure is very poor. This is another deficit budget calculated to compromise the future of Nigerian children with reckless and unpatriotic borrowing. While other countries like Norway are accumulating savings for their children, Buhari, who will be 77 years old this 2019, is accumulating very huge debts for our children. The cost of debt obligations is already too high (close to 40 percent of total national revenue), yet Buhari continues with his reckless and unpatriotic borrowing. The 2019 budget proposal is simply to fund the corruption and the waste we have seen in the previous three budgets. That Nigeria can still tolerate incompetent Buhari is still a puzzle to all reasonable people. For the first time, the nation’s President was booed and jeered at by lawmakers during the 2019 budget presentation. What is your take on that? The lawmakers were right in their exercise of their freedom of speech. It is standard parliamentary practice to express a rejection of an unpatriotic position. It is clear that the lawmakers had to reject the false claims made by Buhari which included that the Ogwashi-    Uku dam had been completed. Buhari deserved to be booed and also be impeached. He has denigrated the Office of the President of Nigeria with such senseless deceit and must resign from office as he has lost all credibility.