“We simply rob ourselves when we make presents to the dead” – Publilius Syrus moral sayings (1st Century BC). Yes, in this discourse today, my focus is on the female category of Awards for the female footballers during the Confederation of African Football, CAF, Awards which recently took place in Dakar, Senegal. Like I have always been advocating as a Columnist, female football is fast developing in Africa and Nigeria which have dominated the black continent of Africa for decades are beginning to get stiffer oppositions from minnow countries, whom they once ran over with ease of supremacy! African Women have since become more athletic in shape and physique rather than being chubby in their usual outlook each time you see them in major championships. But today, we have been witnessing less chubby women on the pitch but very flexible, stylish, classic and fantastic athletic female footballers like the very beginning of the days of the Super Falcons who had dealt several wining blows on the continental women who always turn up chubby, beautiful and absolutely lazy on the ball. So, I was not disappointed when Chrestinah Thembi Kgatlana, aged 22, won the CAF Award for the best woman footballer of the year – 2018! No doubt, Kgatlana was the focus of every prying eyes during the AWCON Championship in Ghana recently, where the Falcons of Nigeria also proved their prowess and dominance amidst serious resistance from the Bayana – Bayana of South Africa, who gave the reigning African champions (Nigeria) the shocker of their professional playing career with Kgatlana scoring the only goal at the eleventh hour of that opening match of Group B at the Cape Coast stadium on November 18, 2018 in Ghana. Indeed, that classical goal from the foot of Kgatlana did send jitters to the Falcons and, indeed, gave the Falcons and the Nigeria football federation a lot of knocks and criticisms. Kgatlana is a prolific scorer, a wonderful striker for the South African female national team, who plies her professional career with Houston Dash, a female league side in the USA. Indeed, Chrestinah Thembi Kgatlana beat our own Asisat Oshuola who has been consistent on that category in the 2018 edition of the CAF Award, given her exploits for club and country. Recalled that Kgatlana was the first star of the last CAF Women Nations cup, who scooped the Most Valuable Player (MVP), getting all the top scorer accolades with much credit for Bayana-Bayana getting to the finals of the championship. In this regard, I want to commend CAF and the organiers of the event for a wonderful and credible job! While I congratulate CAF and the organisers, I also congratulate Kgatlana for her progression in female football urging her and her teammates to be stronger and better for the continent. My commendation and congratulations also goes to Liverpool FC of England Superstar, Mohammed Sallah, who doubles for his country, Egypt for retaining the CAF footballer of the year 2018 Award. In all, I say felicitation!