A rise of international hotel brands is a key factor in the growth of the hospitality industry. Pipeline activities of 76,322 rooms in 418 hotels have been reported in 2018. Of these, 47,679 rooms in 298 hotels are in Sub Saharan Africa, while North Africa recorded 28,643 rooms in 120 hotels. Sub Saharan breakdown places West Africa at the top of pipeline activity at 48%, followed by East Africa at 29%, South Africa at 19% and Central Africa at 4% respectively. Accor Hotels, which has a firm footing in Africa, recorded double digits on the number of hotels in its pipeline, to reach a 66% growth in the number of rooms signed. Ethiopia leads in East Africa with 31 hotels in 2018 up from 20 hotels in 2017. Accor Hotel is stronger in WA and North Africa. Driving Factor In Tourism In Africa Mr. Zurab Pololikashvili, Secretary-General, UNWTO in his assessment of African tourism industry in the Hospitality Report Africa 2018/19 2nd Edition published by Jumia Hotels and Travels identified the Africa agenda 2063 as a strong driving factor to the growth of the industry; Issuance of the AU e-Passport and creation of visa upon arrival, e-visa and visa-free travel for African citizens in line with the concept of unrestricted movement of persons, goods and services across the countries. He said South Africa reported slower growth in arrivals through a strong increase in expenditure. Island destinations Seychelles, Cabo Verde and Reunion Island; all reported double-digit growth in arrivals, benefiting from increased air connectivity. According to Pololikashvili these include infrastructure development aiming at unlocking intra-regional economic exchange and establishing regional value chains for increased competitiveness, as well as the political goodwill and mainstreaming of national agenda and implementation of tourism transformation policies. Challenges Of Tourism Development He identified factors hindering growth as travel advisories by international tourist sources and Political instability at some. Inadequate air travel between the major African cities due to poor intra-African air connectivity and lack of strategic marketing of brand Africa are also among top issues. “We are also dealing with the negative perception of brand identity and image of the continent. Africa is not a country but a continent, home to more than a billion very creative, entrepreneurial and tech-savvy Africans. It is however, viewed as the only home to fascinating wildlife and torn apart by war, poverty and diseases. Last but not least, underdeveloped tourism infrastructure, visa restrictions and lack of common visa policy, and lack of access to adequate funding and underfunding at the ministerial level. Nigeria’s image in public light has been of concern to industry key players and the ordinary man on the streets. “The Giant of Africa’ has it is popularly referred to has been portrayed as a very terrible country by members of the international community. The ongoing political campaigns among other developments have not helped in laundering the country’s image home and abroad as the internet has been bombarded with news about the country being an abysmal failure (this is not to say that some of the pieces of information that are transmitted about the country are not true). The situation is so bad that one begins to wonder whether the country does not have its good sides. The image has been so tarnished such that at the mention of Nigeria people from other countries become scared of relating with people from the country. The country is perceived and rated as headquarters of poverty, insecurity and noted for tribulations in many shades. Addressing the issue recently as it affects tourism and hospitality industry, Omolara Adagunodo, the Managing Director of Jumia’s Hotel & Flight Services urged players and stakeholders in the industry to intensify efforts towards rebranding the image of the hotel and tourism sector as the country continues to gain traction as one of the major tourist destinations in Africa. Adagundo added that Nigerians, as well as tourism stakeholders, should focus more on selling a positive image of Nigeria’s tourism sector. “Over the years, commendable efforts have been to project Nigeria in a positive light to the international community. This brand message now needs to be reinforced by focusing more on broadening the narrative and telling a more balanced, honest story about Nigeria,” said Adagunodo. In her remarks on what impact a stronger branding will have on Nigeria’s hospitality sector, Adagunodo said: “Nigeria will automatically become a choice destination for tourists from different parts of the globe and at the same time the contribution of the sector to the country’s Gross Domestic Product will significantly increase.” The Travel and Tourism sector accounted for 1.9% of total GDP as a direct contribution, and 5.1% as a total contribution to GDP according to the Nigeria Hospitality Report. In monetary terms, Travel and Tourism contributed N2.298 billion to the GDP as a direct contribution and N6.205 billion as a total contribution to the GDP. In her submission, Adagunodo expressed optimism that the contributions and figures can be higher with stronger branding as the sector has proved several times as a tool that can be deployed for brand awareness and recognition. Speaking on insecurity as a challenge to the sector, Rilwan Saaka, Lead Faculty, Travel and Tourism, Lagos Aviation Academy, who quoted from a UNWTO report said countries such as Turkey, France, Belgium and even African cities such as Egypt, Kenya and Nigeria have suffered declines in tourism arrivals because of insecurity. “Tourism is already the largest foreign exchange earner in 46 of the 49 poorest countries in the world,” the UN agency said. “There is no way any tourism and hospitality developing country can maximise the positive aspect of tourism when dealing with issues such as insecurity, negative image and poor infrastructure. Tourism is the world’s fastest growing industry (UNWTO) but, unexpected and uncalculated threats are a major concern in this industry and can result in significant drops in tourist arrivals”. He emphasised that no tourist would want to do vacation or visit a destination where his or her safety is not guaranteed. He advocated for a good mix and balance of the 5 A’s that are essential to a successful destination. These according to him are “Accommodation: Be it hotels, inns, bed & breakfast, camper vans, cruise ship cabins, among others. “Accessibility: Airline, bus service, railway line or port, lack of adequate accessibility is frequently cited as one of the major obstacles to tourism and hospitality development and investment in a destination; Activities: What do I do when I arrive? e.g. golf, scuba-diving, jungle trek, river cruise; Amenities like restaurants, bars, shopping plazas, nightclubs, and others “Attraction as it relates to what is there to see? Examples include museums, art galleries, and amusement parks (one of the fastest growing holiday segments appealing for families with children). He queried: “How do you promote a destination where there are no good roads, no good transportation system, where people do not get value for services paid for”.