Simona Halep beat Venus Williams in straight sets in the third round of the Australian Open, and things won’t get any easier as next up is none other than Serena Williams. There wasn’t much between Halep and Venus early on in each set, but Halep pulled away after a few games in both sets—she won five games in a row from 1-2 in the first set and four games in a row from 2-3 in the second set to cruise, 6-2, 6-3, finishing the match with a forehand winner up the line. Serena booked her spot in the fourth round earlier in the day, cruising past 18-year-old Ukrainian up-and-comer Dayana Yastremska on Rod Laver Arena after an hour and seven minutes, 6-2, 6-1. Serena dominates Halep in their head-to-head series, 8-1, but their only two meetings at Grand Slams went to three sets, with Serena winning in the second round of Wimbledon in 2011, 3-6, 6-2, 6-1, and again in a grueling quarterfinal match at the US Open in 2016, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3. Halep’s lone win was a 6-0, 6-2 shocker in the round-robin stage of the WTA Finals in 2014. “I have nothing to lose,” Halep declared. “It won’t be easy. I just have to try to give my best. I’ll be playing against a great champion, so it’ll be a big challenge for me, but I’m ready to face it.” Only four players have ever beaten both Williams sisters at the same Grand Slam tournament: Martina Hingis (2001 Australian Open), Justine Henin (2007 US Open), Kim Clijsters (2009 US Open) and Karolina Pliskova (2016 US Open). Only Henin and Clijsters went on to win those titles. Meanwhile, Greek youngster, Stefanos Tsitsipas, will represent the new generation in their challenge to usurp the old guard, as he plays Roger Federer today. Federer, making his 20th Melbourne appearance, is expecting a clash of styles against Tsitsipas, who pushed the Swiss maestro to two tiebreaks at the Hopman Cup earlier this month. Big-hitting Czech Tomas Berdych, who spent a big chunk of last season on the sidelines with a back injury, will look to renew his rivalry with second seed Rafa Nadal. Nadal has a 19-4 head-to-head advantage, but Berdych will hope for a repeat of his Melbourne quarter-final win in 2015.