Abuja – South East Governors’ Forum has warned that the zone will resist with vigour any attempt to rig during the 2019 elections using security agencies as tools. It called on officers and men of the Nigerian army to be professional in the execution of their duties under the Operation Python Dance III in the zone. Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi, who is the Chairman of the forum, gave the charge in Abakaliki, while receiving the General Officer Commanding the 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj-Gen. Abubakar Maikobi. Umahi charged the army to be professional, to win the confidence of the people in the face of heightened tension, occasioned by the 2019 general elections. “The South East zone has been greatly troubled by the army’s presence, especially with its clash with members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). “The army should, therefore, remain neutral and maintain a high level of professionalism in the discharge of its duties while the operation lasts,” he said. The governor urged the military to evolve workable policies that would earn the confidence of the zone and remain neutral in the coming elections. “The zone will not have problems with any place the army chooses to establish its operational headquarters as long as it maintains its professional mandate of protecting the people. “Ebonyi, and indeed the entire South East, will resist with vigour, any attempt to rig during the elections, using security agencies as tools. “The only way Nigeria will exist beyond 2019 is for credible elections to hold where all security agencies would be seen to be neutral,” he said. Maikobi in his response, said he was in the state to familiarise with the government, the people, the state and zone as well as inform the governor of plans to commence the operation. “I have been mandated by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) to inform you as the state’s security officer that the exercise would commence from January 1 and last till February 28. “We have selected Ebonyi, under your purposeful leadership as the location for the step-up headquarters for the exercise,” he said. The GOC assured the governor that the army would remain neutral, professional and totally apolitical, while not compromising on its constitutional roles, under any guise,” he said. Opposition Parties Protest Against IGP Idris January 15 Meanwhile, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) on Sunday directed all its members in the 36 states to begin preparation for nationwide protests from January 15 if the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, is seen dressed in police uniform around the force headquarters. The coalition, which described Idris as retired IGP, going by his attainment of 35 years in the office, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint a serving police officer into the vacant office of the IGP as required by the 1999 constitution since Idris is no longer a police officer going by his clocking of the statutory 35 years in active service. The CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, noted that Idris has reached the mandatory retirement age of 35 years of active service on January 3, 2019 and will be 60 years of age on January 15. The coalition said, “The continuous illegal parading of himself as the Inspector General of Police is an act of impersonation and a threat to our national security which should be stopped summarily. “The opposition coalition wishes to remind President Buhari of the sacred provision of Section 215(1)a of the 1999 constitution which clearly holds that the president can only appoint a serving police officer as Inspector General of Police. “This means that with the reaching of the mandatory retirement age of 35 years of active service on January 3, 2019 and the mandatory retirement age of 60 years of age while in service by the IGP (which comes up on January 15, 2019) the IGP is constitutionally barred from been retained or reappointed as police IGP as he is no longer a serving police officer and his continued stay in office is illegal and an act of impersonation as there is no legal or documentary contrary evidence to back up his stay as IGP. “We call on President Buhari to be courageous to announce the replacement and not bow to the pressure to cement illegality in the core of the nation’s security architecture due to his desperation to rig himself back to power knowing he has been rejected by the Nigerian people. “The uncertainty in the leadership of the police in such auspicious moment emboldens persons with sinister motives and demoralizes senior officers of the force due to this abrupt and unlawful halt to their career progression. “The law is clear on who can be appointed as Inspector General of Police and who cannot be appointed as Inspector General of Police and Mr. Ibrahim Idris is now in the latter group. “It is flowing from this and to save our dear country from further drift from a government that lacks capacity to provide leadership to our country that the secretariat of CUPP hereby directs all coalition members in the 36 states to begin preparation for nationwide protests from January 15 if the retired IGP is seen dressed in police uniform around the force headquarters. “The protests will be in front of the police command headquarters of every state and shall be continuous till the right thing is done. “During the protests, there shall be a declaration that since Mr. Ibrahim Idris is no longer a police officer he cannot be addressed as IGP and a call to him to steer clear of the force headquarters. “By January 15, Mr. Ibrahim Idris would have attained both 35 years (January 3, 2019) in service and 60 years of age (January 15, 2019) and he would have been roundly unqualified to occupy the office of the Inspector General of Police.”