ABUJA – Ahead of the February 16 presidential polls, Yiaga Africa Watching the Vote (WTV) initiative has warned partisan elements and politicians planning to rig or compromise the election process of its readiness to expose any fraudulent dealings. The election observation group disclosed at the weekend that it has the capacity to closely monitor the process in all 774 local government areas and that over 1,515  randomly selected polling units, with the aim to verify the accuracy of the official result, enhance voter confidence and if need be expose any underhand dealings to the world. Speaking at a media round table Saturday, in Abuja , Samson Itodo, the Executive Director of Yiaga Africa, said  that through its advanced Parallel Voting Tabulation, (PVT) methodology, the group can conveniently assess conduct of the polling on election day by INEC, including activities of political parties, security agents and the entire process itself. He said the goal of the PVT provides all stakeholders a credible, independent and impartial information on election day, adding that where PVTs identify shortcomings, the data garnered can provide an objective basis for seeking peaceful resolution and improvement of the process. Therefore he cautioned those that may be plotting to rig the election, saying their efforts will be exposed “We have got a very crucial election before us, the incident of yesterday and incidents and developments in the last couple of months have pointed us to one direction, and that is a call to action by different stakeholders to actually rise up in defense of democracy. “As we go into this election in two weeks, we have got a big, big challenge before us. and that challenge is to ensure that this election reflects the will and wishes of Nigerian people. And to make that happen, civil society organisations and the media, we need to work together. We really need to work together, because February 16 and March 2nd are perhaps the only unique opportunity for Nigerian people to assert their sovereignty. And the process by which they will have to do that have to comply with standards. “So what we are going to so in deploying this methodology is to ensure that that process is free, fair and credible. And more importantly and the message to the people of Nigeria and politicians, who stop at nothing but to compromise the process is, if  there is fraud, if any attempts to compromise this election, the Yiaga Africa, Watching the Vote (WTV) Parallel Voter Tabulation( PVT ) will expose it”, he said Itodo said the methodology was deployed in the 2011 and 2015 elections as well as in the governorship elections in Anambra, Ekiti and Osun. According to the group, Yiaga will deploy a total of 3,030 polling units observers, (two per polling unit) aside 822 roving observers in all the 774 LGA, collation centres in states and Abuja. Explaining what happened in Osun, Paul James, WTV  Manager said Yiaga Africa did not deploy at the Osun rerun poll, saying that the process was flawed. According to him,  security was compromised and so prevented observers access to some polling units. He added that as a result,  Yiaga among other things will carry out advocacy to police and other security agencies before the coming polls. The group had previously deployed in elections in other African countries, including Kenya,  Ghana, Malawi, Uganda, Nigeria and Zambia.