LAGOS – This year’s Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt has been pushed back by six days to cater for Ramadan and allow Muslim players time to rest and recover after a month of fasting. The Confederation of African Football (CAF) said on Monday that the tournament would now kick off on June 21 instead of June 15. The final was put back six days to July 19. The move came after a request from a group of North African nations and CAF approved the delay at a special executive committee meeting on Saturday. Some of Africa’s biggest stars, including Egypt forward Mohamed Salah and Senegal winger Sadio Mane, are Muslims. Muslims abstain from food and drink from sunrise to sunset during Ramadan, making it difficult for their teams to train or play. This year, Ramadan ends on June 4 and the move by CAF gives Muslim players nearly a week extra to prepare for Africa’s top tournament. This is the first year the African Nations Cup will be held in June and July, coinciding with the European leagues’ offseason and falling in line with other major tournaments like the World Cup and European Championship. This is also the first year the tournament will be increased from 16 to 24 teams. Meanwhile, the 1st Vice President of CAF, who is also the President of AFCON Organizing Committee, Nigeria’s Amaju Melvin Pinnick has assured that CAF was doing everything within its power to ensure that the 32nd Africa Cup finals was a huge success. Speaking in Lagos on Monday, Pinnick, who is also President of the Nigeria Football Federation, said that CAF was aware of the apprehension of the African football stakeholders, and is putting measures in place to tackle those fears and guarantee a seamless continental tourney that everyone would be proud of. “CAF is not unmindful of the reservations being harboured in some quarters, and feelings of anxiety being expressed in several fora by some individuals and groups. What is important is that we are taking note of all these and putting measures in place to tackle these genuine fears. “At the end of the day, football would be the winner. We are very positive that those measures we have put in place and those we have lined up will culminate in an occasion that every African would be proud of, and which will leave the average football follower elsewhere enthralled.”