Osogbo – The former executive governor of Osun State and pioneer Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Adebisi Akande has revealed that he never thought he will attain a ripe age of 80. Akande who made the remarks while appreciating the gathering of eminent personalities that graced his 80th birthday celebration held in Ila Orangun, his home town said he attempted to rush things in life to achieve what he wanted to achieve before he died. He stated that his parents died young and also thought he would also die at a very young age in life. His words: “My father died at age 50 and my mother died at the tender age of 45 and I thought within me that definitely, I am not going to live long. I, therefore, tried to achieve much early in life. “When I did not die as expected, I decided to slow down and made less haste. That is God in action.  Human beings propose but God disposes of. Though as a matter of tradition, I can’t disagree with my monarchs, the Orangun of Ila who said I will clock 120years on earth, God is at the centre of it all”. He charged politicians to be less concerned about personal issues but rather think of what will benefit the society. In his remarks, Osun State governor, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola described the former governor of Osun as a person that stands out as symbol and model of politics of principle, politics without bitterness, political inclusion and integrity. According to him, Chief Bisi Akande by any estimation is a great man, a compassionate human being, an example of decorum in any circumstances and indeed a principled leader. Similarly, the immediate past governor of Osun, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola described Chief Akande as a father to all, adding that he impacted positively on whosoever comes his way. “For him, political participation is for the higher goal of improving the condition of man-galvanising the human and material resources of the society for meeting needs and solving problems and in the process bring progress.”