The National Pension Commission (PenCom) yesterday stated that it has positioned the informal sector to achieving the millennia target of financial inclusion by 2020. The commission said that it presently targets 20 million subscribers in 2019 and about 30 million by 2024 through Micro Pension Scheme, which is billed to take off later this month. Micro Pension scheme is one of the most recent initiatives of the commission and it’s designed to capture into the scheme, the informal sector operators. The targeted informal sector operators according to the commission included self-employed artisans, tailors, lawyers and accountants and those in private practices, and actors without any veritable platform to save for their retirement into the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, the Acting Director-General, PenCom, who made the disclosures in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said that the implementation of the Micro Pension Plan would improve the standard of living of the informal sector participants at retirement and reduce dependence on extended family for support at retirement. “The plan, when operational would capture self-employed people, especially, those with irregular income, usually in the informal sector, and are largely financially uninformed with limited or no access to financial services, especially, pension plan. “The commission has had engagements with informal sector groups, such as, the Nigerian Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigerian (NUTGTWN), partner trade associations, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and religious bodies in a bid to persuade them to subscribe to the micro pension plan”, she said. In a bid to achieve this, she noted that PenCom had also developed various growth initiatives in the sector in recent years. Some of these achievements included Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), which she explained had gained public confidence and acceptability; enhancement of monthly pensions, multi-fund structure for retirement savings accounts, among others. Dahir-Umar argued that available statistics showed that this group of adults working population forms an emerging middle class of the economy and constitutes about 70 per cent of the total workforce in the country, while over N3 trillion would be raked to add to the present N8.49 trillion pension assets under management from the Micro Pension Plan at the end of 2019. It would be recalled that the pension industry regulator, PenCom has so far put in place all mercenaries to ensure smooth launch of the plan. In addition, PenCom, together with pension fund operators, had built robust Information Technology (IT) infrastructure that would support the Plan.