IBADAN – There was jubilation on Thursday as aggrieved gubernatorial aspirants of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Oyo state announced the withdrawal of all cases instituted in court to challenge the emergence of Senator Olufemi Lanlehin as the candidate of the political party. The hitherto aggrieved Oyo ADC gubernatorial aspirants made this disclosure during the official inauguration of Lanlehin’s campaign organisation christened Handshake Campaign Organisation, which took place at Jogor Centre, Oke-Ado, Ibadan. The ADC gubernatorial aspirants who stormed the inauguration to declare their support for Lanlehin included: former Deputy Governor of the state, Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja; Senator Gbenga Babalola; Lowo Obisesan; Otunba Oluseye Opatoki; and Hon. Wale Adegoke. The event, which was attended by thousands of ADC members from across the 33 Local Government Areas of Oyo state, was witnessed by leaders of the political party including Chief Busari Adebisi, Chief Olayiwola Olakojo, Senator Monsurat Sumonu, and the Deputy Governorship candidate of the party, Alhaji Saheed Adejare Alaran. Arapaja, who first spoke on behalf of the aggrieved aspirants, said: “We have decided to discontinue the cases in court, and to also work with our brother, Senator Olufemi Lanlehin”. The former Oyo state Deputy Governor blamed Senator Rashidi Ladoja for causing confusion within the ADC folds before he (Ladoja) eventually moved to the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). Arapaja noted that former governor Ladoja felt that he was greater than the entire party in Oyo state, adding that everybody, saying that his character is now known. In the same vein, a former loyalist of Senator Ladoja, Chief Sunday Adeyemo (a.k.a Sunday Igboho), accused Ladoja of using police to threaten him because he refused to follow the former governor to ZLP. His words: “Senator Ladoja is now using police to threaten me. Let me assure you that I am not afraid of his threat because I have not committed any offence. I am an indigene of Oyo state, and I have the right to belong to any political party of my choice. “I love chief Ladoja so much, but I will never follow him to the Zenith Labour this time around. I told him I will not support him this time around. I have realised that he is only after his own interest. “Chief Ladoja has been causing confusion, but we thank God that things are being sorted out. Ladoja forced those who went to court to do so, but he has been disappointed today. “I am happy today that what Senator Ladoja has been to threaten our party has eventually been removed. He has been saying that because of the court cases, ADC will not have a gubernatorial candidate in Oyo state for this year’s election”.