Hon Olajide Ahmed Oseni, Action Democratic Party (ADP) candidate for Oshodi/Isolo constituency 2 at the Lagos State House of Assemblyspoke with JOY ANIGBOGU about his readiness to transform his constituency which he said has been neglected by past representatives among other issues. Excerpts: You were a member of All Progressives Congress (APC), contested the last primary election into the House of Representatives before you joined ADP. Do you think that you can unseat the incumbent House of Assembly, with your party ADP which is relatively new? The principle of leadership is not about the party that you are coming from. People now believe in the personality of the people and not about party. They do personality evaluations of who they want to vote for. People are getting tired of parties giving them candidates that cannot even give them what they want. I run a foundation that you may be very conversant with, Hope for the Masses Foundation. We run the foundation to help the educationally less privileged children. We give educational support; this NGO has been operational for a very long time. People around have been seeing the things we do, so if you want to consider a candidate, you will want to ask, what is the personality of the candidate you are voting for, because if you look at our society, you will discover that we have been lacking a lot of things. In the last four years people are not aware of the existence of any representative in this constituency at the federal or the State level, and if a person like myself, a civil servant who at the same time run an NGO come to do something for his people, how much more when he becomes a sitting representative, he will do more to impact on their people’s lives. If you go to our public schools you will understand what I am talking about. They make parents buy chairs and desks for their wards. There are no writing materials for the children. In a civilized society like Lagos, education of the children should be the responsibility of government. The primary school education board and management of primary schools should be culpable. Can you outline the strategies that you want to use to actualise some of these things that you just mentioned? If you can remember, I told you earlier that I am an Awori (indigene of Lagos State). My mother is from Oshodi/Isolo Local Government Area (LGA) and my father is from Alimiosho LGA and so you can see that I have no option than to give quality representation to my constituents. I am not being tribal here, you also remember that I told you that I went to Imo state university; I do not give consideration to tribal differences. You need to be specific now, what are you going to do for this constituency if you emerge its representative? The constituency has been in existence before the emergence of Ikorodu which was under Ogun State. Between 2008 and 2012 major developments went to Ikorodu axis, construction and dual carriage of Ibeji road and some construction of major roads in Ikorodu. How many companies does Ikorodu have compared with Oshodi/Isolo? What is the return in terms of taxation? A constituency that provides the largest land that leads to the airport. Large taxation and less development comes to the constituency and it is because every member or representative have different objectives, some go there to make requisitions and wait for their allowances to come, some others sacrifice projects in their constituencies in return for money. Sometimes you may discover that your street was among those listed to have been constructed and you will be shocked because you live there and know that no construction took place there. You will just discover that someone has signed and collected money meant for the construction of your street. They can do that because they have alternative places to go but I won’t do that because I have nowhere to go.