The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) yesterday disclosed that the Board of French Development Agency (AFD) has approved 245 million dollars for the implementation of transmission projects in northern corridor. Mrs Ndidi Mbah, the General Manager, Public Affairs, TCN, who made this known in a statement on Monday in Abuja, said that the fund was approved on December 20, 2018. It would be recalled that the TCN has continued to implement its Transmission Rehabilitation and Expansion Programme (TREP) aimed at rehabilitating, stabilising, and providing necessary redundancy consistent with international transmission standard of N-1. The TREP was also designed to expand the national grid to at least 20,000MW. The implementation of TREP has attracted significant support from multilateral and bilateral donors never witnessed in the history of the nation’s power sector. Key international donors supporting TREP include the French Development Agency, World Bank, African Development Bank and Japan International Cooperation. According to Mbah, the European Union (EU) earlier approved a grant of 25 million Euros for part construction of the northern corridor transmission project under the AFD support programme. She said the approval of the Northern corridor project by the board of AFD and the EU was a significant step toward establishing a modern grid in Nigeria. The TCN general manager said that the northern project, expected to form the backbone for the West African Power Pool (WAPP) North Core Projects, would connect Nigeria, Niger, Benin and Burkina Faso on 330kV Double Circuit (DC) transmission lines. “It is also expected to construct the Kainji-Birnin-Sokoto 330kV DC line and the Katsina-Daura-Gwiwa-Jogana-Kura 330kV DC line. “The project will reconstruct one of the Shiroro-Kaduna 330kV single circuit transmission lines into 330kV quad line which will be the first of its kind in Nigeria. “The project will construct 330/132/33kV substations in Sokoto, Daura and Jogana-Kano and 132/33kV substations at Birnin Gwari, Argungu and Lambata in Niger State. “It will also rehabilitate Jebba and Kainji switch yards to ensure adequate capacity to evacuate Mainstream’s energy expansion plans,’’ Mbah said.