LAGOS – It was a gathering of the crème of Nigeria’s political class, captains of industries, entertainment world and other eminent personalities converged on Eko Hotel and Suites in Victoria Island Lagos last Thursday as Independent Newspapers Limited (INL), publishers of Daily Independent, Saturday and Sunday Independent titles honoured deserving Nigerians who have distinguished themselves in various fields of endeavour at the INDEPENDENT Awards 2018. This year’s edition, which was aired live on national television, saw a great improvement over last year’s award ceremony in terms of coordination, coverage and attendance as two sitting governors, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State and Seriake Dickson personally graced the occasion while some of their colleagues who were unavoidably absent due to pressing state matters sent in representatives. In his welcome address, Mr. Ade Ogidan, Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief said the newspaper will continue to honour Nigerians who have made positive impacts in the lives of others, who are proud ambassadors of the country and are contributing to the growth and development of the country. “We are here today to celebrate great Nigerians who have distinguished themselves and made great impact on nation-building. This event is to tell a story of achievers with impeccable profile” he said. Mansur Ahmed, Chairman of the occasion in his speech, observed that the occasion was to honour “men and women who have distinguished themselves. For Nigeria to be great, we have to recognise, honour our great men and women.” Receiving his award as Governor of The Year for his diligent delivery of democratic dividends to the people of Delta State and working to make Nigeria’s democracy better , Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, in his acceptance speech attributed his success stories to years of learning the act of governance and strong partnership with the people of Delta State in delivering democratic dividends said: “Recall that last year, I was here to receive the ‘Man of The Year Award, 2017’ and I am honoured again today. These are possible because we are in perfect relationship with our people back home. “I thank God for His blessings. Though the terrain was tough, but I am able to succeed with our people because of the experience we have garnered in the act of governance over the years, in partnership with all Deltans that are now, more united than ever. As a government, we will continue to ensure good governance and better days ahead for us all. “I am comfortable saying that we are achieving results, which has earned us several awards, including this one, because of positive partnership that brings confidence and satisfaction to our people, no matter where they may be, and as an individual, I will continue to appreciate Deltans for the genuine partnership with my administration.” On his part, Governor Seriake Dickson, who emerged ‘Man Of The Year’ at the event, dedicated his award to the people of the state for the support given to his government since coming to office. He also congratulated Okowa for his deserved ward, noting that he and other award recipients at the ceremony “have contributed greatly to the building of the nation. Rt. Hon. Onofiok Akpan Luke, Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State of House of Assembly who was honoured as the ‘Outstanding State Legislator of the Year 2018’ dedicated the award to the governor of Akwa Ibom state, Deacon Udom Emmanuel and his colleagues in the House whom he said elected him as primus interpares despite being the youngest member and has given him tremendous support so far. According to Luke “I dedicate this award first and foremost to God Almighty, who raised a young boy from the dust to see today to come to this Conference Centre and be awarded”. “I also dedicate this award to my colleagues standing here with me , who despite being the youngest among them all, they elected me as their Speaker. I also dedicate this award to the incoming governor of Akwa Ibom state, Governor Udom Gabriel Emmanuel and I also dedicate this award to Akwa Ibom people who have stood by us and have supported us to come this far”. In other categories, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers received the Political Icon of the Year 2018, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia received Governor of the Year 2018 Award in Entrepreneurship; and Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu received Governor of the Year 2018 in Grassroots Development. Aare Afe Babalola, founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD) received the Achiever of the Year 2018 Award while Alhaji Ismaila Isa Funtua received the Life Achievement Award, same as Prince Samuel Adedoyin, Chairman, Doyin Group of Companies. Chief John Nnia Nwodo Jnr, President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and Iba Gani Adams, Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, jointly received the Bridge Builder of the Year 2018 Award. Activist and Ekiti State First Lady, Erelu Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi, received the Gender Activist of the Year 2018 Award. Nollywood actress, Mary Njoku emerged Entertainment Personality of the Year 2018 while Odunlade Adekola won the Actor of the Year 2018 Award. Amongst corporate institutions, Air Peace Airline won Airline of the Year 2018 Award; Leadway Assurance was Insurance Company of the Year 2018; the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) was Federal Agency of the Year, and the National Pension Commission was voted Outstanding Regulator of the Year 2018. Big time player, Globacom Limited, was picked as Telecommunications Company of 2018 while Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) emerged Outstanding State Agency of the Year 2018. Some notable personalities who graced the occasion are Chief Olabode George, a former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Otunba Gbenga Daniel, former governor of Ogun state, Jimi Agbaje, governorship candidate of the PDP in Lagos State, Williams Makinde, Managing Director, Delta State Oil Producing Area Developmental Commission (DESOPADEC) and Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele, a former Deputy Governor of Lagos State. Others are Alhaji Ismaila Isa Funtua, Sam Amuka- Pemu, publisher of Vanguard Newspapers Limited, Chief James Onanefe Ibori (Odidigborigbo) , former governor of Delta State and publisher of the INDEPENDENT titles, Alhaji Mujahid Asari Dokubo, Patrick Ukah, Delta Commissioner for Information Chief Sunny Onuesoke and Mr Ted Iwere, former Managing Director of Independent Newspapers Limited.