Penultimate week, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola(SAN),handed the second tranche of the Federal Government’s N100billion Sovereign Sukuk Bond initiated to fund about 28 key road projects in the country. In this report, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR, examined the import and challenges of Sukuk bond in Nigeria’s economy. Sukuk” is an Arabic term which simply means “certificates”. Its origins can be traced to the classical Islamic period during which papers representing financial obligations from trade and other commercial activities were issued. In its present form, a sukuk issue is similar to the conventional concept of securitisation – a process in which ownership of an underlying asset/project or transaction is transferred to a large number of investors through certificates representing proportionate value of the relevant assets. The Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI) defines sukuk as “certificates of equal value representing common shares in ownership of tangible assets, usufruct and services or (in the ownership of) the assets of a particular project or a specific investment activity.” The sukuk has swiftly emerged as an alternative financing mode for sovereigns and corporates alike (regardless of faith) and is now popularly termed the flagship instrument of the Non interest Finance industry Besides, the development of sukuk market, as understood in its contemporary form, lies in a decision of the Islamic Jurisprudence Council (IJC, based in Saudi Arabia) in February 1988 which provided that, “any combination of assets (or the usufruct of such assets) can be represented in the form of written financial instruments which can be sold at a market price provided that the composition of the group of assets represented by the sukuk consist of a majority of tangible assets.” Since gaining traction in early 2000, the sukuk industry has seen unprecedented growth as a viable alternative to mobilising long term savings and investment from Islamic investors as well as providing a liquidity management tool for Islamic financial institutions such as pension and zakat funds and insurance (takaful) institutions, particularly given the negotiable nature of the product and its listing on recognised stock exchanges – NASDAQ Dubai being one of the prominent exchanges. The FGN sovereign sukuk The FGN’s sukuk issuance is the first attempt by the Federal Government to raise funds through the non interest capital market. The sukuk issue is targeted at infrastructure development and financial inclusion This offer is the culmination of several years of pioneering efforts by financial service regulators – the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Inland Revenue Service, the National Insurance Commission and the National Pension Commission. The sukuk offer will be deployed to the construction of twenty five major federal roads and bridges across Nigeria’s six geopolitical zones. Information on the use of proceeds is provided in greater detail in the prospectus Compliance with Islamic law All non-interest products and services including sukuks are required to be reviewed and certified as compliant with the principles of Islamic law by a Shariah board composed of scholars knowledgeable in non-interest finance prior to issuance. Nigeria’s Sukuk Journey Since the fall in price of crude oil, the revenue of the Federal Government has been affected significantly given that oil is a major source of government funds. Due to the decline, the government has been contending with the challenge of financing its budget deficit. And the onus for the efficient management of the debt and sourcing for funds to finance budget deficits rests on the Debt Management Office (DMO). The agency has been using innovative strategies to raise funds to successfully fund the deficits over the years. As part of its Strategic Plan, 2013-2017, it has the objective of developing alternative sources of raising finance for development and attracting a wider pool of investors. One of these is the issuance of a Sovereign non-interest financing products (Sukuk) in the domestic debt market, that would not only serve as an alternative source of financing for the government, but also facilitate the mobilisation of idle funds and allocation of scare resources within the economy. Recently, the government through FGN Roads Sukuk Company 1 Plc issued a 7-Year N100billion Sukuk (bond). The Sukuk is offered at N1, 000/unit (minimum of N10, 000 or 10 units) like a regular bond but represents an ownership interest in the asset to be financed rather than a debt obligation. As such, participants will be paid a semi-annual, tax-free rental income (not coupons) of 16.47% on a pro-rata basis. The issuance is open to all investors but specifically offers ethical investors an opportunity to partner with the Federal Government to fund developmental projects. The sukuk represents the form of alternative funding for the Federal Government, who is looking to raise as much as $5 billion from the foreign debt markets. Some of the roads to be funded by the bond included the Ibadan-Ilorin Roadd, Kolo-Otuoke-Bayelsa-Palm Road, Enugu-Port Harcourt Road, Kaduna Eastern By-Pass, Kano-Maiduguri Road and Loko-Oweto Bridge over River Benue. According to market operators, Nigeria’s sukuk bond makes a lot of sense considering that the country is home to the largest Islamic population in sub-Saharan Africa. Therefore, generating interest in the bond should not be much of a problem. Although this is the first sukuk at a federal level, it is not the first in Nigeria. Osun State had in 2013, issued N10billion worth of sukuk. The bond was successfully completed and over-subscribed by 20%. By the end of 2015, total assets under management in the global Islamic finance industry surpassed $2.5 trillion as more and more investors continue allocating their funds to Shariah compliant instruments across the globe. Observers said there is a huge, unmet demand for Sukuk issuances from high-potential economies like Nigeria, especially in view of the fact that similar issues by peer countries were oversubscribed.