AWKA – Hon. Justice Peter Umeadi, the Chief Judge of Anambra State, has sworn in 11 Deputy Chief Registrars charged with case evaluation in all the judicial divisions in the state. The registrars came on board as the Chief Judge instituted an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanism which he said would nip in the bud cases even at pre-trial stage without going through full-scale litigation processes. Justice Umeadi charged the Deputy Registrars with the responsibility of evaluating the contentious issues in all civil cases brought before the high court and advise litigants on appropriate means of resolving their disputes either by exploring the Multi-door Court System using ADR or through regular court room litigation, as last resort. He described their appointment as another bold attempt to change the way things are done in the state’s judicial system, sequel to the review of the High Court civil procedure rules. Justice Umeadi explained that Order 4, Rules 1, 2 and 3 of the Civil Procedure Rules established the office and set out the responsibilities of the Deputy Chief Registrars for case evaluation, saying that the judiciary under his leadership was poised to implement the very laudable provision in the statute book to evolve a new era of quick dispensation of justice and settlement of conflicts. He said, “There has been wide spread complaints about delays in the court system. But all over the world, efforts are being made to enhance access and hasten processes, so that citizens would maintain trust in the system and not get frustrated with many years of unending litigations.” He noted that Anambra State was second only to Lagos State in terms of the quantum of cases that comes to its courts. He, however, noted that “Lagos State being a highly populated megapolis when compared with the small population of Anambra State goes to show that on the average, Anambra could be said to have the highest of murder cases per head, than any other place in the country on a regular bases.” Justice Umeadi who took time to tutor the appointees on the demands of their new office, urged them to see themselves as pioneers who would take the state judiciary into a new era of easier, faster and seamless adjudication of cases. He told them that they were “empowered to look into and resolve all interim and interlocutory applications as stipulated in the rules, and as may be specified by the Chief Judge from time to time, through the practice direction.” This, he said, they must achieve beginning from the period when parties filed pleadings to the period of 45 days that is fixed for Pre-trial Conferences, and write their reports or issue their certificates of settlement, for the courts to make a consented judgment, which would finally settled such cases. The Chief Judge promised that an induction seminar would be organised for the case evaluation officers, to enable them assimilate the rules and understand their responsibilities in order to function well in the new dispensation. Responding on behalf of other DCR’s, Mr. Nnamdi Osaka described their appointment as a bold step towards re-engineering the wheel of justice for optimum service delivery. Meanwhile, Justice Umeadi released 13 inmates of Onitsha Prisons, some of whom have either overstayed as awaiting trial inmates or had health issues.