ABUJA – Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has said the United States is in support of his presidential bid. Atiku, who visited the country for the first time in 13 years, said this in an interview with the Voice of America (VOA). The interviewer had asked: “Are you convinced that the United States government is in support of your candidacy?” “Yes,” he responded. Asked to explain further, Atiku said: “There is no doubt because the United States is ready to support any country that is practicing democracy.” He dismissed the reports that the US refused to grant him visa for over 10 years because he was linked to a corruption case. “The whole thing is about misinformation… for a very long time they, have been lying to them (Nigerians); I tried to explain to them but they refused to listen. And I hope now people are going to understand.” He said he visited the US because they decided to issue him a visa, adding that he would not have made it if they had declined his visa request. “And now they have issued it to me and I am here. I’m having some positive discussions with some of the officials,” he said. “I was in the Congress and I had discussions with some high ranking Congress men and Women about Nigeria and how Nigeria intends to improve her relationship with the United States of America.” Meanwhile, the Federal Government on Friday slammed a N156million fraud allegation against  Atiku Abubakar, insisting that he was an accomplice in the liquidation of Bank PHB. Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed disclosed this to State House Correspondents at the presidential villa, Abuja on the heels of Atiku’s visit to the United States of America. The Minister, who said the All Progressive Congress and administration of President Muhammadu Buhari was not perturbed by Atiku’s US trip, challenged him to return to the country and explain to Nigerians his role in the bankruptcy of Bank PHB, now Key Stone Bank. Buttressing the allegation, Lai said Atiku was a beneficiary of N156million from a slush fund account traced to Claremont Management Services. He said the fraud took place in 2009. Although he debunked the possibility of Atiku being picked up by any of the anti-graft agencies when he returns from America, Lai warned the PDP candidate to hurry back to defend his position in the alleged huge corruption which led to the collapse of the bank. The information minister had earlier raised concern on plans by the United State government to issue a visa to the PDP presidential candidate. According to him, granting a visa to Atiku who has not traveled the US in the past 12 years will mean his endorsement for the 2019 general election by the Trump government. But reacting to the recent trip, the minister said “I have come to make few remarks about the recent visit of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party to the US. You can recall that few weeks ago, I did issue a statement advising the US government not to issue visa to Atiku. “Remember also that in that same press conference, I also stated that it remains the prerogative of the US government to issue visa to anyone it deems fit. “Let me say right away that we are not perturbed one bit that Alhaji Atiku Abukakar was able to secure visa to the US. As a matter of fact, he can go ahead and get the US Green card that will not save him from imminent defeat in the forthcoming election. I want to remind Abubakar that the elections will be right here in Nigeria and not in the US,” Lai noted. He explained further that the Federal Government has evidence, including a memo from Bank PHB dated 13th January 2009 requesting for N156million drawn from an account; Claremont Management Services to be credited in favour of the former Vice President. Lai also noted that the government was in possession of a cheque dated the same day on the transaction in favour of the PDP presidential candidate. Asked whether there were other beneficiaries of the slush funds, the minister said he was only interested in the involvement of the former Vice President role in the alleged corruption which led to the collapse of the bank. The information said “in any event, any time Abubakar returns home, he has questions to answer following the fresh evidence that we have that he benefitted from slush funds that led to the collapse of the former Bank PHB. “The document we have shows that he benefitted to the tune of N156 million from that slush fund. “The paper which we have here stated from an internal memo on the Jan. 13, 2009, in which reads; please refer for discussion your requested overdraft in favour of Atiku Abubakar for N156 million and deliver same to me. “Please note that it must be delivered today, January 13 on the same date, another memo was generated to confirm—please confirm that the amount stated below be issued from Claremont Management Services account. “And we have evidence here of the account mandate—the name of Atiku Abubakar; we also have a copy of the cheque in which the sum of N156 million was issued to Atiku Abubakar dated Jan. 13, 2009 and of course we also have statement of account within that period that confirms that this sum was actually paid into his account. “These are fresh evidence as to his involvement in the collapse of Bank PHB, so want to him to stay as long he wants in the US but as soon he comes back; he has to explain to the electorates and to Nigerians what is his role in the collapse former Bank PHB.”