Dr Tunde Oyemade, a Public Policy Analyst, in this interview spoke on crucial issues bothering on the coming general elections, even as he touched on the state of insecurity and the planned trial of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU. As Nigerians get ready for the 2019 general elections, what are your thought on the election? I am not happy over what have been happening in the country, especially during and after the Ekiti and Osun states’ governorship elections. I am not in support of either the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). From our experience with the two parties, we are far from the real democracy. I would have loved us to return to two parties instead of what we have presently. However, in terms of structure, both APC and PDP have them. All other parties lack formidable structures. That is why Nigerians do not have much choice outside the two parties. If we have maximum of three parties, things would have been better as there would have been another option to choose from instead of only the APC and PDP. Look at the APC. Having neglected South East since three and half years, they are moving towards the region now the elections are close. When President Muhammadu Buhari came in, many of us advised that he should be allowed to pick those he could work with to deliver on his promises to Nigeria and move the nation forward. But, what did we get? He decided to pick his people from only one part of the country. In the fight against corruption, Nigerians had expected the government to pick up all the known corrupt people, get their names published and their loots recovered. It may be a layman’s option. But, what did we see? The war against corruption became one sided, targeted against political opponents, while it is believed that a lot of corruption has been going on under the nose of the president. Since President Buhari became into power, I am not sure the true results of the investigations have been released. Yet, the government has been focusing on corruption, neglecting other things. Who in Nigeria is not corrupt? What is needed is to reduce the level of corruption and use all the recovered loots and the recovered loot for the benefit of every part of the nation. When the government came in, they said that constant power would be restored within six months. Three and half years after, where is the power? Companies and industries have relocated out of Nigeria. There is much more poverty now. Every sector of the economy is complaining. The value of the Naira is at its lowest level. We have Yahoo, Yahoo Plus, 419ers, kidnappers, ritual killers. All these have become more pronounced under the APC administration. Nigerians no longer trust security agencies. As Nigerians are going into elections this year, I am very much worried. What is your take on the controversy involving the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, over his assets declaration? This controversy is wrongly timed. I doubt if the allegations against the Chief Justice Onnoghen is really true. But, government must be very careful of whatever it does at this period. Nigeria is in a critical period. However, we are watching as the development unfolds. What is your view on Amina Zakari’s position as head of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) national collation centre, as she is fingered to be a relation of the President? In a decent society or nation, she should have been  removed. Even the INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, claim that he cannot do anything about it. The current Nigerian government is playing with God. With Amina Zakari at INEC, there is fear that the election cannot be free and fair. Whether she is there or not, they will still do whatever they want to do. But, they are playing with God. Do you really think that INEC can deliver free, fair and credible elections this year? I doubt it. The government is using law enforcement agencies to attack people with contrary opinions. The APC government must allow other views. You were once quoted to have advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) not to field President Muhammadu Buhari for the 2019 election. Now that he is contesting, are you still insisting that APC was wrong in fielding him? Yes, I did so as far back as 2016. It was in the media. The party is wrong to have fielded Buhari for second term. The APC does not like the truth. Look at the issue concerning the presidential debate. They have been dilly dallying on it. Look at Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Buhari abandoned him for three years. Now that the election is coming, he has brought Tinubu back. Who knows if he will not drop him again after helping him to win again? However, I doubt if APC will win this election if it is free and fair. Everything is working against the government now. Nothing is working in the country any more. You also warned in the past that the nation was sinking deeper into instability. Has that situation changed now? Is it still not the same thing now? The situation is even worse now. When people pray, a lot of things happen. It is prayers that have been sustaining the nation. With Nigerians, including soldiers still being killed by the Boko Haram, would you say the country is winning the war against insurgency as government claims? The government and the military are not winning. Now, it is being alleged that they are sending southerners to the war areas to fight the Boko Haram where they are being killed. They released several arrested Boko Haram insurgents. Many of them have allegedly been recruited into the Army. Look at the killings by herdsmen. It is still going on. People believe that what is happening is the preparation for a Jihad. But, they will not succeed. There is a lot of religious segregation now than before. Most of the security chiefs are from one religion and one section of the country. Things have gone so bad. Between President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who do you think Nigerians should choose as their next president? If the truth must be told, Nigerians are tired of Buhari. That is the honest truth. I do not belong to either APC or PDP as both parties do not have the interest of the common man at heart. But now, there is no alternative to the two. I believe that Nigerians will prefer the opposition party now. Don’t you think the younger candidates stand a chance of winning this election? I don’t think they stand a chance. They should prepare for the next election. It would have been better if the smaller parties come together to give Nigerians the third alternative. Now, they lack the structure and experience to compete with APC and PDP. I suggest that smaller parties should merge before the next election so that they will become formidable to compete and win in 2013. What shape do you think the Lagos election will take considering the violence that greeted the kick off of the APC’s campaign? I foresee a shift, a turn-around. Many will go for the opposition this time. Jimi Agbaje wants to give Lagosians freedom. APC is a very proud party. How can one man want to dominate and Lagos will move forward? Jimi Agbaje may spring a surprise this year. Nobody can scare people away from polling booths. People really want to vote. The way Lagos money is being spent is a mystery. Look at how known corrupt people defected to APC to escape prosecution. It is believed that money was planted in judges’ houses to arrest them. It is the Judiciary that has been saving this country. Both the Executive and the Legislature have failed Nigeria. What are your last words as Nigerians prepare for the general elections? My prayer is that there will be no war in Nigeria. The Federal Government should allow voting to go on without manipulations.