Priyanka Chopra’s wedding to singer Nick Jonas was arguably one of the most talked about weddings in all of Bollywood. They had a three-day ceremony which began on December 1, 2018, at the Taj’s Umaid Bhawan Palace in Jodhpur. Priyanka and Nick had two wedding ceremonies, an Indian one and a Western one which was attended by their family, friends and stars from Hollywood and Bollywood. Now, a video has surfaced of Priyanka’s appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show where she has revealed her wedding made her mother Madhu Chopra upset. In the video clip, the Bollywood actress is seen telling Ellen that her wedding went on for three days and it consisted of an Indian ceremony, a Western ceremony and one day of rituals. Priyanka explained that her mother was upset by the intimate nature of the wedding and that it should have been a much bigger spectacle. In contrast to Madhu’s thoughts, Ellen described it as a “huge wedding which was like the royal wedding.” The Baywatch actress said: “Usually Indian weddings have like a thousand people, we had only 200 which was mostly family. Both of us have giant families.” When asked why didn’t she have a wedding with 1,000 guests, the Quantico star responded: “Because we wanted to keep it intimate. We wanted to keep it just about family.” Later Priyanka said that the number of guests made her mother upset as she wanted to host another party for all the other people her daughter knew. Chopra said: “My mother was so upset with me the whole time. “She was like I need to have another party for the 150,000 people I know.” “How can I not invite my jeweller, how can I not invite my hairdresser?” “This was the conversation.” Priyanka went on to joke that Ellen never responded to her invite and it seemed like the two had an enjoyable time talking to one another. Prior to her own delightful wedding, PeeCee was a guest at the Royal Wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, which was a very grand affair but still not matching a Desi Wedding! On the work front, Priyanka will be making her big comeback in Bollywood with the film The Sky is Pink which also stars Farhan Akhtar and Zaira Wasim. The biopic is being directed by Shonali Bose.