Lagos – With a population of over 180 million people and one of the highest consumer countries in the world, Nigeria generates more solid wastes than it produces goods for export. After crude oil, Nigeria’s biggest export, started witnessing a tremendous drop in price per barrel, a good number of citizens retraced their career steps  to agriculture that used to be our biggest export in the ’60s. According to a report by BioEnergy Consult in July 2018, Nigeria generates more than 32 million tons of solid waste annually, out of which only 20-30% is collected. With this disturbing quantity, it is time the Nigerian government start thinking of waste as the next viable source of income as the natural resources are decreasing day by day. Saturday INDEPENDENT’s investigations, during a visit to the popular Mosalashi Alhaja market in Agege, Lagos revealed how lucrative recycling clean wastes can become if the government puts in the right resources. At the railway line area of the market, there is a big market for plastic scraps, breakable bottles; empty metal can of drinks, iron and cartons. Most of the buyers who sell to other middlemen to recycle companies are women, a business some of them say they have been into for over 20 years. Speaking with one of the youngest buyers of scraps who gave her name as Amira, she said that she has been helping her mother in the business since she was in Junior Secondary School. “We buy the scraps from street vendors who either pick from dumpsites or pick from the streets and then we sell to people that sell to companies or sometimes sell directly to the companies,” she said. Amira told Saturday INDEPENDENT that they buy the scraps by measuring them per kilogram. One kilogram of iron scrap, according to her, is bought for N70 and sold to companies for N100. One kilogram of plastic is bought for N30 and sold for N50. One kilo of the carton is bought for N10 and sold for N30. Carton was the cheapest as at the time our reporter visited the market because it was not in demand by companies at that time. How many kilograms of scraps do they buy and sell daily? Amira said they buy close to 700 to 1000 kilogrammes every day. This sums up to N70,000, N30,000 and N10,000 respectively after multiplying the amount per kilo of each unit scrap by 1000. One of the leaders in the scrap business, who chose to be called Madam Temitayo told Saturday INDEPENDENT that she has been in the business for over 20 years. She explained that at first, when she was introduced to the trade, she was reluctant and wondered how she would cope with staying around dirty items. “At first I was concerned about staying around dustbin at all times, but when I remember I have a family to feed, I summoned courage. Now it’s more than 20 years I have been in this business. Though it can get better, there is a lot of room for improvement. I thank God that my family has never been hungry since I started this business, “she said. Madam Temitayo, a grandmother said that she has been able to introduce a few other women who have no means of livelihood into the business of creating wealth from trash. The fact is that, if these women and other stakeholders are encouraged, recycling of waste will be an alternative source of employment for millions of Nigerians that are apparently ‘wasting’ away after schooling or vocational training. BioEnergy Consult was telling government at the federal level as a matter of urgency that there is need to revive its regulatory framework that will be attractive for private sectors to invest in waste collection, recycling and reusing. Experts lamented how disheartening it has become especially in most cities of Nigeria at the rate of hardship residents face from horrendous smell and suffocative fumes of wastes. Most streets are blocked with huge piles of wastes. Solid waste management is the most pressing environmental challenge faced by urban and rural areas of Nigeria. Nigeria is one of the largest producers of solid waste in Africa. Despite a host of policies and regulations, solid waste management in the country is assuming alarming proportion. At a time when developed countries are generating energy in the form of electricity and/or heat from the primary treatment of waste, Nigeria is letting theirs go to ruins. Norway and Sweden are top on the list of countries in the world that buy wastes from other countries. Norway, though blessed with bountiful oil supplies, is importing as much rubbish as it can get its hands on, in an effort to generate more energy by burning waste in vast incinerators. The Eurotrash business may sound like an unpromising enterprise, but it’s one that is increasingly profitable. The UK paid to send 45,000 tonnes of household waste from Bristol and Leeds to Norway between October 2012 and April 2013. Waste to energy has become a preferred method of rubbish disposal in the EU, and there are now 420 plants in Europe equipped to provide heat and electricity to more than 20 million people. Germany ranks top in terms of importing rubbish, ahead of Sweden, Belgium and the Netherlands. But it’s Norway that boasts the largest share of waste to energy in district heat production. When it comes to recycling, Sweden is incredibly successful. Just four per cent of household waste in Sweden goes into landfills. The rest winds up either recycled or used as fuel in waste-to-energy power plants. Burning the garbage in the incinerators generates 20 per cent of Sweden’s district heating, a system of distributing heat by pumping heated water into pipes through residential and commercial buildings. It also provides electricity for a quarter of a million homes. Considering how many times oil marketers hold the country to ransom because of importation of fuel, thinking of converting wastes into fuel may serve as an alternative that can redeem the country from such situations. Generating enough power for electricity has been the major concern of every government that comes into power. Even with the billions of naira injected into the sector, the progress has been slow. This may be the appropriate time to take a cue from these countries who have found ways of converting wastes into reusable energy. In a positive note, recycling is not completely an alien word to Nigerians. In recent times, one could notice that there are street vendors collecting solid wastes like broken plastics, empty bottle water cans, irons and metals. These materials are said to be sold to a few companies that melt and convert them into other things. Though there is a market for scraps, it is not yet a big market compare to the amount of solid waste generated daily. For many years now, open-air burning of municipal wastes is the commonest way Nigeria manages their wastes. This act has often been condemned severally by climate experts, who claimed the barbaric practice is dangerous to the environment and human beings. Sometime in July 2018, residents of Ojota area in Lagos were thrown into darkness as the atmosphere was covered with thick smoke from the heap of burning wastes. It is on record that Ojota holds one of the largest waste dumpsites on Lagos mainland and whenever it is set ablaze to reduce the garbage, the smoke it generates takes weeks to filter. That zone becomes suicidal for any asthma patient, whether resident or passerby. Also, animal wastes, which used to be the main source to grow plants in agriculture in the past, are now burnt as well. A Lagos based author, Mathew Adebisi, told our reporter how one of his lecturers, Professor Olu Odeyemi of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife used animal dung to power his car back in the 90’s. Professor Odeyemi, a senior lecturer at the Microbiology department, in collaboration with his students discovered through research how animal dung can be converted to energy to power gas plant of their massive laboratory for other scientific researches. Mr Adebisi stated that throughout their study years, which was between 1986 and 1990, their department never bought gas. The laboratory plant was powered by animal dung gotten from the campus abattoir. Speaking further on how Professor Odeyemi used the dung to power his vehicle, Adebisi, now a writer with a notable media house said, “he has a tank attached on top of the roof of his car where the animal dung is refilled every week. Throughout our years in school, we powered our gas plant with animal dung. We even cooked with the gas.” More so, Adebisi said that Professor Odeyemi in one of his lectures about converting waste to energy mentioned that after he and his team discovered animal dung as possible gas to power vehicles, he got in touch with the government under the leadership of the late President Shehu Shagari, but nothing positive came out of the meeting. “They just told him, they would get back to him and that was all till date. It’s unfortunate that up till date, large quantities of animal dungs are regarded as no value and burnt as mere waste,” he said. Speaking with the former General Manager of Hardis and Dromedas Recycle Center, Joseph Meze, was an eye-opener on how used sachet water nylons are recycled and used to produce new sachet water. Running us through the routine of turning the nylon waste into bags of water that goes back into the market, he said. “At Hardis and Dromedas Recycle Centre, they recycle used sachet water bags. Suppliers bring about 10 to 200 tons of used sachet water bags monthly. The sachet bags first go through a washing machine and then it is sent to the shredding machine, which shreds them into pieces. “From the shredding machine, it goes to dryer and from dryer, it goes to the actual machine that will melt it. From the melting down, it passes through cold water. From the cold water, which solidifies it, it will go to the cutting machine. The cutting machine cuts it into tiny pebbles, then its bagged and weighed. “It goes back into another machine that will blow it up and it becomes flat foliage. It goes into another machine that rolls them up into 7kg rolls that will help it go into the printing for the water company that needs it at the moment. From that printing machine, the bags are sent to the machine that dispenses water which turns them into sachet water again.” On how much the recycling centre buys one ton of used sachet bags, he said that each ton is bought at N4000. He further explained that the company recycles around two to three tons daily depending available customers. The recycled sachet bags are bought by pure water producing companies at N20,000 to N30,000 per ton. As reproduced sachets, each ton makes up to 6000 sachet bags waiting to be filled with water. Hardis and Dromedas recycle plant has been running since 2012 and is owned by a former Anambra State governorship aspirant. The recycling plant is located at Umunya, Anambra State.