LAGOS – The All Progressive Congress (APC) senatorial candidate in Lagos East and member representing Kosofe constituency 1 in the Lagos state House of Assembly, Hon. Bayo Osinowo has pleaded with Nigerians to ensure a peaceful election in the new year,saying no ambition is worth shedding of human blood He also described 2019 as a year of collective rededication by the good people of Lagos state and Nigerians in general to the tenets of good governance and development. In a new year statement made available to the press by his media team, the senatorial candidate urged Nigerians to rededicate themselves to the desire for a better country this year by voting for the ruling APC across the country. ‘’We must eschew thuggery, violence and desperation as we approach the general elections.” He appealed to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agents to provide the required atmosphere for free, fair and credible elections across the country,’’ Urging Nigerians to take advantage of the general elections in 2019 to reiterate their preferences for good governance which they chose in 2015,the senatorial aspirant said the country needs to continue on the path to socio-economic and political recovery under the leadership of President Muhammad Buhari-led APC. “Nigerians have chosen good governance. We now have a system that is gradually returning sanity to our polity. In 2019, just like we did in 2015, we need to once again choose good governance by voting for the APC across the country. That is the way we can reiterate to the whole world that we desire to see our country take her place among the comity of great nations. Four more years of President Buhari and the APC is essential to ensure that all the gains of the past four years are not squandered by those whose speciality is to corner our collective patrimony.” He gave glory to God that the good people of Kosofe, the wonderful people of Lagos and Nigerians as a whole witnessed the beginning of a new year and commiserated with relatives of those who lost their lives in 2018. According to him: “Though 2018 came with numerous individual and collective challenges, God spared us from evil so we can be part of this new year. It is therefore a time to give God praises and dedicate ourselves to everything that is good and acceptable before God.