ABUJA – Nasarawa State Governor, Tanko Al-Makura, has described the Eighth National Assembly as the worst set of legislators Nigeria ever had, saying none of them had shown real commitment to national development. He said the situation informed his decision to contest for the senatorial position in the forthcoming general election, which is slated for February 2019. According to the governor, the current crop of legislators failed woefully in complimenting President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, a situation that has resulted in poor developmental strides in the past three-and-a-half years. He also told State House Correspondents shortly after a meeting with President Buhari, that his ambition to become a senator was to bridge the gap in legislation when the Ninth National Assembly would come on stream. His words: “There are basically two things that necessitated my desire, one is to see that the APC takes Nigeria to the next level nationally and to ensure that all the bottlenecks that have bedeviled good governance are sorted out for Nigeria to take its rightful place in the comity of nations. “That has encouraged some of us to ensure that we partake in this project to support the President to ensure that his vision is being supported by the parliament, so that he wouldn’t have any problem in ensuring full implementation of the well-designed programmes he has for this country. “Secondly, we have seen the commitment and loyalty of the calibre of senators now at the Red Chamber. It has never added tremendous amount of hope that Nigeria has come to be, to have people who are committed, who are selfless, who are patriotic to support the president in ensuring that this country is taken to the next level. “That is the second encouragement that made me to throw my hat to the ring to partake in this exercise. I believe that as a committed man, if some of us had started the way Buhari is leading the country, a long way before now, I believe this country would have attained a level many Nigerians would be proud of”.