Following the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen from Office on Friday by President Muhammadu Buhari, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has summoned an emergency meeting for tomorrow, Monday, January 28, to enable the bar take a decision on the action of the presidency that has attracted wide condemnation from Nigerians. The notice of the meeting signed by Jonathan Gunu Taidi showed that the only agenda for the meeting is the issue of the suspension of the Chief Justice, which the NBA had already condemned, demanding a reversal of the action. President Buhari had suspended Justice Onnoghen acting on an order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal, where the CJN is standing trial on issues bordering on non-declaration of assets. The CJN was replaced in acting capacity by Justice Tanko Mohammed the next in rank to Justice Onnoghen, who has since been sworn-in by the President. The NBA in a statement by its president, Mr Paul Usoro SAN, on Friday described the suspension of Justice Onnoghen as a “coup against judiciary” The NBA said, “We call on the Federal Government to avert the looming constitutional crisis precipitated by its ill-advised action. In particular, the Nigerian Bar Association demands the reversal of the purported suspension of Justice Walter S C onnoghen, GCON. “We also call on the National Assembly to assert its constitutional authority and powers and prevent this slide into chaos and erosion of the rule of law.” EU, U.S. UK Deeply Concerned The European Union has expressed deep concerns over the process and timing of the suspension of Justice Walter Onnoghen as Chief Justice of Nigeria. The European Union Election Observation Mission on the Nigeria 2019 General Elections in a statement on Saturday by Press and Public Outreach Officer, Sarah Fradgley said the suspension raises the question of “whether due process was followed”. The statement by the United States of America reads, “The Embassy of the United States is deeply concerned by the impact of the executive branch’s decision to suspend and replace the Chief Justice and head of the judicial branch without the support of the legislative branch on the eve of national and state elections. “We note widespread Nigerian criticism that this decision is unconstitutional and that it undermines the independence of the judicial branch. That undercuts the stated determination of government, candidates, and political party leaders to ensure that the elections proceed in a way that is free, fair, transparent, and peaceful – leading to a credible result. “We urge that the issues raised by this decision be resolved swiftly and peacefully in accordance with due process, full respect for the rule of law, and the spirit of the Constitution of Nigeria. Such action is needed urgently now to ensure that this decision does not cast a pall over the electoral process.” UK Faults Timing Also, the British high commission says the removal of Walter Onnoghen as chief justice of Nigeria (CJN) gives cause for concern. In a statement on Saturday, the commission acknowledged the sovereignty of Nigeria but said the action could affect perceptions about the elections. It said the international community is monitoring developments in the country closely, urging stakeholders to work towards achieving free and fair elections. “The British High Commission expresses serious concern over the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria. We have heard a wide range of credible and independent voices, including in the Nigerian legal profession and civil society, who have expressed concern over the constitutionality of the executive branch’s suspension of the chief officer of the judiciary. “We respect Nigeria’s sovereign authority and its right to adjudicate on constitutional provisions but as friends of the Nigerian people, we are compelled to observe that the timing of this action, so close to national elections, gives cause for concern. It risks affecting both domestic and international perceptions on the credibility of the forthcoming elections,” the statement read. Meanwhile a group of Civil society organisations on Saturday in Abuja  staged a protest asking the United States and the United Kingdom to prosecute President Muhammadu Buhari at International Criminal Court  ( ICC ) over illegal removal of the Chief Justice Onnoghen. The protesters also asked  the two countries to activate their warning by placing visa restrictions and  prosecute those who participated in the illegal and unconstitutional suspension of the CJN . The protest which took place in front of the US Embassy, attracted the presence of several activists and youth groups, who described the purported removal of the CJN by president Buhari as a threat to democracy and an obvious interference in the 2019 general elections. Speaking on behalf of the group,  Ariyo-Dare Atoye, Convener, Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution said that the assault on the CJN is a ploy to influence the outcome of the 2019 General elections. He noted that the action is an onslaught against the judiciary Buhari, Like Hitler Has Set Nigeria On Fire – Dogara The suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Samuel Onnoghen by President Muhammadu Buhari has thrown Nigeria back into the era of 1933 Hitler’s Germany in the wake of the Reichstag fire, House of Representatives Speaker, Yakubu Dogara has said. Dogara, in a statement he personally signed and made available to journalists by his media aide, Turaki Hassan on Saturday, also described president Buhari’s deployment of executive powers as “reckless”. The speaker in voicing out his anger and dismay over the development noted that nothing, and no section whatsoever in the 1999 constitution as amended gives the president rights/powers to remove a sitting Chief Justice of Nigeria in the manner that he did. The statement reads in part: “As of today, Nigeria is now Germany in the wake of the 1933 Reichstag fire. Our democracy is on fire; ignited by the very people who swore to protect and defend it. That this fire must not convert the Chancellor to Fuhrer as it happened in Germany in 1933 depends on our collective response and that of the international community. We must not bow our knees to dictatorship: not now, not ever again. “With the unconstitutional suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) by President Muhammadu Buhari, the world has been served with notice that Nigeria is now a full-blown dictatorship. This did not come as a rude shock except to those that have been blind to the gradual but progressive erosion of democratic values in the polity as President Buhari’s Government has never hidden its disdain for the rule of law”. “We have watched in disbelief as the government recklessly deploys institutional prerogatives; routinely flouts the rule of law; subverts and assaults democratic Institutions; refuses to accept opponents as legitimate; suppresses citizens civil liberties(especially those of opponents) and trample underfoot the media. In short, the Government’s tyrannical and authoritarian credentials are loathsomely legendary.” It Is An Attack On Nigeria Constitution – Agbakoba, Activist Condemnation of the action of the president has refused to die down with a former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Dr Olisa Agbakoba SAN, lending his voice to the condemnation of the suspension of Justice Onnoghen. Agbakoba described the suspension of the Justice Walter Onnoghen, as an attack on the constitution. In a statement made available to newsmen in Lagos on Saturday, Agbakoba said that all actions ought to be stayed, pending the determination of several cases and appeals filed on the issue before various courts, which ordered maintenance of status quo. He said that the suspension contravenes the ruling of CCT on the matter. “The CCT itself, adjourned proceedings in respect of Justice Onnoghen’s matter in order to determine if it has jurisdiction to try Justice Onnoghen; the suspension contravenes the ruling. “There are at least six pending cases in superior courts of Nigeria and one in the Court of Appeal. “All these cases ruled that Justice Onnoghen should remain in office pending when all cases against him are resolved. “In any case Section 292 of the 1999 Constitution sets out the procedure for removing or suspending the Chief Justice of Nigeria. “The power to suspend or remove the Chief Justice of Nigeria vests in the Senate side of the National Assembly,” he said. Agbakoba called for reversal  of the  suspension. Also, a rights campaigner, Chief Malcom Omirhobo, told NAN that the suspension violated constitutional provisions. Omirhobo said that the suspension of Onnoghen and appointment of Mohammed as Acting CJN did not follow due process of law. It Is Illegal – Falana In his own contribution, Lagos lawyer, Mr Femi Falana SAN, said “I have had cause to call on the Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami SAN to withdraw the charge of false declaration of assets filed against the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen  at the Code of Conduct Tribunal. The call was without prejudice to the merit of the serious allegations leveled against the Chief Justice.  In line with decided judicial authorities, I had wanted the National Judicial Council to investigate the allegations. Unfortunately, the 88th statutory meeting of the National Judicial Council scheduled to hold on January 15, 2019 which could have deliberated on the matter and take an informed position was postponed indefinitely on the directive of the embattled Chief Justice. “As the battle shifted to the courts, both the Judiciary and the Executive were shopping for court orders from the Federal High Court, the National Industrial Court, the Code of Conduct Tribunal and the Court of Appeal. In the process, settled principles of law were sacrificed for the exigency of the moment.  Thus, at the 15th annual Gani Fawehinmi lecture, which held in Lagos on January 15, 2019, I was compelled to warn against the dangerous trend. Regrettably, the warning fell on deaf ears. Curiously, in an act of brazen impunity, the executive procured an ex parte order from the Code of Conduct Tribunal for the immediate suspension of the Chief Justice from office. In his purported compliance with the ex parte order, President Mohammadu Buhari has announced the suspension of Justice Onnoghen as the Chief Justice and appointed Justice Tanko Mohammad as the Acting Chief Justice. “It is unfortunate that the bar and the bench have played into the hands of the sponsors of incipient fascism in the country. For reasons best known to them, the stakeholders in the legal profession stood by and allowed the Office of the Chief Justice to be completely desecrated. It is intriguing that the 12 lawyers including three Senior Advocates of Nigeria in the federal cabinet did not deem it fit to dissuade President Buhari from carrying out the illegal suspension of the Chief Justice on the basis of an ex parte order issued by the Code of Conduct Tribunal. In particular, they ought to have reminded the President of the compulsory retirement of Justice Stanley Nnaji and Justice Wilson Egbo-Egbo for issuing illegal ex parte orders for the removal of Dr. Chris Ngige as Governor of Anambra State. It is sad to recall that it was the federal government superintended by former President Olusegun Obasanjo that instigated the illegal removal of the governor at the material time. “However, notwithstanding the inauguration of Justice Tanko Mohammad as the Acting Chief Justice the legal profession should not hesitate to review the entire Onnoghen saga in the interest of the nation’s judiciary. In Elelu-Habeeb (2012) 1 WRN  the Supreme Court held that by virtue of section 292 of the Constitution the heads of the judicial arms of the state and federal governments in the country cannot be removed without a prior investigation conducted by the NJC. Consequently, the Apex Court set aside the purported removal of the appellant as the Chief judge of Kwara State upon an address forwarded to the House of Assembly by former Governor Bukola Saraki. Therefore, the National Judicial Council should convene and constitute a committee to investigate the allegations leveled against the Chief Justice and make appropriate recommendation to the relevant authorities. “Meanwhile, the legal team of the Chief Justice should proceed to challenge his suspension from office either at the Code of Conduct Tribunal or the Court of Appeal. Despite the gravity of the allegations leveled against the Chief Justice the illegality of the suspension should not be allowed to stand. The ex parte order is a suspect document as the motion ex parte on which it was predicated was allegedly filed on January 9, 2019 while the substantive charge against the Chief Justice was filed at the registry of the Code of Conduct Tribunal on January 11, 2019. Furthermore, the counsel who argued the motion is not indicated in the ex parte order. However, in view of President Buhari’s belated fidelity in the rule of law the federal government should comply with all valid and subsisting orders of competent municipal and regional courts made against the federal government.” Wike Decries Action, Calls For Mass Action Nigerians have been urged to embark on any legal mass action that would compel the federal government to rescind on the decision of sacking the chief justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Walter Nkanu Onnoghen. Giving the charge on Saturday, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike declared that the removal of the Chief Justice Of Nigeria (CJN) was the conclusion of the APC-led Federal Government’s  hijack of the judiciary. Wike stated that if Nigerians allow this criminal action to  succeed, then they should embrace the death of an independent judiciary. Speaking during a courtesy visit by representatives of the National Executive Committee of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) Nigeria on Saturday at the Government House Port Harcourt, Governor Wike said there must be a sustained national resistance to reverse Buhari’s act of impunity. “The suspension of the CJN is unfortunate.  I raised an alarm when the Federal Government tested the waters by going to abduct judges in the midnight.  I knew what the Federal Government intended to achieve.  The whole essence was to put the judiciary in their pocket. “The then NBA leadership played into their hands . They allowed politics and religion to becloud their sense of patriotism. It is not the removal of the CJN that is the issue. There is no more judiciary.  No judge will henceforth deliver contrary judgment based on law against the Federal Government “. He said that the challenge  before of all Nigerians is to rise up in practical  defence of the nation’s democracy and judiciary. Buhari’s Action Harmful To Nigeria’s Stability – Dickson Mr. Seriake Dickson, Chairman, South-South Governors’ Forum and Governor of Bayelsa State, has protested the sack of the Chief Justice of the Federation, Justice Walter Onnoghen, by President Muhammadu Buhari. He described the removal of Onnoghen as a sad commentary on democracy in Nigeria, stressing that January 25 would remain a sad day in the country’s political history. Dickson stated that Buhari, by his action, had lent credence to the alleged remark of the US President Donald Trump that Nigeria was heading in the direction of a shit-hole  country, if critical institutions of state did not get it right. Suspension Of Onnoghen Is A Coup Against Democracy – IYC The Ijaw Youth Council, IYC, has stated that the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen by President Buhari and the immediate swearing in of Justice Tanko Muhammed as the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria is a coup against democracy and the rule of law. Eric Omare, President, IYC, in a statement said it is desperation taken too far and the IYC in the strongest terms condemn this display of impunity by President Buhari. He said Nigeria is under a constitutional democracy that is governed by the rule of law and the action by President Buhari lacks foundation in law. It Is Sad – Aborisade, Others Mr Femi Aborisade, human rights activist and lawyer, Wale Adeoye, executive director, Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER) and Wale Ogunade, Lawyer have described the suspension of Onnoghen as sad and the beginning of totalitarian regime in the country. Aborisade said, “we have never had it so bad. The President lacks the power to suspend, he needs the faction of the senate to do this, he does not have the power at all, it is unconstitutional. “The way forward is for Nigeria people to know that we have no democracy and that we need to rise up to build a truly democratic political party based mainly on the welfare of the ordinary people, not to look up to either the APC or the PDP. We need to build alternative political party or parties in the final analysis.”  Action Thrown Nigeria Into Constitutional Crisis – Uwazurike President Muhamadu Buhari, in suspending the Chief Justice of Nigeria, has thrown the country into a constitutional crisis, says Goddy Uwazurike, a lawyer. According to him, “President Buhari  placed his hand on the Holy Koran and swore to uphold the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. That was on May 29, 2015. Since then, he spent 3 years seeking to sack the President of the Senate. He is using this last year to sack the chief justice of Nigeria. This is nothing but throwing the country into a crisis. “What happened in Aso Rock is nothing short of creating a judicial anarchy. Rotimi Amaechi, as governor of Rivers State caused such a disaster for the judicial arm in the state. Today, President Muhamadu Buhari, who as a military dictator removed the then Chief Justice Sowemimo, has embarrassed the 3rd arm of the government. Remember that under our constitution, the methods by which the heads of the three arms emerge are clearly stated. Ditto the way their stay can be tampered with. Any other method is clearly unconstitutional.”