Temidayo Akinsuyi, Innocent Oweh Lagos / Abuja – In what might appear to be a new political strategy, Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun, on Sunday took the APM governorship candidate in his state, Adekunle Akinlade, to pay homage to President Muhammadu Buhari. Both visitors were received at the private residence of the president about noon. Amosun seized the opportunity to pledge that his state, Ogun, would vote massively for the president in the forthcoming presidential polls. According to the governor, who is almost rounding off his second term, Buhari had nothing to bother about as his impact in infrastructure and social welfare programmes was all that mattered to guarantee him another term. Prior to the Christmas festivities, Amosun had also led Akinlade to the president during which time they intimated him that the party had adopted him as their presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections. The governor said: “We came to formally say happy New Year to Mr. President and to reassure him of our unalloyed support, to also tell him that in the coming elections in the contest of South West, Ogun State will not be left behind. “We are going to give him massive votes that have never been seen in the history of Ogun State. That is what we are here to reassure him of and of course you see the candidate of APM with me; yes, this is not the first time we are coming to say hello to Mr. President, but this is a new year and we just think it would be appropriate, particularly, we all know we are working hand in hand with Mr. President to make sure that he wins the state. “As I said the last time, that we are not God but I know that Mr. President has already won the coming election because his work speaks for him. Mr. President doesn’t need to still run around, his work is everywhere. “Infrastructures are now in place and gradually Mr. President is bringing back the middle class. With the revolution, he is bringing to bear in agriculture, all the social safety nets that he is bringing on board, N-Power, GEEP, market money and many others. “People that ordinarily have been running around begging for money are now employers of labour themselves and that is the way to go if we must get it right as a nation. “So, in all fronts Mr. President has done well; he will still do well and is poised to do more for Nigeria. “He came in with what I call a three-pronged promise and he has worked his talk despite all odds.” On his part, Akinlade said his perception of the president was that of a father figure, one that was sincere and down to earth. “He is a very wonderful person and someone that I have deep respect for and, as a father of the nation, I must say very clearly that I am impressed with what I saw, very down to earth human being,” he stated. Recall that Amosun switched support for the APM candidate after he and his Imo State counterpart, Rochas Okorocha, fell out with the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, during the recent primary elections held to produce candidates for the party. But in a reaction to the visit, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said Buhari was not averse to any candidate coming from the opposition but that the underlining interest was to garner as many votes as possible for the president. He said Buhari would campaign for All APC candidates, irrespective of playing host to the APM candidate. Amaechi Says Buhari Lacks Capacity To Govern In Leaked Tapes Meanwhile, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari lacks the capacity to transform the country as promised, saying that is why everybody is complaining about the economy. He also expressed lack of confidence in President Buhari changing the country for the better. He said these in audio tapes released by Reno Omokri on his tweeter handle, @renoomokri, on Sunday. Reno Omokri is an author, lawyer and an ex-President Goodluck Jonathan’s aide on new media. The clips were made out of an informal interaction Amaechi had with journalists covering his ministry. Daily Independent could not independently verify the audio tapes. One of the transcripts reads, “These are not things you publish ooo. If you publish them, you will never sit with me any day. “Three years of Buhari oo, everybody is crying, crying…pressmen are crying, farmers are crying, workers are crying, politicians are crying, students are crying, three years oo! “The rate of poverty is very high. The people are hungry. Nigeria will divide!” In another transcript he said, “This country can never change, I swear. The only way this country can change is if everybody is killed. This country is going nowhere, I swear. “Even if you divide the country into 10, it will still not change. I’m not joking o. When Magnus (Abe) was my SSG, I told him that this country is hopeless and helpless. “He said ‘Oga, stop it now. Coming from a governor, don’t be saying that’. But two months in Abuja, Magnus said this country is hopeless and helpless. I said why? He said, ‘you are right, the only thing they do in Abuja is share money, they don’t work.’” In the last tape, Amaechi was heard saying, “The president does not listen to anybody. He doesn’t care. You can write what you want to write. The president doesn’t care. Does he read? He will read, he will laugh. He will say ‘come, come and see, they are abusing me here’. “In fact, there was one case of somebody in Onitsha, a trader in Onitsha who couldn’t sell his goats during Sallah. And I was with Oga on the plane and the man was busy abusing Buhari. He said, ‘Amaechi, come, what is my business with Onitsha goat seller?’”