ABEOKUTA – The Federal Government has commissioned a flood and erosion control project in Ago-Iwoye, Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State, with a call on residents of the community to desist from indiscriminate dumping of refuse in drainage to prevent flooding in the future. Speaking at the commissioning, Barr. Adebayo Shittu, the Minister for Communication, disclosed that it was one of the 11 ecological interventions approved by President Muhammadu Buhari, for the third quarter of 2017, to check flooding and erosion in the community and its environs. Shittu noted that the project executed through the Ecological Fund Office, Abuja, was a testimony to the present administration’s promise, that no part of the country would suffer neglect, as a result of its geographical location or political consideration, expressing optimism that the project would reduce dangers associated with flooding experienced by the community in the past. He noted that the project was expected to check flooding and erosion menace, which has been an age- long problem in the community, positing that the Federal Government intervention has succeeded in bringing a huge relief to members of the community. Shittu stated that at this critical moment of our nation building and economic recovery, the Project would definitely provide a window of opportunities for economic growth of the community. He seized the opportunity to implore the community to cherish the project and prevent indiscriminate dumping of refuse into the drainage channels. He encouraged the communities to ‘own and maintain’ the project and ensure its sustainability. “I will like to implore the community to cherish this project by preventing indiscriminate dumping of refuse in the drainage channels. It is the responsibility of the community to own and maintain the project to ensure its sustainability,” he said. Mr. Bolaji Oyeleye, the state Commissioner for Environment, who represented Governor Ibikunle Amosun at the event appealed to the Federal Government for similar intervention at Owa Kurudu in Ijebu-Ode and other gully erosion sites across the state, pleading for speedy completion of the second phase of the project. Responding on behalf of the community, the Mefo of Igan, Ago-Iwoye, Otunba Samson Rufai, appreciated the federal and the state governments for the intervention, saying that the project would go a long way in addressing the erosion challenge facing the community.