Lagos – There is no doubt that the Financial System Strategy 2020 goal set by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) towards 80 per cent financial inclusion by 2020 can only be possible by a careful execution and collaboration by every stakeholder. Financial inclusion means that irrespective of income level, all individuals, households and businesses have access to financial services and products that address their needs. Given that a significant number of Nigerians are low-income earners and are also financially excluded, it is paramount that inclusion be driven, since it has been established that a high exclusion rate is prevalent in the country.  Increased access promotes capital accumulation, credit creation, increased economic activity, and increased investment. Nigeria in 2012, launched an ambitious National Financial Inclusion Strategy and adopted to achieve 20 percent exclusion rate by 2020. Though progress has been made, the latest survey on the access to Financial Services by EFInA indicates that about 36.8 percent of eligible Nigerian adults are still excluded from Financial Services. Giving our estimated population at 200 million, CBN will be targeting about 74 million bank customers in the next two year if it is to achieve the 20 percent exclusion objective next year. With the revised National Financial Inclusion Strategy unveiled recently, CBN estimates 500,000 mobile money/bank agents to be available to serve about 105 million adult Nigerians by the year 2020. The figure translates to about 476 agents per 100,000 adults, the CBN said in the new document which rolls out steps on how the country would get 80 percent of its adult population become financially included by the end of next year. “Whilst the improvement is encouraging, there is still considerable work to be done to achieve the overall 20% target exclusion rate by 2020. ”And the Revised National Financial Inclusion Strategy rightly identifies Consumer Protection and its constituent pillar of Consumer Education as critical to the attainment of its objectives,” Aishah Ahmad who is the Deputy governor in charge of the, Financial System Stability, FSS, Directorate at the CBN said at the launch of the new strategy. CBN had targeted 62 agents per 100,000 adults in the 2012 strategy. But it had reviewed figure upwards in the new document considering the global shift from physical bank branches to branchless banking. “The justification for this new figure is based on recent developments in the financial sector aimed at taking financial services to the unserved and under-served using branchless platforms such as agent banking and digital platforms,” the CBN said in the new document. To derive the financial inclusion targets, the CBN also expects the payment, savings, credit, insurance and pension components of the financial services system to reach 70%, 60%, 40%, 40%, and 40% of the adult population respectively. Similarly, CBN expects bank branches, Micro Finance Bank branches, ATMs, as well as POS to increase to 7.6; 5; 203.6; and 850 to be able to serve every 100,000 adult Nigerians by next year. CBN hinges its expectation on five priority areas that are crucial to increasing financial inclusion in Nigeria including creating an enabling environment for the expansion of DFS, enabling the rapid growth of agent networks with nationwide reach, harmonizing Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements for opening accounts/mobile wallets on all financial services platforms. The other drivers would be to create an enabling environment to serve the most excluded as well as to improve the adoption of cashless payment channels, particularly in government-to-person and person-to-government payments. Some lenders, including FirstBank, GTBank, Access, UBA, among others have made significant impressions on the financial inclusion drive by ensuring that their services get to the hinterland of the country with the agent banking model. However, some analysts said at the weekend that given the challenging year for the banks, as CBN plans to introduce fresh capital rules in the second quarter, it is going to be a tall order “The new capital requirement known as “BASEL III” seeks to more specifically define what constitutes the various regulatory capital classes and enhance liquidity requirements, strengthen corporate governance and improve risk disclosure and lastly to improve transparency and disclosure with regulations that build upon the BASEL II accords which all Nigerian banks are currently in compliance with. We remember that the apex bank migrated banks to a new accounting standard known as IFRS 9 in January 2018 to improve disclosure by forcing lenders to provide for existing losses as well as those that might occur. The transition led to most commercial banks shedding as much as 200bps off their equities and some tier II banks are still finding it difficult to raise their capital adequacy requirements above the regulatory benchmark and also led to at least one takeover deal – Diamond Bank Plc by Access Bank Plc. We believe that this new requirement could lead to further mergers and acquisitions in the medium term, say analysts at Investment Management & Research.