Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed that his administration would get to the logical conclusion of all cases bordering on corruption. He made the vow at the palace of the Obong of Calabar, Cross River state, Edidem Ekpo Abasi Otu V, on Wednesday, in furtherance of the All Progressives Congress presidential campaign in the state. According to the President, his administration would leverage on reforms in the police and the judiciary in order to speed up efforts in the prosecution of all corruption cases. While re-echoing his administration’s policy since 2015, he said: “On bribery and corruption, it’s very difficult under this system but we are doing our best. “We are trying to get the police and the judiciary to act very quickly on the presentations made in the people who abuse trust, and we are not going to let go. “As long as we are here, your Majesty, all those who abuse trust will be taken before the law and we’ll make sure they are finished.” The president, who said he was in the place to seek royal support and understanding, assured that he was president for the whole country. “I thank you very much. I extend my request of understanding and support. I assure you, I am working for the whole country,” he said. Buhari expressed delight that the royal father had been briefed about the efforts made by his administration, especially in the area of providing strategic infrastructure. He said it was the intention of the administration to open up the whole country. He added: “I’m very pleased you have been briefed about what effort this administration has been doing in terms of strategic infrastructure so that the whole country will be opened up. “I assure your Majesty that this administration is determined to do its best. “Last time I came around seeking the same understanding and support, we were making promises on three fundamental issues that every Nigerian is acutely aware of. “Firstly, the security of the country itself, then the economy in terms of employment for all able bodied persons, and then of course fighting corruption. “We have made progress in all aspects and Nigerians that bother to make research or to watch news or to listen to news know that this administration has lived up to its words. “The people in the North-East are the biggest witnesses of our performance, security wise. “And on the economic front, I think the ordinary workers and farmers are witnesses, because we instructed the Ministry of Agriculture and Youth Development and the governor of the Central Bank to make sure that they have extended loans to farmers and the feedback we are getting is very encouraging. “God, in His infinite mercy, blessed the last three raining seasons. We have good raining seasons and a lot of state governors, including your own, have factored into our agriculture campaign. “We are successful in that, that we have stopped the importation of rice up to 90 percent. That money we are saving is the one we will put into infrastructure. “So, for the economy, we are not doing too badly. Young able bodied persons that were very idle before now have gone back to land and nobody is regretting it.” Earlier in his address, the Obong of Calabar said the people of his kingdom had heard of the good works done by the president, saying that the people had been itching to come close to him to discuss with him. While thanking the president, he added: “I have to bless you naturally for the upcoming election and we hope by God’s making you will come into the second term when people have voted because we are all proud of you. “We’ve had so many experiences and we can mention them. Please, continue right because we were locked in this coastal area. We’ve been clamouring for years to have this Calabar-Ogoja-Katsina-ala opened to the North-East. It never happened. “But today I’m told and one of these days, I’ll drive out to go and see that road, the construction of it being started.” EFCC Files Corruption Charges Against Babachir Lawal, Ayo Oke, Wife The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has filed corruption charges against Babachir Lawal, former Secretary to the Government of the Federation; Ayodele Oke, former Director-General of Nigeria Intelligence Agency (NIA) and his wife, Folashade Oke. The EFCC filed 10-count charge against Lawal at an Abuja High Court. Charged alongside Lawal were Hamidu David Lawal; Sulaiman Abubakar; Apeh Monday; Rholavision Engineering Limited, a company owned by him, and Josmon Technologies Limited. The anti-graft agency filed four counts against Oke and his wife, Folashade, before the Federal High Court, in Lagos. They were charged over a huge sum of money found in an apartment in Ikoyi, Lagos. Oke and his wife will be arraigned in court tomorrow, while Lawal will be in court next week. Lawal was removed from office after he was indicted by a Senate committee which investigated the management of money meant to assist persons displaced by Boko Haram. He was indicted for allegedly using his companies to get contracts worth millions of naira without executing the contracts. Last week, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo announced that Buhari had directed that charges be filed against Lawal and Oke.