Prince Nicholas Ukachukwu is the candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance ( APGA) in Anambra- South senatorial district of Anambra state. He spoke to a group of Journalists in Orsumenyi, Nnewi South Local government area of Anambra state at the weekend. CHARLES ONYEKAMUO was there. Excerpts: You certainly have formidable opponents in this election, how confident are you to surmount the challenges? In political world, antecedent is a very big advantage. And apart from antecedents, there is another thing that is very important also, and, it not whose son you are, but, who are you? Again, this attribute you normally hear, “Tested, and, Trusted” is not an attribute for a neophyte. It is not an attribute you give to somebody who has not been tested and has not earned trust, that is people’s confidence. You just came to my house from Awka. The road you plied just before you entered this my house is not tarred by the Anambra state government. So, can any of those peoples who are running against me today boast of having done such a thing? Go to any of my opponents, you can’t see any asphalted road leading to their homes. Yes, some did interlocking stone, but, that is only within their compounds or promises of their buildings. And that is the highest achievements they have done in their areas. But all the major roads and streets in my town are today tarred, asphalted, not surface dressing or interlocking. Ordinarily, I wouldn’t be talking about all these things. To be precise, the APC candidate, Senator Andy Uba is the incumbent senator representing your district ,and, he is vying to return. What edge do you think you have over him considering that the incumbency factor will play to his advantage. My approach to this campaign is not taking up individuals to criticize them. But, to answer your question, I must say that Andy is my brother, he is my friend, and I helped him in one way or the other to be where he is today politically. Having said this, I want to state that Andy has been in the Senate now for two tenures, so, I think that he should be humble enough to allow other people to occupy the seat. Besides , when he was running for the senate last time we had an understanding that I will also go to the senate, and, that he will support me. What is your motivation in seeking to go to the Senate? Well, I have realised that you can do more to your people using government platform, through representation of your people in government. I have also realized that Igbos need voices that have built bridges across the various ethnic, and, or geo- political zones in the country for us as Igbos to get our due share from the federal government. It is not about building roads, hospitals and other facilities for our people, it goes beyond that. You must be part and parcel of this country called Nigeria, you must be part of the equation. But as it is now, Igbos are in the periphery. You can hear now what people are saying that after Buhari, the presidency will again go to the South-West, and , I am sure that when the South-West finishes, they will hand- over to the North again, so, where is the Igbos in this whole game?