Iraq said on Sunday it would summon Turkey’s ambassador to protest over the death of a Kurdish demonstrator fired on by Turkish troops. Ten other people were injured when the troops opened fire on protesters who stormed a Turkish military camp in Iraq’s northern Kurdish region on Saturday and set fire to two tanks and several other vehicles according to The National World. The protest was sparked by a recent Turkish air raid in the area that killed four civilians. The Iraqi foreign ministry condemned the incident and expressed deep regret for the victims. “The Foreign Ministry will summon the Turkish ambassador to hand a protest note about the incident and demand that it will not be repeated,” the ministry said in a statement. “Iraq firmly condemns any transgression on the security and sovereignty of Iraq or the use of its territory to attack the security and safety of any neighbouring country,” it said. Turkey has stationed troops in northern Iraq and often carries out air strikes against the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), a Turkish group that has waged a decades-long insurgency and is considered terror group by Ankara, the United States and the European Union. Turkish troops also have a camp in Bashiqa, north-east of Mosul, which was set up in 2015 to fight ISIS and has caused diplomatic tension between Baghdad and Ankara. Saturday’s incident prompted several Iraqi politicians to call for the removal of foreign troops from the country. “What happened is a violation of Iraq’s independence. The Iraqi government is responsible for defending the lives of those living within its borders, we call for foreign troops to be expelled from the country,” an Iraqi MP told The National. Ankara said the attack was carried out by members of the PKK who disguised themselves as civilians to fuel conflict between Turkish troops and locals. “An attack has occurred on one of bases located in northern Iraq as a result of provocation by the PKK terrorist organisation. There was partial damage to vehicles and equipment during the attack,” Turkey’s Defence Ministry said on Twitter. The ministry said “necessary precautions” were being taken over the incident. The PKK, which launched its insurgency in 1984, has a base in the Qandil mountain area of Iraq’s Kurdish region. Kurdistan’s government denounced the attack and said it would open an investigation. It said it was “saddened” by the casualties and material damage at Shiladze but only referred to an “incident” without mentioning Turkey or the protest.