Lagos – The competition of looking good at all times among mothers is getting tougher by the day. So much that it has started affecting the health of new born babies because mothers now worry more about how their breast would look after nursing their babies rather than the health of their child. This quest of looking good and maintaining a great figure after child birth cannot be blamed on the women alone. The men share in this blame because these new fathers do not expect drastic change in the body of their women. On fabmum instagram handle few months back, a man, name withheld, asked what could be done to help his wife’s breast to become firm and return to its former shape before giving birth and nursing their new baby. He got many suggestions like, let your wife wear a push up bra; massage with olive oil; wear bra while sleeping and so on. There were so many suggestions but one man asked the man to appreciate his wife’s body after they must have tried all suggestions and failed because that body brought a human being into this world and there is no way such body would not change. And this is the topic of discussion. Research has shown that breast-feeding doesn’t negatively affect breast shape or volume. According to a report online, during pregnancy, the ligaments that support your breasts might stretch as your breasts get fuller and heavier. This stretching might contribute to sagging breasts after pregnancy whether or not you breast-feed your baby. Sagging breasts might be more noticeable with each subsequent pregnancy. Also, there are issues like aging to consider. Once a woman gets to a certain age, whether she breastfed any baby or not; whether she was ever pregnant throughout her lifetime or not, like a biology teacher in my secondary school would say “the angle of depression must set in” and as high life musician flavor said in his first hit song, “At the right time, that standing breast will still fall.” The only exception is when someone is blessed with firm skin and a certain kind of body shape. Other factors also contribute to sagging breasts, including aging and smoking both of which reduce skin elasticity. Being overweight, and losing a significant amount of weight and having large breasts can have a similar effect. Don’t let a fear of sagging breasts stop you from breast-feeding. To help maintain the appearance of your breasts at any stage of life, make healthy lifestyle choices. Include regular physical activity in your daily routine and maintain a healthy weight. Eat a healthy diet. If you smoke, ask your doctor to help you quit. If after reading all these and your physical beauty still worries you more than your baby’s health, you might want to consider the following benefits you and your baby may be missing just because you want to look good in front of people. The Benefits Of Breastfeeding For Your Baby: Breast milk provides the ideal nutrition for infants. It has a nearly perfect mix of vitamins, protein, and fat — everything your baby needs to grow. And it’s all provided in a form more easily digested than infant formula. Breast milk contains antibodies that help your baby fight off viruses and bacteria. Breastfeeding lowers your baby’s risk of having asthma or allergies. Plus, babies who are breastfed exclusively for the first six months, without any formula, have fewer ear infections, respiratory illnesses, and bouts of diarrhea. They also have fewer hospitalisations and trips to the doctor. Breast Milk Provides Ideal Nutrition For Babies During the first days after birth, the breasts produce a thick and yellowish fluid called colostrum. It’s high in protein, low in sugar and loaded with beneficial compounds (5). Colostrum is the ideal first milk and helps the newborn’s immature digestive tract develop. After the first few days, the breasts start producing larger amounts of milk as the baby’s stomach grows. Breast milk is loaded with antibodies that help your baby fight off viruses and bacteria. This particularly applies to colostrum, the first milk. Colostrum provides high amounts of immunoglobulin A (IgA), as well as several other antibodies (9). When the mother is exposed to viruses or bacteria, she starts producing antibodies. These antibodies are then secreted into the breast milk and passed to the baby during feeding (10). IgA protects the baby from getting sick by forming a protective layer in the baby’s nose, throat and digestive system. For this reason, breastfeeding mothers with the flu may actually provide their babies with antibodies that help them fight the pathogen that is causing the sickness. Nonetheless, if you are ill, you should always practice strict hygiene. Wash your hands often and try to avoid infecting your baby. Breastfeeding has been linked to higher IQ scores in later childhood in some studies. What’s more, the physical closeness, skin-to-skin touching, and eye contact all help your baby bond with you and feel secure. Breastfed infants are more likely to gain the right amount of weight as they grow rather than become overweight children. The AAP says breastfeeding also plays a role in the prevention of SIDS (sudden infant death syndrome). It’s been thought to lower the risk of diabetes, obesity, and certain cancers as well, but more research is needed. Breastfeeding Benefits For The Mother Breastfeeding burns extra calories, so it can help you lose pregnancy weight faster. It releases the hormone oxytocin, which helps your uterus return to its pre-pregnancy size and may reduce uterine bleeding after birth. Breastfeeding also lowers your risk of breast and ovarian cancer. It may lower your risk of osteoporosis, too.