John Omachonu As the nation awaits government’s action on the N30, 000 new minimum wage, fears are growing to the effect that the essence of the increase is gradually being eroded due to growing prices of goods and services. The implication is that the current agitation, though necessary, according to some analysts, may end up worsening the living conditions of Nigerians even with the rising level of unemployment. A report by Renaissance Capital, titled “SSA in 2019: Risks are Tilted to the Downside”, has revealed that Nigeria and Ghana are among the countries that have seen the biggest declines due to sizeable currency depreciations, elevated inflation, and escalating unemployment. According to the report, “Our wage analysis reveals that real wages have been declining across Sub-Sahara Africa in recent years, for various reasons. We believe this largely explains the weakness of the consumer in the countries we cover. “Nigeria and Ghana are among the SSA countries that have seen the biggest declines in their real wages, in part due to significant currency depreciations and elevated inflation.” It added, “In 2019, we fear that a weaker naira in Nigeria, on the back of a lower oil price, will place upward pressure on inflation, which would be negative for real wage growth. “The consumer has been weak in several of the SSA countries we cover for a few years now. In Nigeria, consumers’ woes were aggravated when the oil price collapsed in 2015 and 2016, and consumers have struggled to emerge from their slump, even with the oil price recovery of 2017 and by October 2018.” The report is of the opinion that risks are tilted to the downside as it looked into real wages and currency valuations and concluded that consumers’ woes will persist (flat line) in West (East) Africa, and currencies will become less cheap. “We think an overvalued naira and inflationary pressures in Nigeria may compel monetary tightening, despite fragile growth,” it stated. The consumer price index, (CPI) which measures inflation, increased by 11.44% (year-on-year) in December 2018; a 0.16% increase from the 11.28% recorded in November, National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said in a report last week. This is the first time in seven months that inflation would reach such levels. The last time the index was this high was in May 2018 when it was 11.66%. Inflation has been rising steadily since July, increasing chances that the central bank (CBN) could tighten interest rates at its first meeting of 2019 this week. The price index, which peaked at 18.7 percent in January, last year, has been in double digits for three years. In November, Governor Godwin Emefiele said he expected the central bank’s tight monetary policy stance to continue in 2019, due to the inflation and exchange rate outlooks. CBN had kept benchmark rates tight at 14 percent for more than a year to curb inflation, support the naira and attract foreign investors into the debt market. Food prices, which make up the bulk of the inflation basket, rose to 13.56 percent in December, up from 13.30 percent a month earlier. With less than six months to go Emefiele, who has less than six months to go has continued to pursue the stability of the local currency and this was demonstrated with the ban placed on the importation of 41 items, and the introduction of Investors’ and Exporters’ (I&E) FX window. Maintenance of tight monetary policy stance and current punitive cash reserve (CRR) at official rate of 22.5% with effective rate for the sector at 30 percent, all aimed at ensuring exchange rate stability as well control naira liquidity. Despite these, analysts expect the convergence of the naira/dollar exchange rate in the three main markets (the interbank, the I&E and the black market) to roughly N360/$, as  most banks have since adopted this rate to value their foreign-currency balance sheets, according to analysts at the Renaissance Capital (Rencap). Despite the relative of the exchange rate, Nigeria currently has multiple Naira to Dollar exchange rates, including official, currently at N306.85/$, Bureau Du Change, Budget, fuel imports, Travelex, among others, for transactions in its economy, a signal of the dysfunctional Foreign Exchange (FX) market that has led to instability in the market. According to the Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema, foreign investors pulled out N605.54 billion from the Nigerian equities market in 2018 because of a shift to higher yielding assets with lower risks in developed countries, coupled with the perceived political risks in the forthcoming general elections. The stock market fell by 17.8 per cent in 2018 after recording a growth of 42.3 per cent in 2017. Giving a recap of the stock market performance in 2018 and outlook for 2019 last week, Onyema said the outflows last year was 50.53 per cent higher than the N402.26 billion repatriated by foreign investors the preceding year. However, he said most of the foreign investors would still return considering the fact that the Nigerian market has potential to deliver high returns. Specifically, he said the market, will be determined by sentiments based on market oil prices and the forthcoming elections, adding that he expects early action on the budget to have positive impact on consumer spending. “Domestically, we believe market sentiments in the first half (H1) of the year will be driven by uncertainty in the oil prices, as well as the 2019 general elections. Accordingly, we anticipate volatility in equities market in H1 in 2019 with enhanced stability post-elections. We believe swift approval and implementation of the 2019 budget may have a positive impact on the companies’ earnings as well as consumer spending,” he said. Some analysts believe that availability of credit facilities would have direct impact on economic growth, which will ultimately increase consumer spending. “A lot of consumer spending is based on credit given by banks. It is logical that if Nigeria is going to increase its growth prospects, CBN should encourage the banks more to give credit to Nigerians,” says Friday Ameh, Lagos based analyst. According to him, more credit flow to consumers and small businesses will spur economic activities. “A consumer that has an average job, will spend more if he can access credit and this will enhance economic activities and the producers would have to increase production to meet the demand and ultimately lead to employment generation,” he said. However, analysts at Rencap said that “Credit growth likely to remain weak. The last time the Nigerian banking sector recorded meaningful real growth was in 2013, when loans grew by 25% YoY. Since then, credit growth has largely been driven by the translation impact of a weaker naira exchange rate on the foreign-currency loan book. We expect credit growth to remain tepid in 2019 (sub-10%), given the weak macroeconomic environment and political uncertainties. Based on feedback from the banks, growth will be driven by traditional sectors (such as manufacturing, general commerce and oil & gas). Nonetheless, we highlight below the key risks to our loan growth expectations:  Potential changes in the political environment imply that most banks will place a lid on credit extension, pending further clarity on economic policy and direction, at least in 1H19. Credit growth will also be affected by the tight monetary policy environment. We expect the higher interest rate environment to lead to the upward repricing of lending rates.” To make matters worse, some analyst are predicting sluggish loan growth this year, a development that will further affect consumers’ ability to be involved in economic activities. Analysts at RMB Nigeria Stockbrokers anticipate a five per cent year-on-year loan growth in 2019, and 11 per cent by the end of 2020, in a report that focused on six Nigerian banks. The banks covered were Access Bank, FBN Holdings, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, Stanbic IBTC, United Bank of Africa and Zenith Bank Plc. “We initiate coverage on Nigerian banks with a cautious short-term outlook from a loan book growth perspective. We believe loan growth will be sluggish in 2019 ending, at five per cent year-on-year for our coverage universe. “We do however, expect a pick-up in lending in the second half of 2019 (post elections) and believe this could mark the beginning of double-digit risk-asset growth for Nigerian banks, following a period of subdued loan growth from macro headwinds. We forecast 11 per cent year-on-year growth in 2020 ending,” they stated. The aggregate loan book of Nigeria’s banking system is concentrated in two key sectors – services (37%) and oil and gas (23%), together accounting for 60 per cent of the sector’s loan book, though varying across banks, the report stated. It noted that the two per cent decline in credit to the private sector from deposit money banks over 2017-August 2018 (as reported by CBN) was driven mainly by the services sector which then declined by seven per cent year-on-year (2017) and three per cent (year to August 2018). Consequently   the analysts say the onus is on the government to intensify action on its avowed diversification to rev up the economic activities for credit activities. Indeed, the latest monthly Economic Report from the CBN puts non-oil exports provisionally at US$0.38bn in October, indicating a rise of 46% m/m and 69% y/y. The m/m surge was attributed to a significant increase in receipts from minerals as well as food and agricultural products. The sectoral breakdown shows that proceeds from agricultural products stood at US$51m in October, representing 13.3% of total non-oil export proceeds. Meanwhile, industrial goods and food products accounted for 9.9% and 5.2% respectively. Export earnings from minerals accounted for the largest share (58.8%). We note that there has been increased traction in Nigeria’s solid minerals sector. Given that most states are endowed with minerals, it is important for their governments to identify and tap into their respective solid mineral deposits. In H2 2018 the Ebonyi state government launched a combined lead, zinc and copper processing plant. But, analysts at Rencap believe that the monetary policy of the Central Bank is usually based on the policy disposition of the individauals as the governor. For instance, Emefiele, whose tenure expires June has his main objective as the defence of the naira. To this end, a ban was placed on the importation of 41 items, and the developmental banking approach which has witnessed the bank’s interventions in some government programmes, like the Anchor Borrowers Programme, which it claims has led to self-sufficiency in rice production. Although the government’s rice programme, the Anchors Borrowers Programme (ABP), may have encouraged increase in local production of rice but it is dogged by numerous allegations of fraud and malpractices, many of which slow down its potentials. However, Nigeria and other key African Central Banks, such as those of Angola, Ghana and Kenya may hold their benchmark interest rates at their first meetings for the year beginning this week due to growing concerns over inflation and oil prices.