Ilorin – Just  as he went to Join the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2014 with retinue of his political  supporters in his state, Kwara, the incumbent Senate President, Bukola   Saraki, last year, returned  with the supporters to  his former party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after about 4 years he left the party. Saraki became the Senate President on the platform of the APC though with a major support by the members of the PDP in the Senate and since his exit of the APC, he has maintained his senate presidency in the face of threats and attempts by the APC leadership to get him removed from the office. When he returned to the PDP from the APC, he was followed by the Kwara state governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed, his colleagues from the state at the Senate, Mohammed Shaaba Lafiagi and Rafiu Ibrahim, the six House of Assembly members from the state, 23 out of the 24 members of the state Assembly, the 16 chairmen and virtually all other political office holders in the 16 local government councils of the state. His return to the PDP alongside  these his associates thus means that the party has resumed the control of the state as it used to do before the defection to the APC in 2014 and the APC losing the control of the state. The politician  became an emerging political leader in Kwara state in 2011 when he succeeded in installing Ahmed as the governor and fully assumed the office of the leader a year later when his father, Olusola Saraki, who used to be political kingmaker of the state died He had, before emerging the political leader, joined politics in the state as a governorship aspirant in 2002. He contested the primaries of the PDP and won the ticket to be the major challenger of the then incumbent governor, Mohammed Lawal of the defunct All  Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) in the election of 2003 and  also won the election  But, his victories at both the primaries and the election proper were facilitated by his father,  who at the time was the leader giving a direction in the state politics. Having won the election he served as the governor of the state between 2003 and 2007 before being reelected for a second term in 2007 also with the support of his father who had facilitated emergence of  all the civilian governors of the state since the second republic. The politician however found himself in 2011 in another camp different from that of his father as the two of them supported two different candidates for the election. For many reasons which included the choice of candidates, zone of candidates, strength of the parties  and  health challenge of the father, his own candidate was able to prevail against that of his father at the election. Since this happened and more so with the death of his father in 2012, Saraki has dominated the politics of the state with control of a structure that wins the majority votes regardless of party adopted. However, his political leadership of the state appears to be facing a serious challenge as the state prepares for this year general election where the people will decide who they want in the leadership of the state. APC which is now the major opposition party in the state sounds to have a project they prepare to heavily invest on. This is putting an end to leadership and, perhaps, relevance of Saraki in the politics of the state The party’s project appears to be  in line with desire of those among the electorate in the state who are longing for a change of leadership. Saraki’s administration as a governor in the state for eight years is believed by many to be beneficial to the state in term of infrastructural development. Impact of the administration was felt in many sectors which include roads, health, education, agriculture and sports. However many others believed that the administration was not impressive in some sectors and many more appear to begin to be seeing his leadership as disservice to the state after he had left office and was succeed by Ahmed. These people hold the view that Ahmed was not performing and that it was the godfather role being played by Saraki that was largely responsible  for non-performance. This home opposition to Saraki’s leadership gained strength to the extent that after emerging the Senate President and was facing challenges from the national leadership of the APC and the presidency, the state former governor did not look to be receiving enough solidarity at home even though the challenges were consider in some quarters as persecution. The situation did not change when he claimed,  without the affected APC leader disproving it, that that leader was fighting him because he opposed his ambition which could deny the party victory at the presidential election. The politician was not in good term with the presidency and the APC leadership till he left the party and, while the opposition to him from these two sides after he left the party could be said to aggravate the disenchantment with his leadership at home among the residents seems subsisting What appear to be another crisis for Saraki as he fights to retain his leadership during the election is the loss of allies. The defection of the politicians  from PDP to APC and from APC to PDP seem to have caused his camp loss of some bigwigs who  are of  some value to the camp. Some bigwigs such as Simeon Ajibola. the gubernatorial candidate of the PDP in 2015, Shuaib Oba Abdulraheem, former chairman of the Federal Character Commission, and Isa Bio Ibrahim, former minister of transport were with Saraki in PDP but refused to follow him to APC while they left the PDP for APC when he returned to PDP. Some other stalwarts among whom is Mohammed Ahmed, a former senator who followed him to APC refused to return to the PDP with him. Many of these bigwigs had been influential politicians in their constituencies before they operated under the leadership of Saraki and it is not unlikely that they, to some extent, retain this influence which will be advantageous for the opposition side the politicians have pitched tent with.  On the other hand, there is the opinion that with exception of few such as Mohammed Lafiagi, a former governor of the state most of the bigwigs remaining in the camp of Saraki are politicians who grew influence under leadership of Saraki and who may not have the capacity to extent tentacle of influence of Saraki beyond where the politician has spread it. What is also being considered as a factor that may operate in the contest for political leadership of the state in the election is an alleged federal government influence otherwise being reffered to as the federal might. It is being said in some quarters that with the return of Saraki to the PDP, the APC which appears to be strongly determined to unseat him as the political leader of the state would make use of the federal might against him at the poll. It appears that one of  the instances  being referred to as operation of federal might is the use of the security agent to aid rigging of election. But, this did not happen during the House of Representatives by-election conducted recently in the state which was won by the APC. Most observers adjudged the election as being free and fair with no security aiding any manipulation. This is also the situation in 2015when Saraki left the ruling PDP for APC. There was no report that the PDP used the security agent to manipulate the election as the Saraki’s APC won all the seats contested. Saraki has however dismissed the efficacy of the federal might as he noted that his camp in 2015   contested against the PDP controlled federal government and emerged victorious. The politician who stated this recently in Ilorin while urging his supporters not to entertain any fear about the might said what matter most is the support of the supporters at the poll. It is  however still being discussed in some quarters  that the influence of the  might may manifest in this election. Those who suspect this are saying that the federal government and the PDP seemed to be milder in their opposition to Saraki and less desperate to clip his wings unlike the  present government and the leadership of the APC seem to be now.