ABUJA – Arrangements have been concluded by the National Association of Academic Technologists(NAAT) and Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU) to begin the disbursement of N8 billion meant for settlement of arrears of earned allowances. The funds are to be disbursed to members who successfully scaled through a recent forensic audit,  carried out by public universities management across the country. The audit that was conducted following disagreement between the government and university-based unions after a protracted strike became necessary to ascertain those who were eligible to receive the funds. Although the strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is yet to be resolved, the N8 billion set to be disbursed to NAAT and NASU formed part of N30 billion earlier released to the affected universities in consonance with a subsisting agreement between the federal government and the ivory towers back in 2009. However, there are indications that some Vice Chancellors within the university system may have compromised in the sharing formula, as some have been indicted for channeling the funds to wrong sources. The development prompted the President of NAAT, Comrade Sani Suleiman, at the end of the 39th National Executive Council meeting held in Abuja at the weekend, urging the Minister of Education Adamu Adamu, to put mechanism in place to avoid a situation where members of the union would be denied the allowance. Suleiman said, “NAAT commends the federal government for the released N8billion for payment of earned allowances to non teaching staff of federal universities. ” The union hereby calls on the Minister of Education to ensure that the disbursement actually goes to deserving staff and strictly in compliance with the agreement signed between the government of Nigeria and the respective non teaching staff unions.” “Vice Chancellors of Federal Universities must not allow themselves to be intimidated or pressured into paying the money to undeserving staff.  NAAT stands by the templates derived from the respective agreements signed with the government in 2009″.