ADO-EKITI – In the last 100 days, governance in the nation’s fountain of knowledge and land of honour,is not only in the hand of a new administrator ,Dr John Kayode Fayemi (alias JKF,) but being run by another political party,All Progressives Congress (APC). Expectedly,there is a new thinking which is in tandem with the policy thrust and Campaign mantra of the new administration ‘Reclaiming Our Land,Restoring Our Values ,’ Dr Fayemi was inaugurated as Governor of Ekiti State on October 16, 2018. The administration would be 100 days in office on Thursday. As part of the activities lined up for one- day celebration,the governor will flag off New Ado-Iyin road project. There would be a Stakeholders Forum, where representatives of critical stakeholders in the state would interact with the Governor and his team. Another highlight of the of event would be flag off a training and empowerment programme for 6,300 youths in the state . The 6,300 youths billed to participate in the training and empowerment programme are drawn from all the 16 local government areas of the state. The programme is being done in collaboration with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE). Although the governor is yet to constitute full cabinet,he had named Mr Biodun Omoleye as Chief of Staff to the Governor, and Mr Yinka Oyebode as Chief Press Secretary to the Governor. Oyebanji, a former University lecturer, had previously served as Chief of Staff during the administration of Otunba Niyi Adebayo, and was Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning during Fayemi’s first term. Omoleye, a former University administrator and former Chairman of Ijero Local Government, had also served as Special Adviser in the Governor’s Office. Only two Commissioners, Finance and Justice had been appointed with few Special Assistants. Paucity of fund was adduced as reason for the delay, but Daily Independent learnt that full cabinet would be constituted after the general elections . Governance, however in the last few months is primarily anchored on correcting the past errors ,setting standards and rewarding excellence .This was evident in the reinstatement of sacked senior government officials . Efforts are geared towards rebuilding and strengthening relationship with business partners and international communities, and above all laying the foundation for growth and sustainable development . No fewer than eight sacked Permanent Secretary by Fayose have been recalled in the last 100 days . Shortly after his declaration by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the winner of the July 14,2018 Governorship Election in Ekiti ,Fayemi in his victory speech thanked the people for bringing him back to administer the state. While setting agenda for Ekiti ,Fayemi declared “I offer my assurances that we will not wait till then to bring immediate succour to you. We will proactively explore all avenues within the limits of the law, especially through the Transition Committee to be set up very soon, to ensure the outgoing administration prioritises the payment of the backlog of salaries to all categories of workers and pensioners.” Shortly after his unique Inauguration on October 16,2018 at the popular new Iyin -road Ekiti Parapo Pavilion ,Fayemi begun to match his words with actions . The pavilion is one of his legacies projects . Although,the Transition Committee earlier set up him had engaged various interest groups in the state with a view to knowing their expectations from the new government and the challenges faced in the previous one .Memoranda, position papers as well as corporates presentations were made to the various sub committees. With this notwithstanding, the governor also empaneled interface platforms where communities also came up desired projects .This was done on senatorial basis. The governor also embarked on tour of key projects sites across the state which were scandalously abandoned by his predecessor . Among them were the hitherto flourishing multi billion naira Ikogosi Resort ,Ire-Ekiti Burnt Bricks Industry For instance, the payment of workers salaries which had become intractable by the immediate past regime ,often became a thing of the past , as workers now receive their monthly pay promptly .it is interesting to note that Fayose had paid four months salaries within three months of his. assumption of office . Other areas where the governor had made huge intervention is Education. First ,the governor abolished arbitrary levels imposed by Fayose in all public and private schools in Ekiti . Significantly ,Fayemi has restored the payment of the West African examinations Council (WAEC) fees for 13,000 final year students in public secondary schools, purchase of 3,000 Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) forms for Ekiti youths and procurement of 552 laptops for selected secondary schools. He has approved N227 million ( Two Hundred and Twenty Seven million naira) for the registration of about 13,390 SS3 students in public schools who will be writing the May/June West African Senior Secondary Certificate Examination (WASSCE) this year. The governor has released a sum of N146 million for the payment of Rural Teachers Allowance and Core Subjects Allowance to teachers in its employ. From the fund a ,total number of 3,314 teachers serving in rural areas got N77,352,843.75 while total number of 2,889 core subjects teachers got N68,718,214.90. Core Subjects Allowance is paid to public school teachers teaching Mathematics, English Language, Physics, Chemistry and Biology while Rural Teachers Allowance is paid to teachers who offered to serve in rural communities. This is in addition to the release of N200 million as loan for car and housing to teachers. The payment of the special allowances covers three-month arrears of October, November and December 2018. In line with his administration’s determination to attain food sufficiency and revamp the Agricultural Sector,Fayemi has re-jig his far -reaching agricultural policy The governor also flagged off a $56million Ero Dam turnaround project with an assurance to meeting 85 percent water needs of the people of the state With the commencement of the project ,Fayemi said he had declared emergency in the water sector in Ekiti . The project is being handled by Sagittarius Henan Engineering and it is expected to be completed within 18 months. In his speech at the project site in Ikun Ekiti , Moba Local government ,the governor explained that the project would involve rehabilitation of main transmission pipelines from Ifaki. Ekiti to Ado ,-Ekiti the state capital. He hinted that the emergency was in line with the step taken by President Muhammadu Buhari, who had initiated similar policy under a programme called Water Supply Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in partnership with the world bank. He said the WASH programme of the federal government and world bank was initiated to reduce amount being paid by Nigerians on hospital bills after contacting all forms of diseases from unhygienic water sources. The governor added that the state had paid a staggering sum of N700m counterpart fund to complete the project that was approved by the world bank in 2014. “It was because of the safety of the citizens that the federal government declared emergency in WASH. So, Ekiti has keyed into the programme with this project. “ Ekiti was ranked second in Nigeria as state that practice open defecation . We shall put up institutional and legal frameworks to ensure Ekiti is open defecation free before 2030. “Part of what accounted for this high practice was because of low water supply to our homes. “ We have done our feasibility studies, 85 percent of our water in Ekiti shall be provided by Ero and Egbe dams if they operate at optimal capacity”, he said. In a related development, World Bank is planning to spend $3 Million on three government technical colleges in Ekiti State under the Bank’s Innovation and Development Effectiveness for Acquisition of Skills ( IDEAS) programme. According to Dr Tunde Adekola, the Bank’s Senior Education Specialist, the IDEAS programme would focus on technical and vocational education skills and would be private sector-driven. IDEAS is World Bank’s SEPIP successor programme. SEPIP was started in Ekiti State in November 2013 under Governor Fayemi and the programme had seen to the establishment of various education related projects, including the ongoing rehabilitation of the Government Technical College, Ado Ekiti.