LAGOS – Amaju Pinnick, President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), is focused on winning the 2019 Africa cup of Nations holding in Egypt in June. Consequently, he believes preparing the Super Eagles adequately for the tournament was the major focus of the NFF for this year, while also making it clear that Nigeria was interested in putting up excellent performances in every competition she is involved in. Pinnick, who is also 1st Vice President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and President of the AFCON Organizing Committee, said at the weekend that a fourth AFCON title was overdue for Nigeria. “There are so many competitions this year and we intend to, as usual, put our best foot forward in each and every one of them. The target always is to emerge victorious. “However, the very big one that we do not want to miss is the AFCON title. We have won it three times but we want it for a fourth time so that we can close the gap with the likes of Egypt and Cameroon. “The NFF will work with the technical crew to achieve an excellent preparation of the Super Eagles for the tournament. Everything legitimate would be done to ensure the Super Eagles triumph in Egypt. Egypt have won the AFCON title seven times; Cameroon five, while Ghana have four titles to her name. It will be recalled that CAF Executive Committee on Tuesday last week voted for Egypt, hosts of the 1959, 1986 and 2006 editions of the competition, to host the first –ever 24 –nation finals scheduled for June 15 to July 13 this year. The Super Eagles, like they did in the qualifying race for last year’s FIFA World Cup finals in Russia, have earned a ticket to the finals with a match to spare, following a 1-1 draw with South Africa in Johannesburg on November 17, 2018. They take on Seychelles in a purely ceremonial session in Asaba on March 22 to conclude the campaign. “The match against Seychelles will serve as the beginning of our preparations for the AFCON, to be followed four days later by a friendly against the Egyptian National Team at the same venue. “The team would likely play two matches during its final training camp before the AFCON finals.” The Draw Ceremony for the four –week, 24 –nation championship is expected to be done at the end of March.