Igoniko Oduma, JOY ANIGBOGU Yenagoa / LAGOS – Seriake Dickson, the Bayelsa State Governor, said his administration had raised the bar of infrastructure development and good governance in the state in the past seven years. Dickson, who stated this while fielding questions from journalists in Lagos on Thursday after receiving the Independent Newspapers Man of the Year 2018 Awards, attributed the successes of his administration to his passion and the commitment of his team. The governor, who described public service as a platform for service, said his government had succeeded in making indisputable positive difference in Bayelsa and that the people would see more changes before the end of his tenure. He commended the management of Independent Newspapers Limited, publishers of Daily Independent, Saturday Independent and Sunday Independent, for finding him worthy to be honoured and dedicated it to the people of Bayelsa and members of his team. Some of the big-ticket projects that had brought accolades to the Dickson administration included an international airport and the 80-kilometre Sagbama-Ekeremor Road, which the Federal Government earmarked for construction over 40 years ago, but could not do it. Explaining how he embarked on what has been described as unparalleled infrastructure development of Bayelsa, Dickson said: “It is a question of commitment. Above all, it had to do with the passion of my team and I. “Now, we are consolidating and our people will see more changes. What is important is for people to know that public office is a platform for service. I think we have demonstrated that in all facets of governance of the state. “These awards are coming because of our genuine commitment to service. We have been able to make very clear and positive difference. The Bayelsa story has changed for good because of this commitment.” While appreciating the management of Daily Independent Newspaper for the award, which he described as an intimidating one, noted that the Nigeria that Timi Dakolo sang about was a Nigeria for all Nigerians and whether Nigerians agree or disagree, it should be for the larger Nigeria interest, even as he appreciated all the people who had contributed to his success story. The politician said that the issue of restructuring had become very relevant in view of current happenings in the country and because Nigeria belongs to all Nigerians, everyone should have a level playing ground where people should have the power to manage their resources, have a sense of belonging.