Ibadan – As part of effort to sensitise the public on child abuse, the captains of industry, members of the Oyo State House of Assembly, government functionaries, sport personalities and prominent people across walks of life have set to lead the walk against child abuse act. The campaign, which is set to hold on Saturday, December 14th, 2019 will take off from Liberty Stadium formerly (Obafemi Awolowo Stadium), Oke-Ado, Ibadan by 7am. This year’s campaign tagged ‘Save the Children, Save the Future,’ according to the convener, Oludotun Ajibola, who is also the Publisher, Happy People Magazine, will witness the presence of important personalities cut across walks of life. He disclosed that many children have become victims of the act as a result of ignorance. According to the convener, “lots of future leaders have been lost due to the menace of child abuse, ranging from hawking, raping to other form of abuse. It is to sensitise parents who seeing their wards as a means of making money or tools for their livelihood. It is to make the people realize hazards associated with and negative impact of abuse on the victims and the society as a whole. “Our efforts are centred on how to subdue the menace of child abuse within the society. We have been engaging the public in the last five years through seminars and concerts Against Child Abuse with focus on putting a stop to it or reduce it to the barest minimum.” Expected to lead the campaign are Arc. Hassan Olawale Giwa, Founder, Hassan Giwa Foundation; James Jegede, Chairman, Sonos Nigeria Limited; Hon. Yusuf Adebisi, Deputy Chief Whip; Hon. Olawumi Bimbo Oladeji, Chairman, Committee on Women Affairs and Social Inclusion and Hon. Sunkami Babalola, Deputy Majority Leader in the Oyo State House of Assembly. Also expected is the Deputy Chief of Staff to Governor Seyi Makinde, Hon. Mojeed Mogbojubola;Hon. Kazeem Bolarinwa, Special Adviser to the Governor on Youth and Sports and Ambassador Romoke Ayinde, CEO, Kayrom Lee Limited. Among ex-international players expected to participate in the walk are Dimeji Lawal, 3SC Team Manager, Edit Agoye, Muyiwa Lawal, Kabiru Alahusa and Mutiu Adepoju. Notable journalists also expected are Publisher, Parrot Xtra Magazine, Olayinka Agboola, Olanrewaju Agiri, Ayotunde Ayanda, Dare Adeniran, Abiodun Adetiloye and some popular On Air Personalities.