LAGOS – The Christmas season is a special period that many people all over the world look forward to. Universally believed to be the date when Jesus Christ was born, it is a period that is associated with gifts. Many people who may not have received any gift throughout the year are optimistic that the likelihood of getting a gift during the Christmas season is very high, irrespective of their religious leanings. Even President Muhammadu Buhari, a Muslim received a special Christmas gift from his deputy, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo during this Christmas. Osinbajo via his official Facebook page shared photos of himself and President Buhari as he presented the gift him and he said “I think Mr. President was delighted with his Christmas gift”. It’s rare to hear about people rejecting Christmas gifts. In African settings, even if your enemies present you a gift during the Yuletide, you collect as a mark of courtesy and respect and later decide whatsoever you will do with it later. However, in Edo state, the issue of Christmas gift between the state governor, Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole has set tongues wagging both within and outside the state. The state government in a statement had claimed that Christmas gifts of four cows and 10 bags of rice from Governor Obaseki to Oshiomhole, who is the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomhole were rejected by the former governor’s mother. Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, stated that messengers from the state government who were dispatched to deliver the conventional Christmas presents reserved for former governors of Edo State to Oshiomhole were turned back. “The messengers said they met the mother of the former governor, who rejected the items, stating that her son would not accept the gifts.The gift items meant for Comrade Oshiomhole include four cows and ten bags of rice” . “The distribution of Christmas gifts is an annual ritual by the state government, which serves as an expression of love, further strengthening the ties between the government and the people. “The gifts are distributed to government functionaries, political appointees, heads of security agencies, traditional rulers, religious leaders, heads of institutions of higher learning, among other prominent people in society. “The State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki and Comrade Oshiomhole have been locked in a political tussle over the governor’s policy choices focused on prioritising the peoples’ welfare as against pressures by a handful of politicians to share the state’s resources. “The governor had set the political rift aside to perform the ritual of sending the gifts to Comrade Oshiomhole,” the statement said. Responding to the Government statement, the State Secretary of the APC, Mr Lawrence Okah, commended Oshiomhole’s mother for rejecting the gifts. “We hail Madam Oshiomhole for rejecting the rice, if the story being cooked from the Edo State Government House is true. Why, because no responsible mother will want the enemies to kill her son. Obaseki has on several occasions threatened to kill Oshiomhole or remove him as National Chairman. The people he told are there alive and can testify to it. So why will he take a poisonous cow and rice to Oshiomhole’s house? Is that not deceit. “Edo State APC commends our mother who also doubles as the mother of APC in Afemai land in rejecting that poisonous gift. “Obaseki is like the proverbial rat that will bite you and at the same time fan the wound. Enough of his deceit and rubbish. He should eat his rice and cow with his new found friends in the PDP until judgment day comes,” Okah said.