LAGOS – The telecommunications industry in Nigeria is one that can currently be described as self-aware and steadily adapting to the stark realities of business – changing trends, intense rivalry, regulatory uncertainties etc. There is a general understanding that to remain sustainable in the current industry, there is a need to recreate existing products, diversify into new areas for which the capabilities and resources are near, improve on general business processes and navigate through the regulatory landscape. In the 1st Quarter and 2nd Quarter of 2019, telecoms contribution to GDP stood at 10.11% and 11.39%respectively. These contrast with 9.19% and 10.43% contribution in the 1st Quarter and 2nd Quarter of 2018 respectively. In the same vein, general ICT contribution to GDP increased from about 10 % last year to 13.8% currently. However, the increased in active mobile voice subscribers was marginal because of factors such as improved Quality of Service, wider network coverage and reluctance to recover lost/damaged lines due to stringent recovery requirements. Hence, an increased from 174,012,136 to 180,386,316 was recorded. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Internet subscribers for the period rose from 114,306,598 to 123,559,596, while broadband penetration increased from 32.34% (indicating 61,732,130 Nigerians on 3G and 4G networks) to 37.87% ( indicating 72,289,389 on 3G and 4G networks) With regards to the use of Mobile Number Portability (MNP), 110, 500 numbers were ported between January, 2019 – October, 2019 as against 71, 723 subscribers who ported their lines between the same 10-month period in 2018. This is due to increased public education and awareness by the Commission’s head office and its zonal offices, as they intensified awareness on the availability and usage of Mobile Number Portability (MNP) across geo-political zones. The Commission received 19,841 complaints from telecoms consumers across sits various complains channels and successfully resolved 17,851, representing (90% success rate of consumer resolution). Subscriptions to DND 2442 to control unsolicited text messages increased is now 22,356, 919. Telcos’ Listing In 2019 Boosted Capital Market Operations One of the remarkable developments witnessed on the economy this year was listing telecoms companies on the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE), credit to the Danbatta-led Commission. The listing was one of the positive results of a ‘no-nonsense’, outstanding and effective regulatory effort of the Commission. The listing of MTN has, thus, served as tonic to other telcos to follow in the same direction such as the listing of Airtel. The Commission essentially facilitated the landmark listing of the country’s largest telecommunications operator on NSE in line with its regulatory activities as enshrined in the Nigerian Communications Act (2003) and other subsidiary regulations to promote investment, create a level-playing field for all licensees, ensure compliance to existing telecoms laws and facilitate delivery of top-notch quality of services (QoS) to the consumers. Undoubtedly, despite the high volatility seen in the Nigerian capital market for the year 2019, the listing of the biggest telecommunication companies, MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa has helped in making the market capitalisation bullish. Boosting Security Of Lives And Property Via ECC The Commission, this year, stepped up measures in his implementation of the Emergency Communications Centre (ECC) project to support President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s tripartite agenda, especially improving lives and property in the country. Therefore, the Commission has, through increased efforts this year, fully activated and made operational, ECCs in 17 States across the country and the FCT as listed below. FCT, Benue, Kwara, Plateau, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Ogun, Ekiti,  Ondo, Oyo, Edo, AkwaIbom, Cross Rivers, Imo, Anambra, Enuguand Adamawa. Subsequently, the commissioning of the National Emergency Toll free number 112 and the Katsina State Emergency Communication Centre, representing the North West Zone, was successfully carried out on the 23rd September, 2019. 2019 witnessed the licensing of six  InfraCos which are await FG’s approval for Counterparts funding to boost broadband infrastructure. The NCC pioneered 5G trial in Nigeria, becoming the first telecoms regulator in the West Africa to proactively begin such trial toward unleashing greater digital revolution. Over 24 million validly-registered subscriber records were scrubbed (deduplicated) by the Commission via Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) in fulfilment of the mandate to establish a credible database of telephone subscribers. NCC, in 2019, awarded the Value Added Services Aggregator licenses to 10 companies to provide VAS services. This will further boost the competitiveness of the telecoms VAS segment. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), in 2019, carried out a number of regulatory activities towards ensuring increased access to telecoms services, ensuring increased consumer education and protection, boosting security of life and property, sanitising the industry while also supporting other initiatives that are aimed at boosting innovation in the telecoms sector and continuously galvanizing the country’s overall economic growth. As part of its move to improve Quality of Service by promoting the availability of reliable, interoperable, rapidly restorable critical ICT infrastructure that are supportive of all required services, the Commission, in the course of the year, reviewed 2G Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and development and definition of 3G/4G QoS KPIs for collocation service providers as well as Internet Service providers (ISP). During the year, the NCC also developed the New National Numbering Plan. Based on recent developments in the global telecommunications industry such as machine to machine (M2M) communications, the Internet of Things (IoT), Over-the-Top (OTT) and others, as earlier stated, and other services made possible by fourth-generation networks and the futuristic 5G/6G technologies, the NCC has considered it imperative for the numbering plan in the country to be reviewed. The development of the new NNP, therefore, will help to provide numbers that will satisfy the needs of the projected 500 million Nigerians to be connected and about 1 billion globally-interconnected machines and devices by 2050; promote efficiency in the allocation of this scarce national resource; promote competition among service providers; eliminate the risk of running short of all categories of numbers; facilitate the introduction and development of new and innovative services and above all, encourage growth of the telecommunications sector and the attendant job creation and contribution to National Gross Domestic Product (GDP), among others. The Commission ensured type Approval of End User Devices to certify that Quality of Service/ and Quality of Experience (QoE) experienced by the user is not negatively impacted. This is to prevent counterfeit devices in the Nigerian Market through Equipment Authorisation. The Commission has also continued to monitoring point interconnection performance among operators and ensure resolution of interconnect disrupted among operators to prevent serious impact on quality of service received by the consumers. The Commission also ensured Quality of Service Performance Monitoring through continuous monitoring of service delivery by the operators to ensure compliance. The Commission also intensified collaboration with necessary stakeholders and government agencies at Federal and state levels towards resolving critical industry challenges affecting faster deployment of telecoms infrastructure in the country. These include right of way issue, multiple taxation and regulations, vandalism, indiscriminate closure of base stations, fibre cuts, among other. In line with the number 6 of the 8-Point agenda of the Commission, which addresses protection and empowerment of telecom consumers and in sync with its PIE Mandate (Protection, Information and Education of the consumer), the NCC has carried out a number of consumer-centric activities during the year.