ABUJA – Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment,  yesterday  decried  the N800billion  Nigeria  spent on  importation of papers and paper products,saying it’s  as unsustainable to the nation’s  economy. The minister ,who spoke  at the inauguration of  a committee for the resuscitation of the Nigerian Paper Industry, vowed that the Federal Government would resuscitate the Nigerian paper Industry. He explained  that the vision of government in setting three major mills industry  in  the 70s and 80s was to build up platforms, taking advantage of the rich forest resources available in the country and to enhance local capacity to meet up with Country’s demand for paper and paper products,  stressing that, “it is  on record these Industries were functional and operational until they were privatised”. He maintained that the Buhari Next Level Agenda was poised to reverse this ugly trend in the industry especially  in its resolve and  commitment to the  economic  diversification of the country, stressing that, the  Committee has critical role  to come up with innovative ideas towards the resuscitation of the industry. The Committee has the following terms of reference which included “to determine the conditions/terms under which the paper mills were privatised; assess the status of the mills since privatisation; carry out due diligence of the privatized paper mills; to interface with new prospective investors who have indicated interest in the paper mills. The committee is expected “to recommend measures for the resuscitation of the Paper industry; to liaise with relevant Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) on the need to propose sector specific incentives/concessions required to attract investments into manufacturing of paper and paper products in the country as well as to propose and recommend holistic measures for the resuscitation of the paper industry in the country.” In his remarks, the chairman of the committee, Mr. Edet  Sunday Akpan thanked  the minister  for the new assignment and assured him of  their commitment to  ensure  that  all relevant persons and institutions are carried along in a bid to revive the paper industry. In his remarks, the Director- General, Bureau of Public Enterprises, Mr. Alexander Okoh who was represented by the Director, Post Transition Management, Yusuf Adamu, said that all efforts would be channeled towards   the resuscitation of the Nigerian paper industry to attract foreign direct investment.