ABUJA – As part of effort to give back and impact on the general wellbeing of their community, North America -based Nsu Development and Cultural Association (NDCA) has concluded arrangement for a 3-day medical mission, starting December 21-23, in the 9 towns that make up Nsu, a serene community in Ehime Mbano LGA of Imo State. The outreach, a build up to an earlier version held in 2017, will cover mainly primary healthcare needs of the community with occasional interventions in secondary and emergency medical services. The organisers said the medical mission will assist NDCA develop epidemiological disease profile of people in the community for future planning and better services. NDCA is currently pioneering a multi-million dollar Nsu International Hospital, built through voluntary effort, and now in its finishing stages. Dr. Steven Madu, NDCA President and Coordinator of the outreach underscored the importance of participation by people of the community, stating that NDCA is building for the future. “We are making frantic effort to provide medical services to our people, so we encourage them to utilize the opportunity and help drive a successful mission. Participating in the medical mission will help us to develop epidemiological disease profile of our people for future planning and better services. “NDCA is determined to leave a legacy in Nsu and we encourage everyone to be part of this legacy. Because our hospital facility is still under construction, we are very much constrained in terms of advanced services we would like to provide. Therefore, this year’s (2019) medical mission has been structured to provide a wide range of primary health care services with occasional secondary level services as condition permits. Safety of our people is paramount and our services are subject to NDCA’s mission statement”. He said experts in vast areas of medical practice have been assembled for the three day medical mission noting that 13 generalizes medical practitioners, an Obstetrician and Gynecologist, an Orthopedic surgeon, an internist and an Ophthalmologist have offered to participate. Others are 18 trained nurses, four of whom are coming from USA, while 14 from Nigeria are coming mostly from federal medical centers and teaching hospitals in Nigeria. The team also includes nine laboratory scientists; two pharmacists, both PhD in pharmacology; three Dietitians and two Communicable disease unit expert amongst many others. Dr Madu explained that provision is also being made for a facilitated referral to higher medical facility, should the need arise