AKURE – Residents of Iwaro/Oka Akoko in Akoko Southwest Local Government Area of Ondo State, on Saturday, staged a protest against incessant killings by reckless heavy-duty vehicles drivers in the community. Chanting various protest songs, the protesters displayed placards with different inscriptions such as “Incessant Accidents Make Us Homeless”, “Don’t Turn Our Community Into Ghost Town”, “Our Lives Matter, No Solution, No Peace”, “We Are Tired Of Accident On Akungba/Oka Road”, “ODSG Construct Alternative Road On Akungba Oka Road”, among others to express their grievances. While the protest lasted, all roads linking the community to others were barricaded by the protesters who came out in their hundreds, as this caused serious gridlock on the Iwaro/Oka Road for several hours. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Speaking on the reason for the protest, Chairman of Iwaro Oka Community Union, Otunba Dele Ologbese, revealed that the protest became necessary due to large number of lives being lost due to accidents caused by heavy-duty vehicles drivers on the road. He explained that a lot of farmers in the community have suffered great economic loss as the plantations had been razed by fire caused by trucks carrying inflammable products that were involved in accidents in the community. Ologbese, however, advised the state government to erect barricades that would prevent heavy-duty vehicles from passing through the community and provide an alternative route for them to use. Princess Adekemi Omorinbola, the Regent of the Asin of Iwaro Oka, lamented that despite several correspondences to the state government on the loss of lives and property in the community, nothing has been done to stop the carnage. She, however, called on the state government to swing into action and check the menace to prevent further killing of the people in the community. Dapo Fasesin, the Chairman of the local council, claimed that the governor had promised to solve the heavy-duty vehicles challenges in the community. According to him, Iwaro Oka Road was part of the first projects embarked upon by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, calling on the people to give the governor benefit of the doubt.