Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie One day, a Pastor came to our Adoration Prayer Ministry. He was disappointed with what he saw. According to him, he has heard so much about me and the Adoration ministry, how God is using the ministry to set the captives free, he was expecting to see ‘a very big auditorium’; but was surprise to see a small hall and no single upstair in the compound (as at then). He was, however, amazed how God could operate even in a poor rural area like Egoro Amede. Incidentally, as he was speaking, my favoured children (the orphans) got dismissed from school, I decided to take him round the compound. Each orphan we met on our way, I will point at him and say, “This is auditorium number One.” I appointed at the second orphan and said, “auditorium number two. At the end, we were able to count over a hundred auditoriums. The pastor was amazed and he exclaimed, “This is indeed an eye opener!” He told me that he has learnt a lesson from his visit.  It is this same lesson that I want to share with you, my dear reader. Church is not all about structure as many people wrongly think. St. Paul describes the human body as the Temple of the Holy Spirit: “Do you not know that you are God’s temple and that God’s Spirit dwells in you? 17 If anyone destroys God’s temple, God will destroy that person. For God’s temple is holy, and you are that temple” (1 Corinthians 3:16-17). Indeed, each and every one of us is the temple of the Most High God. We are the Church, the Body of Christ. Unfortunately, most Men of God are busy building structures, auditorium, and even basilicas in the name of the Church. There is nothing wrong with building a befitting dwelling place for the Most high God. As King Solomon rightly declare, “You know that my father David was unable to build a temple to honor the Lord his God, for he was busy fighting battles on all fronts while the Lord subdued his enemies. 4 But now the Lord my God has made me secure on all fronts; there is no adversary or dangerous threat. 5 So I have decided to build a temple to honor the Lord my God, as the Lord instructed my father David, ‘Your son, whom I will put on your throne in your place, is the one who will build a temple to honor me.” (1 Kings 5:3-5). king David had so many children but it was only Solomon that God chose to build him a temple. King David wanted to build a Temple for the Lord but the Lord rejected his offer. David said to Nathan the prophet, “Look, I am living in a palace made from cedar, while the ark of the Lord’s covenant is under a tent.” 2 Nathan said to David, “You should do whatever you have in mind, for God is with you.” 3 That night God told Nathan the prophet, 4 “Go, tell my servant David: ‘This is what the Lord says: “You must not build me a house in which to live… I did not say to any of the leaders whom I appointed to care for my people Israel, ‘Why have you not built me a house made from cedar?’”’ Our primary role as Men of God is to care for God’s people and not to impoverish them through Church building. The Lord did not reject David because he did not build a house for him, instead the Lord God assured King David,  “I took you from the pasture and from your work as a shepherd to make you a leader of my people Israel. 8 I was with you wherever you went and I defeated all your enemies before you. Now I will make you as famous as the great men of the earth. 9 I will establish a place for my people Israel and settle them there; they will live there and not be disturbed anymore. Violent men will not oppress them again, as they did in the beginning 10 and during the time when I appointed judges to lead my people Israel. I will subdue all your enemies. I declare to you that the Lord will build a dynastic house for you! 11 When the time comes for you to die, I will raise up your descendant, one of your own sons, to succeed you, and I will establish his kingdom. 12 He will build me a house, and I will make his dynasty permanent. ”’” Solomon was the lucky one! Although King Solomon was chosen to build a house for the Lord but he never lobbied for it. Even when God told him to ask for anything he wanted he did not pray for fund to build a Temple for the Lord, instead he prayed for the Wisdom to govern God’s chosen people: “Now, Lord my God, you have made your servant king in place of my father David. But I am only a little child and do not know how to carry out my duties. 8 Your servant is here among the people you have chosen, a great people, too numerous to count or number. 9 So give your servant a discerning heart to govern your people and to distinguish between right and wrong. For who is able to govern this great people of yours?” 10 The Lord was pleased that Solomon had asked for this. 11 So God said to him, “Since you have asked for this and not for long life or wealth for yourself, nor have asked for the death of your enemies but for discernment in administering justice, 12 I will do what you have asked. I will give you a wise and discerning heart, so that there will never have been anyone like you, nor will there ever be. 13 Moreover, I will give you what you have not asked for—both wealth and honor—so that in your lifetime you will have no equal among kings.” Nowadays, I wonder how many Men of God will not pray for wealth and power. Solomon was a wise man with a difference. With the Wisdom God gave to him he was able to empower his people. It was after empowering his people that God gave him the responsibility of building him a befitting dwelling place. Child of God, have you ever asked yourself, when Jesus Christ was in the world how many auditorium did he build? How many church or basilica did he erect. How many building committee did he set up? How many times did he raise fund for the building of structural churches? The gospel presents us with the image of Jesus, who had no place to lay his head (Matthew 8:20). Jesus, who went to farmland to preach the gospel of the kingdom of God. The best sermon on earth was not delivered in the synagogue or basilica but on the mountain – The Sermon on the Mount. While preaching at the seashore Jesus used the boat as pulpit. After preaching the gospel from the boat he empowered the young fishermen. He even transformed their lives from ordinary fishermen to fishers-of-men. Our youths are passing due to unemployment, economic hardship, I am using this medium to appeal to my fellow Men of God, as we build the structural Church we should also build the mystical Church, which is the Body of Christ. The youths are not just the future hope of the Church they are actually members of the Body of Christ, the Church. The more we build and empower the youths the more the Church will grow, Unemployment will reduce, Insecurity will no longer be an issue and God’s name will be glorified forever in Jesus name – Amen!