At least three members of the so-called civil defense group White Helmets have been killed while transporting a shipment of explosives inside an ambulance in Syria’s west-central province of Hama, amid reports that they are preparing to carry out terrorist and chemical attacks across the country in a bid to incriminate Syrian government forces and invent pretexts for possible acts of aggression on army troops. Local sources told the Arabic service of Russia’s Sputnik news agency that the members of the notorious White Helmets were killed when the explosives denoted inside the vehicle as they were traveling along a road on the outskirts of Qastun village in the northwestern sector of the province on Saturday afternoon. The sources added that members of the Western-backed “aid” group were apparently transporting explosive materials from an area in the neighboring Idlib province to a location in the northwestern part of Hama. Russia has warned that Takfiri HTS militants and the so-called White Helmets are preparing to carry out false-flag chemical attacks in Syria’s northwestern province of Idlib.
The development took place only two days after the head of the Russian Center for the Reconciliation of Opposing Sides in Syria, Yury Borenkov, said members of the Takfiri Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) terrorist outfit together with the White Helmets group are gearing up for a false-flag chemical attack in the southern part of Idlib de-escalation zone. “The Center has also received information that HTS leaders, in coordination with members of the so-called White Helmets humanitarian organization, plan to use toxic materials and destroy civilian infrastructure in the southern part of Idlib de-escalation zone,” Borenkov said on Thursday. A survey by a Russian institution reveals that the White Helmets, which claimed to be an aid organization, has been involved in organ trafficking in Syria.
He added, “The aim of the provocation is to prepare (fabricated) photos and video materials, and then disseminate them via internet, Arab and Western media outlets to accuse Syrian government forces of using chemical weapons against civilians and of conducting indiscriminate strikes.” Western governments and their allies have never stopped pointing the finger at Damascus whenever an apparent chemical attack takes place. Back on April 14, 2018, the United States, Britain and France carried out a string of airstrikes against Syria over a suspected chemical weapons attack on the city of Douma, located about 10 kilometers northeast of the capital Damascus. Washington and its allies blamed Damascus for the Douma attack, an allegation rejected by the Syrian government. White Helmets deliberately execute Syrian women, children for misinformation: Russian group
White Helmets deliberately execute Syrian women, children for misinformation: Russian group
A Russian foundation says the so-called White Helmets have deliberately executed women and children to disseminate misinformation about Syria.
Damascus says the foreign-backed militants with the Western-support White Helmets staged the chemical attack in an attempt to frame the Syrian government. Syria locals give Russia hint on false-flag chemical attack
Syria locals give Russia hint on false-flag chemical attack
Russia says its foreign ministry has information on the matter through locals in the city of Saraqib.
The United States has warned it would respond to any possible chemical weapons attack by Syrian government forces with retaliatory strikes, stressing that the attacks would be stronger than those conducted by American, British and French forces last year. This is while Syria surrendered its stockpile of chemical weapons in 2014 to a joint mission led by the United States and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), which oversaw the destruction of the weaponry.