LAGOS – After months of hide-and-seek game, the Edo State House of Assembly on Wednesday declared vacant the seats of 12 members-elect, who have failed to present themselves for inauguration, as well as two others, who didn’t meet mandatory sitting requirement to continue as members of the House. By the declaration, the lawmakers-elect who have since relocated to Abuja and abandoned their legislative duties will be replaced by new members when a fresh election is conducted to fill their seats. Though the members-elect have kicked against the decision vowing to challenge it, the decision by the House has been hailed by key leaders of the party in the state as well as the constituents of the lawmakers-elect who have been denied of effective representation since June when the House was inaugurated by Governor Godwin Obaseki. Speaker of the House, Francis Okiye, while declaring the seats vacant during plenary, said the 12 members-elect defiantly refused to come and process the necessary documentation as part of the condition for their inauguration despite several appeals for them to do so. He said: “12 out of the 24 members-elect who completed their screening and documentation process were inaugurated on June 17, but two of them have refused to discharge their legislative duties. They have refused to represent their constituents in the House, invariably denying their constituents effective representation.” While calling on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct by-election within 90 days in the affected constituencies, the Speaker said the House was declaring the seats of the 12 members-elect vacant in accordance with Section 109 Sub-section 1F of the constitution. The 12 members-elect affected by the declaration are Vincent Uwadiae Ovia North-East 2 constituency; Ugiagbe Dumez Ovia North-East 1; Washington Osifo Uhunmwode, Michael Ohio-Ezomo Owan West constituencies, Victor Edoror Esan Central, Kingsley Ugabi Etsako East. Others are Chris Okaeben Oredo West constituency; Sunday Aghedo Ovia South-West; Crosby Eribo Egor, Oshomah Ahmed Etsako Central, Ganiyu Audu Etsako West 1 and Seidu Oshiomhole Etsako West 2. Going further, The House also declared the seats of Uyi Ekhosuehi and Henry Okaka, representing Oredo East and Owan East respectively, who didn’t meet mandatory sitting requirement as vacant. Though they were inaugurated, two members absconded and teamed up with the 12 members elect bringing their number to 14. They had not attended plenary since the inauguration of the House on June 17. Trouble began when the governor, in exercising the powers conferred on him by the constitution issued a proclamation for the inauguration of the House on June 17. Nine members of the House who successfully completed their inauguration were sworn-in. Two days later, two other members –elect, Hon. Sunday Ojiezele, representing Esan South East and Hon. Emmanuel Okoduwa representing Esan North East Constituency II were also sworn-in after completing their documentation process bringing the number to 11. During the swearing-in of the two lawmakers, the Speaker said that the inauguration was done after the members had completed documentation and to also prove to the world that they were not shielding anyone from accessing the House. He said the move was to encourage members-elect who are foot-dragging to complete their documentation and be sworn-in. “After the inauguration of the House, the sitting was adjourned to July 17, but exigences have necessitated the recall of members from their various committee assignments, reason being that it has become very necessary to demonstrate to the world that this House is not intended to shut out anybody. “Last Friday, the Clerk of the House brought to my knowledge that two members-elect have completed their documentation. I immediately told them to come forward for inauguration, and issued a notice of this sitting where the members were inaugurated.” “They should know that we were serious when we told them to complete their documentation and come forward to be sworn-in. As a matter of fact, this House has a responsibility to the people. We must hit the ground running. We have constituted our Principal Officers Council so that some decisions that need to be referred to the Principal Officers can now be done and the council can take decisions.” However, the embattled members-elect loyal to Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, former governor of the state claimed they were deliberately shut out of the inauguration as they were not notified. Claiming that the inauguration was done in the night, they also said vowed not to present themselves for inauguration until the governor issued a fresh proclamation. Despite several threats from Oshiomhole, who is the party’s national chairman and threats by the National Assembly to take over the functions of the Edo House of Assembly, Governor Obaseki stood his ground, saying the proclamation can only be done once. His position was affirmed in September by a Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt which declared that the National Assembly does not have the power to take over the functions of the Edo State House of Assembly or any other House of Assembly in the country. In a case instituted by the Deputy Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly, Yekini Idiaye, and a member of the House, Henry Okhuarobo, the court also ruled that the National Assembly lacks the power to direct Obaseki to issue fresh proclamation to the Edo State House of Assembly, saying such would amount to extending the tenure of members of the House of Assembly. Speaking in a recent interview on the political impasse in the House, Governor Obaseki said he is not preventing the aggrieved lawmakers-elect from being inaugurated. When asked what he is doing to end the impasse, Obaseki told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the lawmakers should come to the Assembly and be inaugurated like their colleagues who have been sitting in the chamber. “I am not stopping them from being inaugurated. I have issued the proclamation and their colleagues who showed up have since been inaugurated and carrying on with their legislative duties,” the governor said. With calls from their constituents asking them to be replaced for denying them representation and having realised they are losing out in the power play and the legislative business in the state is going on smoothly, the embattled members-elect sent a SOS to President Muhammadu Buhari asking him to intervene in the crisis. However, speaking with Daily Independent on the action of the House on the members-elect, Chief Charles Idahosa, a former Commissioner for Information in the state, commended the speaker and other members of the House for taking the decision, saying it’s long overdue. He added that there has been intense pressure from the constituents of the members-elect who have been denied effective representation since the House was inaugurated in June. He said the members-elect have shunned all entreaties from the state governor, party leaders and their constituents to come to the House and present themselves for inauguration so they can carry out the tasks for which they were elected. “It’s long overdue. These members-elect were given a mandate by the people to be their representatives in Edo State House of Assembly but they abandoned their assignments and were hanging out in hotels in Abuja and collecting money. “We the leaders here in Edo have been watching these members-elect who decided to abandon their duties and decided to go and hibernate in Abuja. “The governor, the speaker and their constituents have been appealing to them to come for inauguration but they refused. “I think the speaker and other members of the House have done the right thing because there has been pressure from the constituents of these absconded members-elect. It is high time we did away with them and elect people who are ready to serve us”, he said. Also speaking, one of the affected members-elect, Victor Edoror, who is also a former Speaker of the Edo Assembly, Hon Victor Edoror, said the declaration by the House can’t stand the test of time. “Okiye is not a Speaker. He is a member-elect like us. The Constitution is clear on how many members should be in an Assembly. Okiye has no powers to declare our seats vacant. All what is happening in the Edo Assembly are illegal and they will be swept out. My people are happy with me” he said. Okiye