LAGOS – The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has disclosed in Lagos that the Federal Government has approved the disbursement of money that accrued under the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) to Nigerian ship owners to enable them acquire vessels.
Amaechi disclosed this Thursday night, during the 2019 Stakeholders’ Appreciation Night organised by the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC). He vowed to wage war against pirates and oil thieves.
According to the Minister, a situation where Nigeria loses more than $7billion annually to oil thieves and where vessels are attacked with impunity by pirates would no longer be tolerated as long he remained in charge of the Transportation Ministry.
The Minister said a $195million maritime security contract signed by the Federal Government with an Israeli firm, HLSI Systems, is to put an end to issues around piracy and other irregularities on the nation’s territorial waters.
Amaechi maintained that the implementation of the contract would put an end to revenue leakages caused by security challenges and other illegal activities on Nigerian waters.
He vowed that criminals must be chased out of Nigerian territorial waters to make the waterways safe and attractive for foreign investment.
He appealed to lawmakers especially the relevant Senate and House of Representative committees to support the contract to put an end to the menace.
On the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF), the Minister said he would meet with relevant government agencies under the Federal Ministry of Transportation as well as indigenous ship owners to work out the modalities and process of disbursement.
Nigerian ship owners, under various groups, have severally expressed disdain over their inability to access the cabotage fund, which was believed to have accumulated to more than USD120million since inception in 2004.
The fund was established under the Cabotage and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act 2003 to provide finance to operators to maintain their vessels or purchase new ones. According to the Act establishing the fund, the Minister of Transportation is empowered to establish guidelines for the disbursement of the fund to eligible operators.