LAGOS – To the average Nigeria, members of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and other paramilitary agencies are corrupt and lack integrity. Every day, there are reports of bribery and corruption among men and officers of the uniformed and paramilitary forces along the roads, the borders and even in their offices. The citizens believe that the uniformed forces, especially the Police, Customs, Immigration, Federal Road Safety Corps, Civil Defence, among others, are rotten and neck deep in corruption. For anyone to have a case at the police station, be him the complainant or the accused, the general belief among Nigerians is that such a person cannot leave there without being coerced to cough out thousands of naira to the policemen. Although bail is said to be free, no one leaves the police cell, or even from behind the counter without paying through the nose. As far as a lot of Nigerians are concerned, President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption crusade has not been making impact among members of the police force, security and paramilitary agencies. Touched by the need to infuse integrity and check corruption among members and officers of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), among others, the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) on Thursday November 28, 2019 took its anti-graft campaign to senior officers of the agencies and the National Orientation (NOA) in Ikeja, Lagos. Comrade Debo Adeniran, CACOL’s Executive Chairman, led a team of facilitators to talk to the security and paramilitary officers. He was supported by Barrister Joke Fekumo of Socio-Economic Right And Accountability Project (SERAP), and Comrade Adeola Soetan, a former Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) students’ union president, among others. Adeniran, in his speech, lamented that Nigerian citizens, especially the masses, had come to see members of the forces as embodiment of corruption. He said the workshop was part of CACOL’s on-going moves to curb corruption in Nigeria’s political processes by having an interactive session that cut across diverse services. He also said that the workshop was part of his group’s C-GATE innovation in the war against corruption, which he said, stands for Good Governance, Accountability, Transparency and Education. He maintained that corruption, especially bribery, had become common among men and officers of the uniformed forces, attributing the trend to greed and selfishness, which he said was not different from what happen among the elites. Adeniran stated: “This anti-corruption campaign has been in existence for a long time, we discovered that many agencies that have been projecting this campaign have only been targeting the elites and not the grassroots and the middle class. “In CACOL, we did a paradigm shift from the elite to the grassroots to bring the advocacy and enlightenment campaign to the grassroots who serve as the primary victims of corruption in our society.” He lamented that the Police, Immigration, Customs, Road Safety and others collect bribes and allow criminals to go free. This has contributed to the high level of corruption in the society. Adeniran stressed: “In CACOL our ideology is to ensure that civil society organisation intervenes in the service of the security agencies, so that corruption would be totally eradicated. This programme is aimed at sensitising the government agencies and the society on what transparency is about.” He explained that the programme was not meant for government officials alone, “We are extending it to schools, where we will be privilege to convey our message to the younger generation and the teacher on how to shun, shame, nail and prosecute corruption and report to the necessary agencies.” He added that the society needed strong personality and institution in order to salvage the country from the devastating effects of corruption. Adeniran urged the government officials to stop making things difficult for the citizens who want to abide by the law and regulations of the country by making right things difficult and the wrong things easy, a situation he surmised is primarily responsible for what lead people to commit most of everyday corruption crimes. All these, he stressed, had further confirmed the fear and suspicion that as conscience of the nation, the civil society, which he said the media is an integral part, could and must not vacate the fight for eliminating the scary ogre of corruption from Nigeria’s social space or at least, reduce it to the barest minimum. While he warned the officers to shun bribery and corruption, Adeniran told them that with the level of corruption in the country, it had become difficult for people to do what was right, hence a lot of them had continued to do what was wrong. The CACOL boss stressed that officers and men of the law enforcement agencies had continued to make it difficult for offenders to pay the price of their offences due to deep rooted bribery and corruption among them. He lamented that things had become so bad that the Nigerian society no longer distinguish between the different law enforcement agencies, stressing that offenders should not be made to but their freedom through bribery. Adeniran added: “You have the power of coercion. You should use it with discretion. People are no longer afraid of those who sanction them because of corruption in the forces. This is because the laws could easily be circumvented. “Dishonest officers intimidate those who want to enforce laws and regulations to the letter. All the service agencies, including the fire service, no longer carry out their duties honestly, as they device ways to extort money from citizens in the course of their official duties of which they are paid by the government.” He lamented that things gad got so worse that national and personal security were being sacrificed n the altar of greed, adding that there was need for the law enforcement agents to help make the society better by ensuring that they carried out their official duties as stipulated in the constitution and the laws establishing each of the agencies. Adeniran stressed that while it was necessary for the law enforcers to infuse sanity on the society, they too should not forget that they were first human beings before becoming uniformed personnel, even as he urged them to desist from such actions that destroy the image of their organisations. He stressed: “Security men are human beings first before becoming policemen, Immigration officers, Customs officers and Road safety personnel. Even if you are carrying guns, that does not remove the humanity in you. “You should contribute to make the society better. Even if you are dismissed n the process, there organizations that will fight for your right until your positions are restored. Whatever you do with sincerity of purpose, even if you are punished for doing the right thing, the society will honour and recognise you.” Mrs. Fekumo, in her presentation told the officers that to kill corruption within the forces, they have to adhere strictly to their duties as provided by the country’s constitution, adding that the document listed all the dos and don’ts for public officers. She also urged them to strictly apply the rules and regulations in the laws or Acts establishing the agencies. Such laws, she stressed, should be well studied and applied by the officers. Aslo, she exhorted them to entrench good governance in whatever capacity they operate. Fekumo stressed: “Ensure that you have copies of the constitution and the laws establishing the agency you work with. Be true to the oath you have taken while entering the force. Respect the rights of citizens you swore to protect and reject bribery.” Comrade Soetan told the officers that corruption is contagious, lamenting that members of the Police Force are known for bribe taking, “but when they are on international assignments like peace-keeping, hey always emerge the best. Let us try and rebuild and reorganise the society. Let us be mindful of those we elect as leaders.” He condemned the continues looting of the nation’s patrimony by public officers, including members of the legislature and executive, who he said, approve all monies for payment of themselves, stressing that Nigerians should not expect miracle from people who are not supposed to be in government, but found themselves there either by hook or crook. The workshop included group discussions, interactive sessions and contributions from other activists and civil society groups involved in anti-corruption advocacy in the country. At the end of the day, the participants openly declared that they would be actively involved in the war against corruption by implementing what they had learnt to their work places.