Owing to the gradual onset of its season of abundance, prices of onions which had been on the high side since July, witnessed a slight reduction in most of the markets visited in the week under review.
Despite the marginal fall in the prices of the commodity, some of the traders were still unable to sustain their normal procurements as the price variance between the former and current appeared not to be significant, especially when taking into cognisance the high cost of transportation and all manner of taxes.
The continued closure of surrounding land borders by the Federal Government seemed not to have helped the situation either as some neighbouring countries such as Niger and Chad that used to bring in the commodity into the Nigerian market, could no longer do so.
With this, supply of the commodity was adversely affected as traders and consumers had to depend on what comes from the North, being major suppliers and producers of onions.
But, in spite of the marginal fall in the prices of onions, consumers still patronise the commodity because the health benefits associated with the consumption of onions cannot be overemphasised.
During the week, findings from a market survey conducted by the Business and Market, Intelligence Unit of SUNDAY INDEPENDENT revealed that prices of onions fell by over 15 and 10 percent in few markets from November to December 12, 2019.
Reasons predominantly mentioned for the slight fall in the prices of onions were seasonal factors, lack of purchasing power and closure of land borders.
Checks at the Dei-Dei Market, Abuja, showed that prices of onions were at a declining trend, especially with the prices of a 100kg bag currently ranging from N18,000 to 19,000 down from N22,000 earlier sold of which many of the traders connected to improved supply usually common in its season of plenty.
That of Achau Market, Kaduna, also reduced a little, currently selling for between N16,000 and N17,000 as against N18,500 initially sold.
Mallam Atthairu Musa, who trades in the commodity at the Achau Market, Kaduna, said on-season effect was responsible for the slight drop.
At the Ogbeogologo Market Asaba, Delta State, the trend was not at variance with what was obtainable in the North except that its prices were quite higher because of distance.
For example, prices of a 100kg bag of onions previously sold for between N27,000 and N30,000 fell within the region of N25,000 and N26,000 signifying an 8 or 14 percent reduction. This, however, depends on the specie and haggling power of the customer.
Many of the traders at the Ogbeogologo Market, Asaba, linked the situation to commencement of harvest season which will certainly affect the price positively during mass production.
The same could be said for that of Ose Market, Onitsha, as prices of a 100kg bag of onions dropped marginally to between N24,500 and N25,000 down from N27,000 initially sold.
Mrs. Grace Obaji, who retails the commodity at the Ose Market, Onitsha, said improved supply was responsible for the marginal decline in prices.
Checks at the Oba Market, Benin City, Edo State, indicated that prices of onions fell slightly from what they were previously sold.
For example, a 100kg bag that formerly attracted between N27,000 and N28,000 reduced to N25,000 of which many of the traders attributed to seasonal factors and low demand.
For Lafenwa Market, Ogun State, prices of a 100kg bag of onions decreased slightly, currently ranging from N23,000 to N25,000 as against N28,000 previously sold.
A man who trades in the commodity at the Lafenwa Market, Ogun State, but simply identified himself as Azeez Adekunle, attributed the situation to poor sales due to the exorbitant price as some consumers had to swap to an alternative -locust beans – which appeared to be cheaper.
At the Bodija, Market, Ibadan, the trend was not different from other locations, especially with the prices of a 100kg bag of onions, currently selling within the region of N23,000 and N25,000 against N28,000 initially sold.
But, this however, depends on the specie and negotiation power of the buyer.
Mr. Akadiri Bolu, who sells the commodity in large scale, linked the decline to arrival of on-season effect. This is just as Mr. Salami Ayotunde, another trader of same market, shared similar views, but principally attributed the slight reduction to closure of surrounding borders, which affected supply.
In Lagos, a visit to the popular Mile 12 Market also showed that there was slight increase in supply from the North owing to the number of trucks offloading the consignments.
During the period of severe scarcity, number of trucks conveying the commodity from the North always reduced, but the situation seemed not to be so within the review week owing to seasonal factors.
The situation, however, affected prices of onions positively, although, the variance was not substantial as harvesting period has just commenced.
For instance, a 100kg bag of onions sold previously for between N27,000 and N29,000 fell to between N23,000 and N26,000 depending on the type, size of bag and the bargaining power of the buyer.
Mr. Eze Nwosu, who sells the commodity at the Mile 12 Market, Lagos, linked the fall to on-season effect, stressing that prices of onions would certainly crash the more during the season of bumper harvest.
Consumers who procured the commodity in smaller quantities are worse hit as they complained that the reduction in the prices of onions did not reflect in their purchases.