AKURE – A Dutch agency, IDH (Sustainable Trade Initiative, Netherlands) has concluded plans to partner Ondo State government on oil palm landscape development. Representative of the international agency, Dr. Chris Okafor, disclosed that the partnership became necessary to help Ondo State in its oil palm revolution. He made the disclosure at a stakeholders meeting on National Initiative for Sustainable and Climate Smart on Oil Palm Smallholders (NISCOPS) at the instance of the Dutch agency and Ondo State Agribusiness Empowerment Centre (OSAEC) held at Federal College of Agriculture, Akure, Ondo State capital. Okafor stated that IDH is collaborating with Ondo State government and other states in the oil palm producing states to improve oil palm growing. He explained that all necessary spadework, including geophysical analysis and impacts of oil palm production on the environment as well as other tree crops. Okafor noted that other tree crops must not suffer and deforestation must be avoided while the drive to improve the value chain of oil palm in the state is pursued. Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Agric and Agribusiness, Pastor Akin Olotu explained that the state government, in concerted efforts with IDH, is currently processing N5 billion loans through Zenith Bank under the Presidential initiative on oil palm, Real Sector Support Fund (RSSF) to boost oil palm value chain in the state. He disclosed that through collaboration with IDH, the state government was able to send some farmers to Pobe, Benin Republic for oil palm nursery management as a business in preparation for the oil palm revolution. Olotu emphasised that both small and large scale growers would be accommodated, noting that quality seedlings would be chosen for the project and deforestation would be avoided which has attracted sanctions on Indonesia. He, however, disclosed that after the resolutions of the stakeholders, the project would take off in full scale, adding that 2000 hectares have been set aside for the project in each senatorial district of the state. Present at the meeting are Professor Oguntade, a prominent consultant, representatives of National Oil Palm Produce Association of Nigeria, representatives of Small Holders Processors, Chairman, National Oil Palm Produce Association, Ondo State chapter, Mr. Bolarinwa Adetula among others.