Lagos – Players in the Nigerian aviation industry have tasked the Federal Government to ensure consistency in the development of aviation policy, warning that without this, the sector would grope in crisis. Participants at the forth quarterly Business Breakfast Meeting organised by Aviation Safety Roundtable Initiative (Aviation roundtable), over the weekend in Lagos, insisted that only consistency in aviation development model would make the industry much profitable in the next five years, stressing that such model should not be tied to a regime. The theme of the roundtable, which attracted eggheads in aviation industry in the country, was: ‘Nigerian Aviation Beyond 2025.’ Barr. Babatunde Irukera, the Director-General of the Consumer Protection Council (CPC), who was one of the discussants, said airlines must change their business model to make impact in the system. Besides, he said it was high time the airport experience was improved upon, adding Nigerian airports must become “comfort zones” and not mere “travel ports.” Irukera declared that for the industry to make headway, before 2025, consumer protection must be taken with the seriousness it deserved; stressing the country had been recording huge number of no-shows at the airports because of bad airport experience. He said: “The airport experience must change. Airports all over the world today have now become comfort zones not travel ports.” “Some of these our models, we have to rethink them. We must make our airports places where people want to go and be before their flights. With the record of delays in our airports, Nigerians still record one of the highest numbers of no-shows, of people arriving late for their flights. “You must ask yourself why will that be the case? Traffic in Lagos is not much different from traffic in New York or Tokyo. But the average traveller in Nigeria is gauging the whole situation and trying to arrive at the airport just prior to departure. “Even the VIP, the premium class, sitting experience in our airport is not comfortable to the general sitting experience in other airports.” Irukera also called for interlining among domestic airlines, saying it was not profitable doing point to point as an operator. He decried the poor connectivity within the African countries, saying, “It is more expensive travelling within Africa than travelling within Europe, Asia and within United State.” “We have to get to a point where there is survivability for our airlines. We have to get to a point where the airlines can have capacity to grow and survive,” he added. Dr. Gbenga Olowo, President of ART said aviation should be developed beyond the present regime. “We have to think beyond regime. Whoever is there today should know aviation was there before and it would be there tomorrow.” Also speaking, an elder statesman, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi said the air transportation policy must be updated to address issues bothering on decaying facilities, safety and security of air travelers.