In the history of Nigeria, the textile industry has been the country’s largest and oldest manufacturing sub-sector and highest employer of labour. But the once vibrant sector of the Nigerian economy is gradually grinding to a halt. The Federal Government has been making some interventions to restore the industry into its former glory. MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR write. Every developed and developing economy has indicators that determine how far it can thrive. And these indices are used in judging the growth of any given economy. This is primarily based on the producing power of that country. There is no doubt that Nigeria relies more on import at the expense of its local potential economic assets. This regrettable status has led to the closure of many textile industries which were once vibrant industries are facing near extinction. The textile industry particularly attracts serious public debate basically because of the pivotal role it played in stemming the tide of unemployment between late 1950s and early 1990s. The first modern textile industry in Nigeria, the Kaduna Textile Mill, started production in 1956. The primary reason for setting up the mill was to process the cotton being produced at the time, in the northern part of the country. By the 70s and the 80s, the Nigerian textile industry had grown to become the third largest in Africa. Over the years, efforts have been made by various governments to revive the textile industry; but despite government promises to revitalise the sector that holds numerous potentials for the economy, not much has happened. Nigerians who are not aware of the forces that have brought the once flourishing industry to its knees are wondering what might have struck the sector. Before the 1990’s, Kaduna and Kano States were the haven of textile producers in the north. Kaduna, at the time, could boast of about eight textile mills that employed over 10,000 workers. The mills mostly located at the Kakuri Industrial Layout in Kaduna South Local Government Area were pacesetters, as allied industries sprang up with as much as 20,000 auxiliary workers. After the neglect of the popular groundnut pyramids in Kano, the textile industry was the next economic mainstay of the state and the second largest employer of labour in the country. Farmers were encouraged to produce more cotton as they had ready buyers who in turn sold the produce to the textile manufacturing mills. This led to Nigeria becoming the major supplier of good quality wax-resistant textiles popularly called Ankara to the world. Speaking with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Prof. Jonathan Aremu, a consultant with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), said the textile industry needs to up its game from the conventional machine operation to advance technological method of operation. He lauded the effort of the government in the area financial interventions, but however dismissed the notion that lack of funds is responsible for the inactive status of textile companies in the country. According to him, “there is no problem if the government helps out an industry because of its relevance to the country. But in the area of textile industry, the challenge is beyond fund. The question many people are not asking is whether they have the up-to-date technology for their operations. There is no doubt that almost all the textile industries’ equipment or machinery are obsolete. How do you expect a smooth operation with that?” Speaking further Aremu stress the need to check the country’s borders to prevent smuggling of textile materials into the country so as to give Nigerian industries the protection needed to compete in the global market. “Our Customs need to wake up a do the needful. Every now and then, we hear about porous borders. I don’t believe there is anything like porous borders. I think some people are not doing their job enough; hence we are often tricked to believe that the borders are porous. Is it only Nigerian that is a country in the world? If we want the textile industries to be back fully, it can be within a short period of time, if the will power is allowed to take it full course. The intellectual capability of the people who are in this industry and other stakeholders must go beyond what it used to be before the present moribund state of the textile industries,” he explained. On why there has been a drawback in the textile industry, Mrs. Nike Ojuolape, a textile trader in Aswani market in Lagos attributed the dearth to smuggling and incursion of Chinese materials into the Nigerian market. She said Nigeria had many textile industries in operation, especially in the 1980’s. But the decline became real in the mid 90’s. “It is painful that we have this opportunity to create jobs for our teeming youths through this industry and we are paying lip service to it. Hundreds of thousands of people can be absorbed by the textile industry if we do the needful. Some of our people have also compromised in allowing foreign materials to displace our well-known and quality materials. With all the money the government has been pulping into the industry in form of interventions, nothing significant has been achieved,” she said. Sadly, this once cherished national cash cow is now at the verge of collapse, due to a number of factors. One of the factors that have become a thorn in the flesh of the industry has to do with fibre. In his view, a seasoned industrialist, Mr Victor Eburajolo, went the memory lane and blamed the decline of the textile industry on the hasty accession of Nigeria to the WTO in 1995. According to him, in accordance with WTO rules, Nigeria had to remove any protection of the local textile industry, among others. He argued that it would have been better for the country to secure special arrangements with the WTO, such that the local textile industry would be protected until it was surer on its feet. Before the expiration of MFA, the United States introduced the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), an initiative that opened up the American market to African countries of which Nigeria leads. Before the expiration of the MFA, textile products were one of the fastest growing exports to the US under AGOA. However, Chinese exports increased rapidly and proved to be stronger competition than African companies could handle. This indicated the beginning of the dearth of the textile industry in African nations, particularly Nigeria. Cheap exports from China were undermining local textile industries. At the same time, the growth of Chinese exports to the United States was making it almost impossible for African countries to compete with China for the US market. Beyond that, the entry of Nigeria into the WTO in 1995 compounded the woes in the textile industry as it opened the market to cheaper textile imports, predominantly from China, as well as second-hand clothing from the US and Europe. Though there is an existing importation ban on finished textiles to protect domestic manufacturers, smuggling is still widespread. According to the Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association, around 85% of textiles sold in Nigeria are smuggled and the country loses around $325m in potential Value Added Tax revenue annually due to smuggling. Benin Republic, Nigeria’s closest neighbour, appears as trading post for most of these materials just recent action of the Federal Government on rice has revealed. Most of the Malaysian and Chinese second-hand good pass through that country. The border agreement between the Nigerian government and Republic of Benin further compounds the problem of smuggling and impacts negatively on the deteriorating industry. High operating costs and lack of basic infrastructure are a bane of the textile industry. Frequent power failures did serious damage to the system, as many of the factories were shut over the past years. A survey of Nigerian manufacturers by the UN Industrial Development Organisation indicated that most industries in the country barely get electricity up to three days in a week, a development that severely limits production capacity. Presently, there are fewer than 30 textile factories operating in Nigeria, down from 250 in the 80s. Many of these factories are producing under capacity which has also lowered their employment capacities. Gone were the days when almost all the textiles industries were operating between two and three work shifts. Apart from the challenge of power supply, raw materials for production are also crucial. Cotton is the life of the textile industry and a lot of it in the Northern states. Though they didn’t meet textile demands 100 percent, but a negligible percentage were imported from Niger, Cam­eroun, and Central African Repub­lic to make up the balance. Unfortunately, local cultivation of cotton stopped; now there is no significant cotton production in Nigeria anymore and reason was and still is oil. Cotton requires labour to plant, harvest and market, but since oil ushered in very quick money, peo­ple don’t want hard labour any­more. When local source stopped feeding cotton to the industry, the effect was like a stroke that struck a mobile and thriving industry. The country couldn’t get essential raw material to produce because oil money was everywhere. In addressing the dwindling fortunes in the textile industry in the country, the Bank of Industry in August 2010, released N30 billion as grant to the textile industry, as part of the Cotton, Textiles and Garment Industry Revival Scheme passed at the end of 2009. In total, N100 billion was expected to be injected into the industry. As the centre of the Nigerian textile industry, Kaduna textile industry received the lion’s share of N24 billion. Some analysts frown at the passive action of the government to bring the textile industry to its full potential. According to them, Nigeria’s unemployment profile is swelling daily. The Nigerian government is not oblivious of the opportunities inherent in this sector. For a government that continues to promise jobs to its natives at every forum, this vital, yet neglected sector of the Nigerian economy that should be given priority attention is quite appalling. Last year, the cumulative value of textiles and garments imported or smuggled into the country hit $4.2 billion, while $325 million was being lost in annual revenues to government. There is no doubt that the Cotton, Textiles and Garments (CTG) sector remained one of the key sectors currently prioritised in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) as well as the Nigerian Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP) due to its strategic importance to employment generation, wealth creation and industrial development. It is for this reason among other reasons that it has become necessary for the government and stakeholders to build consensus and understanding on a clear revitalisation roadmap for the sustainable growth and development of the CTG sector across the value chain. Also, in December 2012, the Federal Government injected N60 billion into the nation’s textile industry to revitalise the sector. The then Managing Director of the Bank of Industry, Evelyn Oputu, disclosed that another N40 billion would be made available to help arrest major issues of unemployment so as to boost the investment climate and re-industrialise the fallen sector that had affected seventeen million livelihoods. Industry stakeholders have been calling on the Federal Government to urgently tackle issues of insecurity and smuggling threatening to undermine the sector. Last week, Kano State government took a giant step to be a harbinger of the textile revatalisation move with the hosting of Chinese investors by Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje He received one of China’s textile giants, Huafang Company Limited as representatives of the company paid a visit to the statehouse. The visit is a great sign of the pragmatic effort of the government. Prior to the visit, some Kano businessmen were in China to open up discussions with the investors as the deal was sealed to visit the state and establish a factory. Acknowledging the effort made in the direction of restoring the lost steam of the textile industry, Governor Ganduje said: “As part of the economic policies of the federal government under President Muhammadu Buhari, that importation are no longer acceptable, with the sole intention of improving our local producers, we deem it fit to welcome such investors from far-away China, who are here to establish a textile company. “We are thanking our businessmen from Kantin Kwari market, Alhaji Umar Ibrahim Ladiyo and Alhaji Yusuf Na-Kano who have been transacting business with these Chinese people from far-away China. But because of the federal government policy, they wooed the investors to come and establish a befitting and world-class plant here in Kano,” Governor Ganduje said. He described the patriotic initiative of the Kano indigenes as a welcome development that is aimed at boosting the economic base of the state and bringing growth and development for the nation. He added: “After their feasibility study they came to understand that Kano is the biggest market for such materials and gate to Nigeria and other parts of Africa. When established, our people would also have other opportunities for employment.” Setting the tone of operation in the state, Ganduje revealed that discussions have already started, as the investors had inspected an area earmarked for the gigantic project, adding. “They will come back, so that we can finalise all the arrangement for the construction to take place in earnest.” He further explained that the investors would first look for lint to establish a Ginnery that would convert cotton into lint, build a spinning factory that would convert lints into threads, then they would convert the threads into woven materials.” To ensure a smooth take-off, he disclosed that the state government has since discussed with the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, over creating an enabling environment for such investors. “I discussed with the CBN Governor for an enabling environment for that. The Anchor Borrower arrangement in terms of improved seeds, fertiliser, so that cotton producers will produce good cotton of long filaments. That can be useful to this kind of factory that will be coming from China”, the Governor said. The Chairman of the company Mr. Wang Limin, said they are interested in Kano to demonstrate the interest of the organisation to establish a textile industry. According to Limin, “We want to use 20,000 Tonnes of cotton yearly to produce 100 Million Metres of Wrappers/Materials. This is a very gigantic Investment we are bringing to Kano state and Nigeria by extension.” Last week, the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) took a bold step to resuscitate the country’s moribund cotton, textile and garment (CTG) industry by signing two Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) involving critical stakeholders in the entire value chain. The first Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN) and ginning companies, seeks to guarantee steady off-take and processing of cotton lint and cotton seeds while the agreement between the Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association and the armed forces, police, paramilitary Institutions and the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was to facilitate long-term contracts (five years or more) with textile and garment companies to manufacture uniforms in the country for use by various arms of Nigeria’s uniform services. He said the ceremony further represented a landmark event as part of the measures the apex bank along with other stakeholders including NACOTAN, Nigerian Ginners Association, Nigerian Textile Manufacturers and Garments Association, armed forces and uniformed services, had embarked upon in order to revive the sector through ensuring local sourcing of all uniformed services and hospital theatre wears. Emefiele noted that before the advent of the current administration, the Nigerian cotton, textiles and garment sector had faced difficult challenges resulting not only in the closure of over 150 textiles firms but also loss of over two million jobs in the 1990s beginning from the cotton farmers, to the ginneries and textile firms. He said the collapse of the textile industry had also led to loss of jobs as the current workforce stood at less than 20,000 people from about two million in the boom years. The CBN boss said farmers and processors had to deal with low quality seeds, rising operating costs and weak sales due to high energy cost of running factories, smuggling of textile goods, and poor access to finance.