It’s been quite an incredible calendar year in the Premier League. The climax of one of the best title challenges in the league’s history, with Manchester City picking up 98 points – just one more than Liverpool. Liverpool got over that by helping themselves to a sixth Champions League win over Tottenham in Madrid. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Mauricio Pochettino and Unai Emery were sacked by Spurs and Arsenal respectively, while Frank Lampard returned to Chelsea as a manager. You know you’ve had a tough year when your best moment is sacking a manager. With Arsenal languishing in mid-table and playing uninspiring football, Emery was sacked at the end of November after 18 months in charge. Can 2020 be better for Arsenal under Mikel Arteta?  The Premier League is proving to be pretty tough for Aston Villa but they will remember 2019 very fondly after achieving promotion via the playoffs. They triumphed over Frank Lampard’s Derby in the final at Wembley with Anwar El Ghazi and John McGinn scoring the goals in a 2-1 win. It earned the club an estimated £170m as they returned to the top-flight for the first time since 2016. Lampard’s homecoming could have been an option but thrashing Arsenal 4-1 in the Europa League final – preventing them qualifying for the Champions League in the process – must have been very sweet. Sacking Claude Puel and appointing Brendan Rodgers has already proved to be an inspired decision by Leicester. Rodgers has assembled an extremely exciting, young side that look almost certain to return to Champions League football next season. What a 2019 it’s been for Liverpool. Thrashing Barcelona 4-0 in the Champions League semi-final was only trumped by winning the trophy a few weeks later by beating Tottenham 2-0 in Madrid. Jurgen Klopp’s side will just be hoping their highlight of 2020 will be lifting the Premier League trophy. City sealed a consecutive league title, seeing off Liverpool’s challenge by picking up 98 points. They effectively wrapped up the title with a nervy 1-0 win against Leicester in their penultimate game of the season. Vincent Kompany’s screamer with just 20 minutes left gave City the win they needed and meant they only needed to beat Brighton on the final day to win the league. They did just that. It was the game that effectively earned Ole Gunnar Solskjaer the permanent job at United. After losing 2-0 at home in the first-leg, United looked to be out. Romelu Lukaku gave them hope in France with a first-half brace to see United lead 2-1 at half-time. They needed just one more goal and were awarded a controversial penalty in injury-time – which Marcus Rashford stuck away with aplomb. From one side producing a shock win at home to Man City to another. Earlier this season, Norwich surprisingly beat the champions 3-2 at Carrow Road. They raced into a 2-0 lead in less than half an hour but Sergio Aguero’s goal on the stroke of half-time looked set to change the game. But Teemu Pukki scored within five minutes of the restart and Norwich survived a late onslaught after Rodri’s 88th-minute goal. It’s just one of three wins Norwich have picked up this season. What a year for Sheffield United. The Blades fought off Leeds to grab second in the Championship last season to earn automatic promotion to the Premier League. And they’ve started this campaign incredibly as they look to gatecrash the top-six. Like Tottenham, let’s forget about what happened in the final. Watford were 2-0 down to Wolves in the FA Cup semi-final last season as we headed into the final ten minutes. Gerard Deulofeu gave them hope before Troy Deeney’s 94th-minute forced the game into extra-time. Deulofeu then booked Watford’s place in the final to face Man City. The less said about that, the better….