INNOCENT OWEH; SAMUEL OGIDAN; AHMED MUSA ABUJA As Christians all over the globe celebrate Christmas,
marking the birth of Jesus Christ, President Muhamma­du Buhari went
philosophical on Tuesday, assuring Nigeri­ans that his administration was after
their best interest. Buhari spoke through a statement he personally signed and
made available to State House correspondents. He re-echoed his stance at economic diversification, se­curity
sustainability, taming of corruption, among other policies. The president used the 2020 budgetary appropriations which
he recently signed into law to buttress his determina­tion to give Nigerians a
new lease of life. “Having recently signed the 2020 Appropriation Bill into
law, I reiterate my prom­ise during the presentation of the budget proposals be­fore
the National Assembly on October 8, 2019 that we re­main resolutely committed
to the actualisation of our vision of a bright and prosperous future for all
Nigerians,” he said. He equally enjoined Christians to use the period of
Christmas for sober reflec­tion, warning merchants of crime to desist from evil
vices in their own interests. “I felicitate with our Chris­tian brothers and sisters in
particular, and all Nigerians in general, on the joyous oc­casion of Christmas
of the year 2019. “As Christendom com­memorates the birth of Jesus Christ, I
enjoin all Nigerians to imbibe and demonstrate the essence of the season of
love; goodwill among all the ethnic groups in the country; giving and sharing;
strength­ening the bonds of brother­hood and good neighbour­liness; and
focusing on all that binds us together as one united country. I, therefore,
urge our compatriots to shun all actions which negate the spirit of the season. “However, celebrating the spirit and virtues of Christ­mas
need not be a one-day affair, but rather, ought to continue into the New Year. “It is in line with the spirit of Christmas that I call on
all elements whose actions are opposed to what the season represents,
especially, insur­gents, terrorists, armed rob­bers, kidnappers and econom­ic
saboteurs, to retrace their steps and join people of good­will and common
humanity. “If they fail to heed this call, they will meet their end as
the armed forces, security and law-enforcement agen­cies are poised now to con­front
and defeat them. “Our people must make extra efforts to live in peace and
harmony with their neighbours, irrespective of differences. “While it is gladdening to note that incidents of violence
and conflicts have reduced drastically owing to the sev­eral operations
embarked on by our security agencies, we must not let our guards down. “As Christmas indicates good tidings of hope and re­demption,
Nigerians can look forward to a turnaround in the administration’s priority
areas of fighting corruption, providing security, economic diversification, job
creation and infrastructure upgrade. “The 2020 Budget of Sus­tainable Growth and Job Creation
will be rigorously implemented to further deep­en its impact on the generality
of our people. “Let me use this occasion to once more thank the lead­ership
and members of the National Assembly for the speedy consideration and passage
of the 2020 budget proposals. “We are confident that this new era of cordiality and co­operation
between the exec­utive and the legislature will fast-track our collective com­mitment
to giving our people better life and governance. “As we celebrate Christ­mas, let us remember to pray for
members of our armed forces and other security agencies who are making so much
sacrifice to protect us from people of evil intent. We should also extend love
to the families of those whose bread-winners made the ulti­mate sacrifice while
defend­ing their fatherland.” The number one citizen also took out time to sound a note of
caution to motorists during the yuletide. According to him, “Let me appeal to motorists to drive with care this festive season, while road safety and security officials should ensure com­pliance with safety measures to avoid needless accidents and attendant loss of lives and property. Nigerians To Stand For Justice, Resist Dictatorship Prince Uche Secondus, na­tional chairman of the Peoples
Democratic Party (PDP), has charged Nigerians to let the coming of Christ
energise them to stand for justice and resist dictatorship. This is even as the former vice president, Atiku Abuba­kar,
urged Nigerians to allow love and hope be their guiding principle as they mark
the fes­tivities. Secondus, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ike
Abonyi, further charged Nigerians to see the birth of Jesus Christ, the Sav­iour
of mankind as energiser to resist evil and injustice in the land. The PDP boss, in a Christ­mas message to Nigerians, said
that “faith teaches us that Christ came to save us but we must do the will of
his father in heaven to enjoy the benefit.” He also charged Christians to use this period to seek God’s
face so that “he can save this country from the hands of evil ones who are
insensitive to the plight of the suffering masses”. He noted that the political and economic retrogression
currently being faced by this country could only be stemmed by the Master Je­sus
whose birth at Christmas brought hope to humanity. “A yuletide occasion like Christmas provides ample
opportunity for us to seek the Messiah to meet us at the point of our needs and
desires,” he said. In his message to Nigerians, the former vice president and
PDP presidential candidate in the last general election, Atiku, congratulated
the Christian community in Nigeria on the occasion of this year’s Christ­mas
celebrations. Atiku said that Nigerians, notably the Christian commu­nity,
should be thankful to God that the Christmas festivities, heralding the birth
of Jesus Christ had come again. “Love is the conqueror of all things, including the chal­lenges
and tribulations that befell many people during the year and that having come
thus far to celebrate Christ­mas, hope should remain the watchword of the
faithful that the future would be better,” he said. Lawan, Ekweremadu Preach Peace, Love, Tolerance,
Sacrifice Meanwhile, Senate Presi­dent Ahmad Lawan and for­mer deputy
president of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, on Tuesday preached peace, love,
tolerance, and sacrifice. Lawan and Ekweremadu made the call in their goodwill
messages to Christian faithful at Christmas. Felicitating with Nigeri­ans, particularly the Chris­tian
faithful, Lawan charged them not to forget the essence of the season, which is
a re­minder of the birth of Je­sus Christ and the ideals for which he lived. Lawan, in a statement, said: “The birth of Jesus Christ is a
great example of humility. He lived and preached peace, love, tolerance and
self-sacrifice, and left mankind with the hope of eternal joy. “These virtues transcend religion and deserve to be embraced
by all Nigerians es­pecially as we go through the challenges of nation-building
and development.” On his part, Ekweremadu, in a statement by his Media Aide, Uche Anichukwu, called on Nigerians to pursue peace and show love in order to move the nation forward. The lawmaker, who spoke at the annual Christmas out­reach to
widows by his wife, Dr. Nwanneka Ekweremadu, called for the revival of the val­ues
of love and unity in order to move the nation forward. “The core message of Christmas is love as demon­strated by
God, who gave His only begotten son, Jesus Christ, to be born as man for our
salvation. “This season is therefore a call to show unconditional love,
for we cannot claim to love God if we do not show love to our fellow men creat­ed
in the image and likeness of God.” Gbajabiamila, Wase Urge Prayers For Unity, Peace In
Nigeria Speaker, House of Rep­resentatives, Femi Gbaja­biamila, and his
deputy, Ahmed Idris Wase, have urged Nigerians, especially Christian faithful,
to offer special prayers for the con­tinuous unity and peaceful coexistence
among citizens. Gbajabiamila also urged Christians to use the occa­sion for
the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ to pray for the country to over­come
her challenges, includ­ing insecurity in some parts. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and
Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the speaker congratulated Christians for marking this
year’s Christmas. Gbajabiamila said this was a time for sober reflec­tions,
calling on the Chris­tian faithful to imbibe the virtues of Jesus Christ. He said at a time like this, Nigerians should come to­gether
and celebrate with one another as well as pray for their leaders to lead them
well for the good of the coun­try. Similarly, the deputy speaker of the House of Rep­resentatives,
Ahmed Idris Wase, enjoined Christians to emulate the lifestyle of Jesus Christ
who lived and preached love, peace, and harmony among human beings. In a message of felici­tation signed by his Chief Press
Secretary, Umar Mu­hammad Puma, the depu­ty speaker congratulated Christians on
the occasion of Christmas, saying it had provided another opportu­nity for
adherents of the Christian faith to exude love and peace in all their
endeavours. Wase also enjoined Chris­tians not to be tired of pray­ing
for the nation but to remain steadfast and keep trusting in God, who is the
creator of the universe. “As you celebrate the birthday of Jesus Christ, who preached
love, peace and tolerance amongst men, I also felicitate with you and urge you
to emulate the love and humility he exhibited in his days on earth. “I, therefore, encourage you to extend that love be­yond
religious, ethnic, so­cial, and sectional boundar­ies. Let the love with which
he lived radiate in all aspects of your life and strive to use this auspicious
occasion to rekindle love and respect for all,” he said.   “I wish you a Merry Christ­mas and a more