LAGOS – The lawmaker representing Badagry Federal Constituency, Hon. Babatunde Hunpe on Saturday commissioned seven constituency offices in Badagry and supported 350 petty traders with a cash of N20,000. Addressing the crowd that gathered at Apa, Ajara and Iledu in Badagry, Hunpe said that he decided to increase the constituency offices to seven in order to reach constituents from nook and cranny. He said he established two offices in Badagry local government and Badagry west local Council Development Area (LCDA) while three were established in Olorunda LCDA. “The ones in Badagry West are in Apa and Seme, then for Badagry LG, we are in Ajara and Badagry town, while in Olohun LCDA, we are in Iledu, Imeke and Ajido.Just as I promised during my campaign, I want to be nearer to my people and get information from time to time on their welfare.And to make these offices functional, I have appointed 40 people within their communities to be in charge of them, to attend to residents from time to time and get information from them. “Also, today, across the three councils, we have supported almost 350 petty traders with a cash of N20,000 each.I call this support because the traders involved in it are vegetables sellers, fish sellers, peppe sellers and traders that use the money to increase their wares.So, close to 350 people have received financial support for their businesses,” he said. Hunpe said that in order to encourage people that worked for him during campaign, 23 motorcycles would also be given to wards coordinator and LGA coordinator. “We are also encouraging those that worked for us during campaign, my ward coordinators and 3 LGA coordinators.This will enable them to continue the good work they had been doing before,” he said,” he said. The lawmaker said that in addition to the commissioning, he organized a free eye test for residents in the three councils and distribution of eye glasses tagged Digi Bola. “Digi Bola is resurrected here in Badagry after our All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu because of the changes and good governance that he put in Lagos.I have decided to put this programme back in Badagry, residents will undergo eyes test and be given free glasses from time to time.Many residents will go home with free glasses today and this is going on in all our constituency offices simultaneously today,” he said. Hunpe said that he had made a donation of speed boat to Gberefu, a riverine community to ease the transportation of students who had to cross over to Badagry to attend schools. He urged APC leaders in the city to join hands with him for the development of Badagry. According to the lawmaker. it is our unity that will bring more people to join the party, let forget the past and move forward. Hon. Olusegun Onilude, the chairman, Badagry Local Government, urged the beneficiary of finacial support to use the money judiciously so that the lawmaker would be encouraged to do more. The Alapa of APA Kingdom, Oba Adekanmi Oyekan, Possi 3, commended the lawmaker’s contribution to people’s welfare in the town.He appealed to other leaders to emulate the good work of the lawmaker. Mrs Bisi Onala, an APC member in Badagry, said that the city had started enjoying the dividends of democracy as a result of Hunpe contribution to residents, urging the beneficiaries to use the money to change their businesses. Mrs Muinat Ajibola, a fish seller and one of the beneficiaries thanked the lawmaker for his financial support, adding that the money had saved them from the pain of micro finance loan.