Jos – The Plateau state internal Revenue service has generated between January and November this year 2019 N14.4 billion naira there by meeting their target for the year. Arlart Dashe Dasogot , Chairman of the state revenue service made this known in an interview with newsmen  shortly  after  the state joint Revenue meeting with stakeholders held at the Board Headquarters in Jos. According to him, said in November alone , they generated the sum of N826  million short of over a billion naira they have been generating  every month right January  this year till October last month. Dasogot stressed that the Federal ministries and, agencies and Departments did not release what they supposed to pay to the coffers of the state revenue service on time, adding that as soon as the expected releases are made from these agencies, the revenue generation for the month of November will be over 1 billion naira. The state revenue Board  Chairman  added that  the local government councils generation in the state  was still below the expectations of the Board ,but  said  the joint meeting they  held  with Heads of MDAs in the state  was meant  to encourage them to double up their efforts  in generating more funds for the state . He added that they hopeful that the key MDAs that are generating serious funds into the state coffers will have their releases to enable them carry out their activities would be released as at when due. According to him, in 2020 if they jointly implement the state tax law, the revenue generation for the state will be skyrocketed to enable the state government meet up with its plan of action for the people of the state. He said as a service , their budget  for the year  is N12.4 billion, saying as at November  they have already  generated over N 14 billion thereby overshooting  their budget ,promising that  even though the state budget  for internally generated revenue is put at N18 billion . According to him, his board will be sending his staffs to the ministries and agencies in the state to work hand in hand with state government officials in the MDAs to bridge the leakages in revenue generation in the state. The state Revenue Boss tasked all revenue generating agencies in the state to double up their efforts to raise more funds for the state government to be able to meet up with new minimum wage of the state that would soon come up  in the  state.