Lagos – The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, Command said that it issued over 58,000 Visas on Arrival (VoA) to foreigners travelling into the country between January and November this year. The command also declared that it denied 150 departures at the command in three months for inability of the intending travellers to fulfill the requirements. Mr. Abdullahi Usman, the Comptroller, NIS, MMIA Command, disclosed this to aviation journalists in an interaction at the airport. He said that with VoA tourists and persons who were coming into Nigeria didn’t have any course to worry, adding that the VoA was the way to go. He also stated that NIS had also introduced Migrant Information Data Analysis System (MIDAS) in order to capture the data of foreigners residing in the country. The comptroller also stated that the essence of the new system was to accelerate passenger profiling and clearance, adding that NIS would use the system to capture the 10 fingers and images if the tourists were coming into the country for the first time and that subsequently the system would be used to capture only one finger. Usman added that the launch of MIDAS had already been done in Abuja. On those that were refused entry, Usman said that they could not explain their mission abroad, stressing that the command had to counsel them. The MMIA, NIS boss listed some of the innovations that were introduced by the Command to include “No cash payment, as every payment should be made online or electronically, Servicom Unit to ensure that passengers are not only well attended to but to also ensure they are treated like kings and Establishment of anti-corruption unit.” On the Anti-Corruption Unit of the command, Usman said though the service had established it, but was yet to arrest any of its personnel for corruption. Meanwhile, Access Bank Plc, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) had donated and upgraded office equipment at MMIA Command. Speaking shortly after donating the furniture and cabinet, Mr. Victor Etuokwu, the Executive Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank, commended the Nigeria Immigration Service at MMIA Command. He said the bank was prompted to upgrade facilities at NIS offices at the airport because of the efficient management of the Command. He also lauded the Comptroller, Lagos Airport, Abdullahi Musa for the way he was transforming the Command, noting that even the officers and men at the airport are happy because of Musa’s style of leadership.