LAGOS – The alleged refusal by the leadership of Kwara State House of Assembly to swear-in Hon. Abdulraheem Agboola, the lawmaker elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has continue to be a source worry for the members of the PDP in the state. To this end, the Kwara State chapter of the PDP has sought the intervention of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) in the crisis rocking the state House of Assembly. At a press conference on Saturday, the party appealed to the NGF to compel the state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, to follow democratic norms and values in resolving the imbroglio. The state chairman of the PDP, Kola Shittu at the press conference, described the alleged refusal of the state House of Assembly to swear in Agboola as abuse of power and disregard for rule of law, calling on the leader of the NGF, Governor Kayode Fayemi, to intervene. While seeking the intervention of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other stakeholders, Shittu said, “We call on INEC, security agencies, local and international NGOs to call out the governor of Kwara State and the House of Assembly to urgently retract their undemocratic stand and steps, by quickly admitting and allowing democracy and justice to thrive in this instance. A word, they say, is enough for the wise.” He faulted the claim of the chairman, House Committee on Information, Culture and Tourism, Awolola Ayokunle, which said the House was served a court summon joining the Speaker and Clerk to the House, a motion on notice, filed in the Federal High Court by Hassan Abdulazeez, seeking to refrain the House from swearing in Agboola pending determination of the case. He said the reason given by the legislature for not swearing in the PDP lawmaker was amusing and laughable, adding that the Court of Appeal is the final arbiter for all litigations arising from national and state assembly elections. “To this end, the judgment of the Appeal Court declaring Agboola as winner of the Ilorin South constituency election cannot be appealed nor can there be any stay of execution of the court judgment,” he said. Shittu, who said the action of the leadership of the House should be condemned by all, irrespective of political affiliations, added that, it is a violation of court ruling and subversion of democracy. A mild drama had played out at the state House of Assembly on Tuesday, December 10, 2019, when Agboola was locked out by the leadership of the House. This took many by surprise, as the House leadership refused to swear him (Agboola) in after he recently won at the Appeal Court. Agboola had recently won his case at the Appeal Court, thereby unseating Hassan Abdulazeez Oluwanilo, the All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmaker earlier declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The PDP candidate claimed that he was locked out of the Assembly on the order of the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Salihu. Speaking with journalists at the Assembly complex, Agboola said the House had denied him entry since he got his Certificate of Return from INEC on Thursday, December 5th, 2019. According to him, “As we all know, Appeal Court is the last destination for the House of Assembly election petition process. Its ruling has declared me winner. “I started from the tribunal. I have my certificate of return from the INEC national headquarters, Abuja. The INEC in Kwara did the official presentation. However, members of the PDP in the state had continued to express their displeasure at the development, as they recently stormed the Assembly to protest the refusal of leadership of the House to admit Agboola. Hassan Abdulazeez, the APC lawmaker who was sacked by the court, on his part, said the matter of who occupied the seat had not been settled. According to him, the legal battle over the seat has only entered the second stage. He said he had approached the Federal High Court, Ilorin to determine the legality of the ruling of the Court of Appeal, which ordered the INEC to withdraw his Certificate of Return and issue a new one to the second runner up in the March 9, 2019 State Assembly election Agboola of the PDP. In an originating summon, with suit number FHC/IL/CS/157/2019, Hassan said he had joined the PDP candidate, Agboola, the INEC, the Speaker, Kwara state House of Assembly, SalihuYakubu and the Clerk of Kwara state Assembly, Hajia Halima JumaiKperogi as defendants. Hassan premised his argument on the fact that in view of the judgement and order of the Federal High Court, Ilorin Division of February 27, 2019 in suit number FHC/IL/ CS/8/2019; himself (Hassan) being the plaintiff was declared as the lawful and legal candidate of the APC for Ilorin South State Constituency in the said suit against another aspirant of the APC, Sulaiman Abdulsalam. The lawmaker claimed he partook in the election process from the party primary stage and won, up to the general election, consequent upon which he was issued the Certificate of Return by the INEC and sworn in on June 11, 2019 as a legislator in the ninth Kwara Assembly. He said, he was, however, dismayed when another Court ordered INEC to issue the PDP candidate Certificate of Return, as a result of an Appeal Court judgment where he was not even a party in the first place, when a subsisting court judgment/order declaring him the lawful candidate of the APC had not been set aside. Hassan argued further that the case, which occasioned the judgment ordering the INEC to issue Certificate of Return to the PDP candidate, with suit number A/IL/EPT/SH/2/2019 was between Jimoh Raheem Agboola and Sulaiman Sheu Abdulsalam and two others, saying he was not one of them. He claimed that by the virtue of the Judgment and Order of the Federal High Court, Ilorin Division of February 27, 2019, declaring him the lawful and legal candidate of the APC for Ilorin South State Constituency for the March, 2019 election, which was won by his party, APC, he was and remains the duly elected, and member of the Kwara State House of Assembly. Hassan said that in the absence of an Order of a competent court of jurisdiction setting aside the subsisting Order and Judgment of the Federal High Court, Ilorin Division of February 27, 2019 in suit number FHC/ IL/CS/8/2019, pursuant to which he contested, won, given Certificate of Return and subsequently sworn in and inaugurated as a Honourable member of Kwara State House of Assembly, INEC has no vires and cannot issue or cause to be issued to the PDP Candidate, a Certificate of Return in respect of same election for Ilorin South Constituency. He also claimed that the decision of the Court of Appeal, Ilorin Division, delivered on November 12, 2019, in Appeal number CA/IL/ EPT/SH/2/2019, emanating from petition number KW/ST/EPT/ HA/1/2019 to which he was not a party, did not, and cannot affect the mandate presumably given to him. Hassan averred that the Appeal Court judgment, delivered in the PDP’s favour, held that since Suleiman Sheu Abdusalam and the APC had pleaded that Suleiman was not APC’s candidate at the election, the party did not have candidate, without taking into cognisance the High Court judgment and Order, declaring him (Hassan) the lawful and legal candidate of the APC for Ilorin South State Constituency. Despite linking the Gov. AbdulRazaq to the alleged refusal of the House to admit the PDP candidate, the governor’s camp has denied any link to the allegation made by the PDP. When contacted, the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Rafiu Ajakaye explained that the governor is the head of the executive arm of the state and has no control, influence or any power on the legislative arm of government. According to him, “The governor is leader of the executive arm of government. He doesn’t control the House of Assembly because he has no such constitutional mandate.”