LAGOS – Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isal Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has emphasized the need to address the digital gender gap to ensure that women are not left behind in the revolution. The minister, who spoke on Thursday at a stakeholders’ workshop on women connect strategic framework held in Lagos, urged women in Nigeria to be active participants in the global digital technologies as a powerful force for socio-economic development to deliver substantial benefits for both individuals and society. Speaking at the workshop with the theme: “Connecting Women for Growth in the Digital Economy” the Minister represented by the Mr M. F. Istifanus, Permanent Secretary in the ministry observed that previous efforts at women digital inclusion recorded mixed results. However, he expressed optimism that the new initiative will mobilise strategic stakeholders to focus on and make actionable recommendations on removing barriers to women participation in the ICT economy as a means of further boosting ICT contribution to the gross domestic product. He explained that the workshop in line with the priority accorded ICT in the current Economic Blue Print of the Federal Government was meant to redress the digital gender gap to ensure that women in Nigeria are not being left behind. Describing the initiate as apt and in line with the global trend, the Minister said it will revolutionise, provide access to information, finance and networks, saying all of these are necessary for women to reach their full economic potential and create more self-reliant communities. “When women are economically empowered, they invest back into their families and communities, producing a multiplier effect that spurs growth and stability. “To boost development in the ICT industry there is a need to expand the demand base. Although women constitute about 50% of the Nigerian population a considerable number is yet to key into the ICT economy. “Many are unable to have access to products and services as well as literacy thereby creating opportunities for expansion of demand which will boost revenue for ICT industry operators and vendors and consequently for government. He said the Women Connect Strategic Framework has been conceptualised to enable Nigeria benefit from the inclusion of women as consumers, employees and leaders in the ICT ecosystem, saying that the ministry will collaborate with relevant stakeholders to close the digital gender divide and provide women with the necessary skills and tools to participate in the digital literacy, create jobs, and use ICT to address gender imbalance in economic opportunities. Earlier, Mrs Nonye Nwachukwu, Director, Planning, Research and Statistics said the initiative would welcome collective effort by industry, Civil Society, League of Women Society and Academia to move the country forward and upward by agreeing on a common roadmap for women connect.