FELIX IGBEKOYI/MICHAEL OLADAPO ASABA – The over 1,000 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the various camps in Delta State have refused to vacate the camps even when the rains have subsided. Sunday INDEPENDENT investigation revealed that the camp was to officially close on November 29, 2019, but the victims have remained adamant leaving the state government at crossroads on whether to stop supplying food to the camps or close it. The Nurses, Red Cross officials and other workers could not leave since there was no directive over such, culminating to growing tension among victims since there must be compensation which they would take to their various homes. A visit to the camps by Sunday INDEPENDENT revealed that a high number of the displaced persons have vowed not to leave the camps unless they are compensated by the Delta State government as it was done in 2018 when each person was paid N52,000. Coupled with the approaching festive period, there is growing sense of unrest by the victims who feel, it would be unfair to go home empty handed. Also, most determined are the pregnant women who prefer staying back in the camps, understandably to benefit from health packages enjoyed by previous women who had been delivered of their children in the camp. Facts revealed that over 160 women are still pregnant in both camps with not less than 30 deliveries which have been recorded during a space of two months, while an inside source also revealed that the delay in the closing of the camps was as a result of politicians who hijacked the scheme from its actual coordinators. In Ahabam Camp, Sunday INDEPENDENT spoke with an officer of State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Mr. Popoi Itsetimehin, who confirmed the unrest displayed by the victims, saying “the camp ought to have closed before now, but most of the people would tell you that the flood in their places have dried up, but are waiting for government to do whatever they want to do on time.” Expressing optimism towards the ability of the state government to settle the affected parties ranging from workers to displaced persons, he said, “l believe they are putting a good package in place for victims of the flooding because I do not feel government would want them to go back home without any form of succor because this people are worried.” He revealed that the welfare of the victims has not been neglected despite the extended period in the camp, and this claim was confirmed with visible food items and other amenities. “We do not know specifically when the camp is closing but we heard it would close last week, though some said Monday. Though government has made provision till date, if it would still be extended, supplies would still be made,” he said. Likewise, he said critical personnel have remained in camp to cater for the mammoth crowd, especially the pregnant women, to prevent problems during their deliveries. Mr. Theophilus Odowgu, a victim of the flood stated that “we are still waiting to know what the government would give to us as settlement.” Though he appreciated the care and treatment given to them in camp, he pleaded for completion of the goodwill from the state government, saying “We have lost a lot to the flood so we would like government to give us support before we go home.” In her words, Mrs. Stella Samuel, said that people are no longer comfortable with the postponement for them to go back to their flood ravaged homes. The narrative was also the same in Onne Camp, where there was a breath of uncertainty in the camp, due to delayed expectations. While speaking to Sunday INDEPENDENT, Camp Coordinator of Onne Camp, Mr. Eugene Onwenonye, expressed certainty on the readiness of government to settle the flood victims. “With the government pronunciation that the camp would be closed on Friday, we are hoping that it would be so. Government has tried but we are expecting that they will give them a good package before they leave,” he stated. Justifying that there has been no shortage on supplies of food and necessary amenities needed by victims, Mrs. Chinyere Lunju, a seven-month-old pregnant victim from Oko-Anala disclosed that, she would prefer to stay at the camp than go back home with no means of catering for herself during her critical period of childbirth. She said: “It would not be easy to go home with nothing. We believe it would get to us but we have to wait to hear from government because we are following their instructions.” Another victim, Mrs. Kathy Okoroji, who has been in the camp kitchen for the past two months pleaded with the government to consider their plights during the festive period as they aim to repatriate back to their communities. According to her, “government has done very well but we are pleading for a package to help our families as we go back to settle in our communities. Definitely most of us are farmers and we have lost a lot as a result of the flooding, Christmas has come and we need their support.” The state government has been housing hundreds of the IDPs from several communities who were affected by the flooding. At the moment, things could go wrong as some stakeholders insist that it is expected of government that the victims whose means of livelihood have been put on hold for over 60 days should receive a form of succour. Others, however, praised and urged the state government to avoid the impending acrimony and sustain the smooth relationship between the people and government. Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, stated that the government is not ready and will never pay compensation. “Where will the money come from?  If you give them money what of those who do not come to the camp and managed to stay at the flood prone areas? The government provided everything for them, including food for six months. “Some come every evening to the camp for food. Last time government gave them money they went away with all the mistresses, generators and every other thing. This time l told the Governor it would not be business as usual and he agreed with me.” The Chairman, Information Committee on the IDPs, noted that the governor may not give them compensation unlike during the last flood problems, stressing that was not the reason Governor Ifeanyi Okowa used them to get votes, and that the time was far from the elections period and that their population was not enough to perform magic. “The state government has tried its best. Calculate the amount used to buy foams, foods on a daily basis, it runs into millions. We are not talking of other human and material resources in the various camps all over the state,” Aniagwu stated.