ABUJA – Despite pressure that the Federal Government heed to the suffering of Nigerians regarding the closure of borders, President Muhammadu Buhari has said he was not certain of an appropriate date to reopen them. He also gave conditions that until situations around the borders improve they may remain shut. With few months into the closure of Nigeria’s land borders to curb smuggling activities, especially rice, the Federal Government has started counting its gains, saying there was already drastic reduction in the consumption level of fuel. According to the president, the policy has more prospects of saving the country billions of naira on import bills. He said this while receiving a delegation of Katsina State Elders Forum at his country home in Daura. “The country’s domestic fuel consumption has dropped by more than 30 percent, following closure of land borders,” he stated. Buhari also commended the actions taken by the president of Niger Republic, Muhammadou Youssoufou, including the dismissal of officials and a ban on use of the country as a dumping ground for Nigeria-bound smuggled goods. He noted that the measures taken by the president of Niger were helpful and supportive. He also acknowledged the hardship of border communities following the ban on sale of fuel at stations 20 kilometres to the border, a restriction that also saw to the closure of all fuel stations in his native home, Daura. ‘’Farmers must be protected. Dishonesty is deep rooted in the country. Otherwise the border closure would not have been warranted,’’ he said. According to him, the restriction was a temporary measure as the Nigerian Customs Service needed to ascertain outlets involved in real sale of products and those being used for smuggling. President Buhari told the delegation that he intends forging ahead with poverty alleviation schemes and the agricultural and livestock reforms started by the administration in the first term, since the election was behind him and a government now in place. He explained that the reforms, especially those relating to the settlement of herders would take time to accomplish, assuring that his deliberate choice of tested farmers as his past and current ministers of agriculture was informed by the need to carry his vision through. Earlier in his remark, the representative of the chairman of the Elders Forum, Alhaji Aliyu Saulawa, commended the achievements of President Buhari and Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State in curbing the menace of bandits, kidnappers and cattle rustlers. He, however, drew a long list of requests which included a special intervention fund to assist victims of attacks, completion of the 10 megawatts wind power project in the state, setting up of a North-West Development Commission and setting up of Ruga farm settlements. He said the farm settlements were urgently needed. The Elders Forum also made a case for numerous infrastructure projects for the state, as well as for keener Federal Government’s scrutiny of benefits of social investment schemes. President Buhari promised to look at the requests. The president added that his constituency is the whole country, and he is determined to be fair to all, including those that voted him into office and those that did not. FG Assures On Fuel Availability, Security At Christmas Meanwhile, as the yuletide approaches, the Federal Government has assured Nigerians of a hitch-free celebration in terms of fuel availability and security of lives and property. At a meeting to review its level of preparedness to contain the challenges that come with the season, Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kolo Kyari, assured that there was enough supply of petroleum products to take care of the needs of Nigerians throughout the festive season. The meeting was presided over by the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday. The NNPC boss, while giving the assurance, said: “We are here today to take stock of our readiness for the festive period, particularly in terms of supplies and distribution of petroleum products across the country so that this festive period will be enjoyed by Nigerians without any hitch, particularly the Christmas and New Year. “We are very sure today that we have very robust supply plan not just for Christmas but also beyond. We are assuring Nigerians that the NNPC has made adequate arrangement to make adequate supply of petroleum products. If there are any issues, we have come together with other agencies of government to ensure those issues are resolved to ensure Nigerians have a very Merry Christmas this year.” The meeting, which had in attendance the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, saw him giving assurance that a palliative deal had been struck with some contractors to put the 