The Lagos State Chapter of the Independent Petroleum marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) Ejigbo Depot, has sponsored over 200 petroleum Tanker Drivers on a one-day safety awareness at its Headoffice in Ejigbo, Lagos. The lecture at the seminar was delivered by the Lagos Sector Commander of the FRSC, Hyginus U. Omeje represented by the Route Commander Olasehinde Egbontan,   assisted by officials of the NNPC EjigAbo Depot. In his welcome address, Akin Akinrinade, Chairman of IPMAN, Barrister during the safety sensitisation programme, appreciated the sterling contributions of the drivers in the downstream sector, stressing that the training was organized for them, not because the IPMAN doubted their competence, but because learning is a lifelong thing. It is a continuous process. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Road traffic safety refers to the methods and measures used to prevent road users from being killed or seriously injured. In our peculiar case, it refers to methods and measures used to prevent both human and material loss. “We deal in highly volatile products; somebody called them liquid fire. There is no product that our drivers transport on our behalf that is not highly inflammable. This progamme is therefore to improve their capacity to be sane in the course of haulaging our highly inflammable products and at the same time, deliver our products without endangering lives of the populace for which the products are meant” Barrister Akinrinade charged the drivers: By way of safely advice, always avoid drinking at times when you should normally be asleep. Do not drink alcohol when you know you are going to drive. Avoid medications that alter your mind, distracted driving has been identified as the cause of about 25-50 percent of road traffic crashes; avoid anything that could distract you while driving. While delivering the lecture on behalf of the sector Commander, Egbotan dropped the hint that Federal Government, as from January 2020, would roll out some regulations to checkmate all the petroleum tanker drivers nationwide because of the carnage caused by reckless, impatient, dangerous and carefree drivers on the major roads; apart from the safety inspection tanker vehicles would undergo every year. Egbontan charged the drivers not to manage tanker vehicle breaks, desist from using phones while driving, learn defensive management of trucks on the road, avoid naked  wire on trucks, stop and pack when vehicle is leaking fuel. He told them that when on long journey, the drivers should park their trucks and rest after four hours and should not drive over seemingly or negligently that would affect other road users, rending them to take note that they left families at home when embarking on their journeys.