P/Harcourt – Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has called on Kalabari leaders to prevail on the Amanyanabo of Kalabari, King Theophilus J.T. Princewill, to not allow himself be used by external forces to create disunity in the state. Speaking during a solidarity visit by Kalabari people at the Government House, Port Harcourt, Governor Wike expressed regrets that the Amanyanabo of Kalabari deliberately allowed the outgoing Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, to use him to promote divisiveness.
Wike said: “I want to publicly lay a complaint on the action of Amanyanabo of Kalabari. The next time it happens, I will act as a governor.
“The Amanyanabo of Abonnema didn’t do it, he called me on phone when the governor of Bayelsa, Dickson, tried to create problems in Rivers State.”
Governor Wike said the outgoing Bayelsa State governor visited the state without getting in touch with the relevant authorities, under the guise of coming to see Ijaw people.
“He said he was coming to see Ijaw people in Rivers State and he would be hosted by the Amanyanabo of Kalabari and Amanyanabo of Abonnema.
“The Amanyanabo of Abonnema called me and said how can that be?
“The Amanyanabo of Kalabari did not call me. What he did was to roll out drums to receive the Bayelsa State governor,” he said.
The Rivers State governor informed the Kalabari delegation that should the Amanyanabo of Kalabari take such illegal action in future, he would face sanctions.
He said: “That day I would have removed him, but I held myself. What they would do is to go to radio and abuse me, but I am used to insults. I am trying to complain to you people.
“You can see how people are trying to divide a state. A fellow governor would come from somewhere to create division.”
He said the outgoing Bayelsa State governor professed love for Ijaw people in Rivers State but was busy working to take the state’s oil resources in Soku and Kula.
“Already, we have gone back to court in relation to Soku oil wells. This is the man who is claiming Kula oil wells and Soku.
“I have gone back to court and we will reclaim the Soku oil wells for Rivers State. This is the same man you claim loves you and you roll out drums against protocol,” he added.
He said the Amanyanabo of Kalabari would face sanctions if he continued acts of division.
“If any of such things happen again, I will take the necessary action. I will not listen to any further excuse. That is why I am saying this publicly. Tell him to respect constituted authority.
“It is not good for anyone to come and divide Rivers State, because the state is one. It is unfortunate what my colleague did. I handed him over to God and prayed for God to do his will,” he said.
The governor commended the peace initiative of the Amanyanabo of Abonnema and urged other traditional rulers to emulate him.
He said: “I thank the Amanyanabo of Abonnema for his peace initiative. I urge other traditional rulers to emulate him. Work towards peace amongst your people. You cannot live where there is no peace.
“It is impossible to have governance without peace. So, you need peace in your domain.”