Dr Felix Nwosu, a policy analyst and public affairs commentator, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the forensic auditing of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari, among other crucial issues. Excerpt The President recently ordered a forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) as well as announcing a board for the agency. But, the minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, appointed an Interim Management Committee for the same agency. How do you see the ongoing politics in NDDC? The NDDC is for the Niger Delta development. Since it was formed, region has been lagging behind because of cabals, traditional rulers, governors. Ministers, past and present, and militants are part of the NDDC’s problems. The monies being given to the agency do not reflect on the development t of the region. Even the13 % derivation given to the states in Niger Delta is stolen. The Amnesty is politicised. A lot of money being pumped into the NDDC and the Niger Delta are looted. That is why you have a lot of abandoned projects in the region. The setting up of Interim Management Committee side-by-side the NDDC Board is confusing. Does the management committee supersede the board? Because many people, some of them still in position of authority, will not allow proper forensic audit of NDDC. That is why many do not like the interim committee set up by Akpabio. President Muhammadu Buhari recently travelled out of the country for some weeks without transmitting power to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. HIs Chief of Staff took a bill to him in United Kingdom to sign. How do you see this development? The same thing played out during late President Umaru Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan period. It is common among Nigerian leaders. Even in states and local governments, it happens. Governors and local government chairmen do not hand over to their deputies when they travel. Several of them do not even go on vacation, except when they are ill. Those in power only hand over to those they trust. Deputy Governors and Council Vice Chairmen do not have power in Nigeria. President Buhari’s trip was not too long for him to transmit power. Yemi Osinbajo, the vice president, has been representing Buhari at crucial events. But, there are things he cannot do on behalf of the president. This may include signing bills. Osinbajo is not complaining. Osinbajo said that Buhari treats him like a son. So, let people not create problems between them out of selfish interests and fanaticism. Were you surprised by the Supreme Court ruling which favoured President Muhammadu Buhari, rather that Abubakar Atiku, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate? It was not a surprise. Many people, including me, knew that Atiku cannot get victory at the Supreme Court. No presidential candidate ever got victory at the Supreme Court against an incumbent president at the Supreme Court, especially when it concerns President Muhammadu Buhari. Atiku getting victory against Buhari would have been against historical trend. Nigeria might have thought that things had taken proper shape and that democracy had taken roots. Many were in the polling stations and knew who they voted for. So, they felt that Atiku would win. But, they lacked the power to take decisions. They may be right, but they cannot fault the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) or the Supreme Court. INEC at the onset said it is only them that could announce the authentic result. So, whatever information anyone had outside what INEC said, would not be acceptable to the courts. He who pays the piper dictates its tune. So, President Buhari had to win at the Supreme Court. People have been wondering why the Supreme Court gave its ruling in the case with jet speed, while it reserved it reasons for another date. Did that bother you too? Already decisions had been made by the powers-that-be on what they would tell Nigerians. Since the Appeal Court (Tribunal) ruling was in favour of President Buhari, it would have been a waste of time on this case. Wasting more time on the case could be a security risk for the Justices. Allowing the case to continue to run could be a distraction to Buhari and caused more tension in the country. To me, it was good that the Justices gave the ruling without delay to ease the tension in the land. That is why the Supreme Court gave the ruling, even though it did not seem to be a poplar judgment. Now that the Supreme Court has announced its decision in favour of President Buhari, he can now concentrate to give Nigeria democratic dividends, which he could not give in his first term. At this point would you advise Atiku Abubakar to retire from contesting elective position and become a statesman? There is something Atiku said that I love. He said that the Supreme Court decision would not prevent him from doing what he wants for Nigeria. If he still wants to pursue his dream to become president, he and his supporters and stakeholders should return to the drawing board and restrategise. Buhari failed several times before winning at last. If Atiku does not want to contest again, he can sponsor others. He can also remain a statesman. He has been a Vice President. He has money. Atiku and his followers should restrategise so that if he wants to contest again, he can win. Eastern Union, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyawu and Ohanaeze Youth Association, among others have been advocating for Igbo presidency come 2013, some suggesting that PDP and APC should reserve their ticket for the Igbos. What is your take on this? You cannot get something if you do not go for it. Igbo people are just talking without working for it. They are not even talking much. Igbo alone cannot get presidency. They need North and South West. They also need South South. Nigeria has six geo-political zones. Now, it is not just North and South, South is is not one. It comprises South West, South South and South East. The former Eastern Region is not South East as it is today. Eastern Region had been broken. Igbo therefore have to form alliances. They have to agree with the South South. The other issue is: Have Nigerians forgiven Ndigbo for the civil war? Have Ndigbo been reintegrated to get the trust of the whole nation. Apart from when Ndigbo were allowed to produce the Senate President during the time of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, have they been given any important position? Even at that, Ndigbo who held the position allowed themselves to be messed up. Igbo need to work on themselves and learn how to trust themselves. Have Nigerians agreed to accept the Aburi Accord of ‘No Victor, No Vanquished’? Can all ethnic groups accept Igbo without betrayal? The Aburi Accord is the best for Nigeria. South West is now holding positions because of their strong agitation for Yoruba rights and presidential positions. They were not agitating for separation. But, Ndigbo is not united to fight for their political rights. But, many of them are agitating for separatism and Biafra, making it difficult for them to be trusted by the other regions. So, if Igbo want the presidency, they should restrategise and ask for their rights as Nigerians. They have the people. They have technocrats. They are experienced. If they bring all these to governance, Nigeria will be great. Igbo should accept one another and unite as one. Their agitation for presidency is real. Igbo are wide travelers all over the world. With Igbo in Aso Rock, Nigeria will be great and every Nigerians know it. However, the blood of the civil war is still speaking. We need proper reconciliation in Nigeria, which make Ndigbo to be properly accepted and reintegrated. Till date, there is still a lot of hatred against Ndigbo by other ethnic groups. But, no ethnic group should dominate and control power perpetually.