Lagos – The first professional boxing match between undefeated unified WBA (Super), IBF, WBO and IBO heavyweight champion, Anthony Joshua and WBA number five, WBO number 11 and IBF number 14 ranked heavyweight, Andy Ruiz Jr., took place on Saturday, June 1, 2019 at Madison Square Garden in New York City, New York, U.S. Joshua was originally scheduled to face undefeated WBA number two and WBO number three ranked heavyweight, Jarrell Miller, who was replaced by Ruiz Jr. after Miller failed three drug tests. After coming in as an 11–1 underdog, in a shocking upset, Ruiz Jr. won the match via technical knockout in the seventh round, ending Joshua’s undefeated record and becoming the new unified heavyweight champion. The fight is considered one of the biggest upsets in boxing history, drawing comparisons to Mike Tyson versus Buster Douglas in 1990 and Lennox Lewis versus Hasim Rahman in 2001. On Thursday, August 8, 2019, it was announced that Joshua will get his rematch against Ruiz for the WBA (Super), IBF, WBO and IBO heavyweight titles. Now the rematch fight is billed to take place on Saturday, December 7, 2019 in Diriyah, the UNESCO World Heritage site of Al-Turaif, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, after Ruiz claimed he would refuse to fight in the UK, following Dillian Whyte’s failed drugs test. With the stage set for Saturday, Joshua believes that his loss to Ruiz Jnr three months ago will be the making of him. “The Muhammad Alis faced it, the Mike Tysons faced it and now I’m facing it,” Joshua said of losing his three heavyweight world title belts to Ruiz on June 1 in Manhattan. “It’s all part of it. It’s no big deal. It’s about how you come back,” said a noticeably slimmer Joshua. “I have a different challenge in my head. When you’ve walked the road once, you can do it again.” Wise words but the issue for Joshua, who carried the world-weary air of a man who had travelled three continents in three days – on a whirlwind media tour of the Middle East, New York and London – may not be heart and desire, but how he can change the pattern of the fight second time around after being floored four times and stopped inside seven rounds. The pair meets again in a purpose-built stadium for 16,000 in Diriyah on the outskirts of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on December 7 for the International Boxing Federation, World Boxing Association (WBA) and World Boxing Organisation (WBO) titles. Mexican-American Ruiz, bedecked in a sombrero given to him by an adoring fan in New York on Thursday, reiterated his intention to not be a short-lived champion. The 29-year-old became the first Mexican heavyweight champion of the world after his triumph at Madison Square Garden, and denied that he was enjoying the good life and the spoils of victory. The determination to keep hold of the belts, he insisted, had not left him for one day. “Of course I still have that hunger. I just got these belts. You think I want to lose them straight away? Hell, no. I am excited, there’s no fear. It’s just crazy how I made my dreams come true. “It’s going to mean everything to defend the titles. December 7 the belts will be in the air, it’s either me or him. The mindset is that I think Anthony Joshua is trying to take food from my kids. My motivation is my kids and family and if anyone wants to take it away from them I’m willing to die to protect them.” Joshua said: “The man did what he had to do. He was the best option when we looked at it. It was a bump, a loss, but nothing has changed in the way I view him.” There appears to be little animosity between the pair. The Briton has refused to indulge in any underhand comments or sleights at his foe. Joshua is expected to earn close to £60 million for the contest, the most ever offered a heavyweight challenger in history without a belt. “It’s more myself I have to change,” explained Joshua. “I am looking at myself in the mirror and saying I know I’m better than that. Andy is still the same person. He will come game and I’ve got to change some of my bits and bobs. “I was 50 per cent of the way towards getting a win, just got caught. That’s why I said it was a punch from the gods [which knocked him down in the third round]. “I know how to fight. If I had to change everything now, it would be too risky. I haven’t got time to do that and make it new.” Victory, believes Joshua, can form part of his legacy. “Now it’s about how to come back and hopefully the next generation will look at how I came back, how I rebuilt. But many champions like Ali and Tyson have come back from defeats. If I win, no problem. If I lose this fight and stay down, then I’ve got a problem.” Joshua has accepted that the return fight in the desert is as much about redemption as it is claiming back the three word heavyweight title belts he lost in New York five months ago. The Briton who had barely put a foot wrong for eight years – through claiming Olympic super-heavyweight gold to a rapid climb in the professional ranks as a world champion – has had a sobering period in which he now views himself as fighting for both his reputation and respect in Diriyah, Saudi Arabia. “After I took the loss, you start hearing what people really thought,” explained Joshua from his training base at the English Institute of Sport (EIS), Sheffield, last week. “I do feel like we don’t get the respect we deserve, especially in America.” Joshua arrives in the Middle East on Sunday, giving himself a fortnight to acclimatise for his most important scrap thus far, a pivotal moment as important as his mega-showdown with Wladimir Klitschko at Wembley Stadium 2½ years ago. “Before [the defeat by Andy Ruiz] that’s what [people] were asking about: Do you think you’ll be in the No 1 position if you win your next fight. It’s like, why was I even debating that conversation before, trying to prove myself. It was clear to see, I was the man on the table with four of the belts out of the five and I was still debating where my position was in the heavyweight division. “Now I feel like, when I listen to people talk, they don’t really know what went into my last training camp. Even why I handed Ruiz the belts,” he explained, of his willingness to let Mexican-American Ruiz hold the belts in New York on the day of their news conference. “I know the reasons why things happened that week but people just assume. People have always underestimated me – which is a good thing. That’s why it’s good that people don’t really know the full information or situation you have been in behind the scenes.” “We should have had that respect way before. It took 16 fights for me to become a world champion. Compared to the guys everyone is praising today, I just never really looked at it and understood why they would get all the credit after having such a long career and so many fights under the radar. “We came to take over, not to take part. If you take me out of this seat and I was the next heavyweight coming up – Joe Joyce, Daniel Dubois – and I was doing what we did, I’d be thinking, ‘F—– hell, they’re a force to be reckoned with, I have to respect these guys’.” Hurt? No, says Joshua. Just sharpened, and sober. Ready to go again. There was even a little dig at Tyson Fury, over his recent WWE venture in pro wrestling. “I’d never do that,” said Joshua. “We are going to Saudi for our respective crafts. Other people go to Saudi for a pantomime. All I want is my respect in boxing.” In another development, Manny Robles, the trainer of Ruiz, told The Sunday Telegraph he believed Joshua must make all the adjustments when the two fighters meet for the second time in a ring. “The onus will be on Joshua to adjust. Andy’s already used to fighting big guys like Joshua. He’s been fighting them his whole career.” And Ruiz Jr has played down accusations that he has gone soft after enjoying the luxuries of claiming Joshua’s three heavyweight world title belts. Ruiz claimed that the riches that have come his way were “just material things” and that retaining the title remains a deep desire. Dismissing Joshua’s assessment that the third-round knock-down in June was “a lucky shot”, Ruiz said: “Anthony said it was a ‘shot from the gods’ and I agree – it was a shot of the gods because I have been praying and wishing for that opportunity for a long time. “I’m confident about the rematch, but I don’t underestimate any fighter. I know AJ’s going to come stronger and more focused but inside the gym, like Mike Tyson says; everyone has a plan until they get hit. “I’m sure everybody was trying to look for an excuse and reason why he didn’t perform and why he lost. I think it was down to the style. Styles make fights and I’ve been calling AJ out for a while. I knew his style was perfect for me and that’s why I plan to do the same thing.” Ruiz, meanwhile, insisted the necklaces, watches, cars and new million-dollar home he has bought for his family, were “just material stuff”. “Yes, material stuff I always wanted. But what I really want is a legacy, not just 15 minutes of fame. The main thing is that I remain humble, stay disciplined, stay training and continue to be champion.” Meanwhile, Ruiz Jr has vowed to “make history again” come Saturday, December 7. Ruiz Jr, 30, arrived in Saudi Arabia on Tuesday to begin preparations for the ‘Clash. “It feels good. You know I made history in New York and I’ll make history again in Saudi Arabia,” he said. The purpose-built venue for the rematch in Saudi Arabia is close to completion. Work on the 15,000-seat Diriyah Arena only began two months before the fight. “The arena and site are utterly breathtaking. We can’t wait,” said promoter Eddie Hearn. Joshua visited the venue after landing in Saudi Arabia on Saturday. The Diriyah Arena was built by 175 staff and incorporates 295 tonnes of steel. It will take a month to deconstruct after the bout, with 95% of the material being reused to stage other events. Saudi Arabia was chosen to host the match ahead of rival proposals from Cardiff’s Principality Stadium and Dubai. The country hosted British boxer Amir Khan’s win over Billy Dib in July and Callum Smith’s success over George Groves in the World Boxing Super Series final in September 2018. The bout has attracted criticism with human rights organisation Amnesty International highlighting the country’s “abysmal” human rights record. Heavy restrictions on freedom of expression and women’s rights have been raised, as has the use of the death penalty for offences not recognised as crimes under international law. Saudi Arabia has sought to stage sporting and entertainment events in a bid to attract visitors and move away from its oil-dependent economy.