CHIEF BENIN – Mr Yekini Idaiye, a member of the Edo House of Assembly, has paid the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination fees for 137 indigent students in Akoko Edo Constituency 1.
Idaiye presented the payment slips or receipts to the beneficiaries at Ibillo in Akoko Edo Local Government Area of Edo on Saturday.
He said the gesture was part of her contributions to the educational upliftment of indigent students and the poor in his constituency.
“For today’s programme 137 students in our secondary school would be presented with the sum of N18,000 each for their enrolment for the year 2020 WASSCE.
“I decided to embark on this laudable and far-reaching project in fulfillment of my campaign promises to provide a robust and eloquent representation to the people of Akoko Edo Constituency 1.
“Invariably, I sincerely view this occasion as a way of coming back to my people to say thank you for the massive and unprecedented support I received from all the five wards in Akoko Edo constituency 1,” he said.
Idaiye said the criteria for the selection of the awardees for the bursary were based on meritocracy and exemplary behaviour exhibited by the students.
“The best students were chosen in their classes in term of excellent academic performances and moral behaviours. This idea is in order to promote morals, ethos and values in our educational institutions,” he said.
The lawmaker assured that the constituency of road construction, schools, primary health care centre, adding that such projects have been captured in the 2020 budget.
“I have been able to put some laudable projects in our constituency particularly roads construction. It is my utmost prayer that these projects would see the light of the day in the coming years,” he said.
Responding on behalf of the principals of the benefiting students, chairman, All Nigerian Confederation of Principal of Secondary School, Akoko Edo chapter, Mr Rapheal Olorunda, thanked Idaiye for coming to the aid of the students in the constituency.
Olorunda said such encouragement would go a long way in guaranteeing their (students’) future academically.
“I must commend the legislator for his magnanimity. This had brought great relief to the parents of the beneficiaries,” he said. Victoria Okanyinde and Tobi Obanewa, who spoke on behalf of the students, thanked the lawmaker for the gesture and assured him that they would come out with good grades at the examination.