Tony Ezimakor; Samuel Ogidan; Ubong Ukpon The National Assembly on Thursday passed the 2020 budget of N10.594 trillion as against N10.33 trillion presented by President Muhammadu Buhari on October 8. At the upper chamber, the passage followed the consideration and adoption of the report of Senate Committee on Appropriation. Buhari had on October 8, presented the 2020 budget of N10.33 trillion to the joint session of the National Assembly for approval. The budget was accompanied by the Finance Bill which the president also presented to the National Assembly for consideration and passage. Presenting the report of the Appropriation Committee at plenary, committee chairman, Sen. Barau Jibril (APC-Kano), said the committee adopted the 2020-2022 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP) as approved by the National Assembly. He said the committee worked harmoniously with the executive in processing the bill especially in additional revenue projection to fund critical projects. He said the increase in the budget was to allow for interventions in areas like national security, road infrastructure, mines and steel development, health, social needs, among others. Following clause by clause consideration of the report, at the Committee of the Whole, the Senate having resolved back to plenary passed the 2020 Appropriation Bill. The breakdown of the budget is: aggregate expenditure, N10.594 trillion; statutory transfers, N560 billion; debt service, N2.725 trillion; recurrent expenditure, N4.842 trillion; capital expenditure, N2.465 trillion; fiscal deficit, N2.28 trillion and deficit/GDP, 1.52 percent. The lawmakers adopted a daily crude production rate of 2.18 million barrels, as proposed by the executive. It, however, adopted $57 oil benchmark as against the executive proposal of $55. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, thanked his colleagues for their efforts on the budget, saying the success recorded was in conjunction with the House of Representatives. He said the National Assembly has provided the executive what it needed to implement the budget. Lawan expressed hope that the implementation of the budget would be faster, noting that the National Assembly would do well in its oversight functions. He said the National Assembly would ensure that Nigerians get what they desired from government. Similarly, the House of Representatives on Thursday passed the 2020 Appropriation Bill of more than N10.59 trillion. The House passed the bill after considering the report of the Committee on Appropriations presented by the chairman, Muktar Betara (APC-Borno) during the Committee of Supply. The report, however, reflected the total sum of N10,594,362,364,830, indicating an increase of about N260 billion. Presenting the report, Betara said “that the House do consider the report of the Committee on Appropriations on a Bill for an Act to authorise the issue from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation the total sum of N10,594,362,364,830. “Of which N560,470,82,235 is for statutory transfers; N2,725,498,930,000 is for debt service; N4,842,974,600,640 is for recurrent (non-debt) expenditure; while the sum of N2,465,418,006,955 is for contribution to the development fund for capital expenditure for the year ending on December 31, 2020.” The initial amount allocated to statutory transfers was N556.7 billion reflecting an increase of about N3.77 billion, while the initial allocation to debt service was N2.45 trillion, reflecting an increase of about N28 billion. The recurrent (non-debt) expenditure was initially put at N4.88 trillion and reflected a decrease of about N4 million. The House would transmit the Appropriation Bill to the president for assent. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has applauded the early passage of the 2020 budget by the 9th National Assembly, a development the party hoped would return Nigeria to the January – December budget cycle. The party said the development would also allow for proper planning by both government and the private sector, all to the benefit of all Nigerians. A statement by the APC, while commending the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for showing leadership by ensuring the budget is presented early, also hailed both chambers of the National Assembly, the MDAs, and other relevant stakeholders for sacrificing personal interest in the overall interest of the country. The APC said: “The party commends both chambers of the National Assembly – Senate and House of Representatives – for putting national interest before any other interest – a clean departure from the 8th National Assembly which used filibustering, political manipulation, and other devious practices in their failed attempt to sabotage the APC government. “We also commend President Muhammadu Buhari for showing leadership in the prompt submission of the 2020 budget proposals and his clear directive to heads of ministries, departments and agencies to suspend international travels to defend their respective budgets and provide the required cooperation to the National Assembly in order to ensure timely passage of the 2020 budget. “Nigerians will be the ultimate beneficiaries of the early budget passage as it will guarantee full implementation of many of the economic, infrastructural, social investments and other developmental programmes contained in the budget, and which will directly and positively impact on the people. “Again, the early budget passage will allow for proper and better planning for both the government and the private sector. “The entire financial architecture of our country would benefit from this. This includes project financing, contract execution timeline, project implementation and performance monitoring. It will make public procurement predictable, business climate stable, and give confidence to investors. “The party urges the executive and legislature to take full advantage of this new dawn of cordial relations. This will ultimately translate to better governance for the benefit of Nigerians.”