BENIN CITY – Mrs. Betsy Obaseki, Edo State First Lady, has eulogised the sterling qualities of the world first elected black female senator, Princess Franca Afegbua, describing her as a source of pride to the people of the state as well as to women all over the world. She gave the commendation at an event to mark Afegbua’s 76th birthday in Benin City. Mrs. Obaseki said that Afegbua’s adventure into politics as at that time when it was seen as if it was the exclusive right of the male folks, paved way for other women to venture into it. “The Most Distinguished Senator has been a source of pride to the people of Edo State as well as to women all over the world. “She is the first black woman in the world to become a senator and she shattered this ceiling at a time when women’s inclusion in the political process was largely unrecognised in Nigeria. “What the Most Distinguished Senator did was to pave the way for women all around the world to believe it was possible. And like Nelson Mandela would say, “it always seems impossible until it is done.” “Senator did the impossible in 1983 and since then, women all over the world have come to see it possible. The world is at an interesting phase, where women at various levels are standing up and demanding inclusion and diversity. “There is a growing clamour on the right to equal pay for equal work and women all over the world are rising up and demanding a seat at the table in senior leadership positions,” she said. Mrs. Obaseki, while decrying the relegation of women in the nation’s polity, said the celebration of Senator Afegbua should be a source of inspiration to them to vie for any political position of their choice. In his speech, Governor Godwin Obaseki described Afegbua as a role model to men and women the world over whose outstanding achievements and accomplishments had continued to inspire many. The governor, who was represented by his deputy, Philip Shaibu, said Afegbua’s brilliance and indomitable spirit of the quintessential Edo woman, were some of the impeccable qualities that stood her out as she continued to blaze the trail of women achievers.