Sterling Global Oil Resources Limited, at the weekend donated relief materials worth millions of Naira to victims of flood in the Oil producing local Government Areas of Imo State. Presenting the relief materials, Community Relations Officer of the company, Mr. Louis Jideofor explained that the gesture is part of the company’s commitment to assisting their host communities, while reciprocating the state Government’s gesture of ensuring an enabling environment for their operations in the state. He commended the Governor Emeka Ihedioha-led administration in the state for what he described as a responsive and responsible style of leadership, even as he pledged the company’s commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. He further commended the Deputy Governor, Engr. Gerald Irona for his efforts in ensuring peace and cordial relationship between the company, their host community and the state government, pledging the company’s commitment to corporate philanthropy. Materials donated by the company are: 25 bags rice, 15 bags of beans, 100 sachets of Milo, 100 sachets of powdered milk, 20 pieces of Mattress, 20 pieces of bed sheets, among other. Receiving the materials, on behalf of the Government of Imo State, Deputy Governor, Engr. Gerald Irona thanked the company for the gesture, assuring them of Government’s commitment to partnering organizations in the state in the interest of the citizens. The Deputy Governor promised that the materials shall be distributed in the most transparent manner to the actual victims of flood in the state, as a way of reducing their sufferings. “On behalf of His Excellency, the Governor of Imo State, I express our gratitude to Sterling Global Oil Resources Limited. This is a show of love and we shall not forget this gesture.” “Recall that Ohaji/Egbema and Oguta, the two Oil producing Local Government Areas in Imo State were recently ravaged by flood; affecting homes, farmlands and destroying property worth several millions of Naira.” “This is a welcome development. It is a show of love for our people and part of your commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility. In our area of need, you have intervened. I assure you that this will be distributed to the real victims of the flood disaster and it shall be done in the most transparent manner.” “His Excellency, Governor Emeka Ihedioha has directed that a Committee be set up to see to effective distribution of the items.” The Deputy Governor used the occasion to assure the company of the commitment of the administration of Chief Emeka Ihedioha to continue to create enabling environment for businesses to flourish in the state.