ABUJA – Dr Isa Ibrahim Pantami, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy has said Nigeria must out of necessity embrace Open Data Initiative to be able to grow her economy and become globally competitive.
Pantami maintained that for Nigeria to become an integral part of the on-going data revolution, it must embrace Open Data Initiative and improve data literacy of her citizenry, especially now data that is the single most important driver of innovation in the 21st century.
The Minister who spoke on the occasion of South-South zone of the Nigerian Open Data Conference held in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital said in the era when data is driving innovation, it is only imperative for Nigeria to key into the trend to become relevant in the global community.
Pantami, represented by the Director of Planning Research and Statistics in the Ministry, Dr Nonye Nwachukwu said the theme of the South-South zone of the Conference in Uyo, “Public Data Resources: A Way Forward for Digital Economy”, was designed to build capacity of the supply side of the Open Data Initiative and to share information on the Open Data Action Plan.
According to Pantami, ‘‘Data in the 21st century is the single most important driver of innovation, competitiveness and growth, therefore, for Nigeria to become an integral part of data revolution there is the need to embrace Open Data Initiative and improve data literacy of its citizenry, Data is only valuable when it is being used to solve a problem or create opportunities for people.”
“Open Data Initiative involves the putting online non-sensitive government information such as agricultural prices, vehicle registration, data online as a national resource in machine-readable, reusable and accessible formats for economic growth and the advancement of transparency and accountability in the delivery of services”.
He explained that the essence of the forum was to enable Stakeholders to brainstorm on the review and validation of the Open Data Policy Document for approval by the Federal Executive Council (FEC).
He pointed out that the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy had since begun the process of implementing the Open Data Initiative in 2012, in line with the prescripts of the extant National ICT policy and since then considerable progress has been recorded.
To implement the Open Data Nigeria Initiative, Pantami noted that Ministries, Departments and Agencies have an important role to play, including development and operation of MDAs Open Data web pages to interface with central data.gov.ng portal and continuous digitization and uploading of high priority data sets following format that will be agreed by the conference.
The Conference was designed to cover the six geo-political of the country. So far, the Ministry had conducted the Open Data Conference in the South East in Enugu and North West in Kano, where stakeholders enriched the document contributions.