Uyo – For discharging Petroleum products while sales were on,  the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) Eket Field Office has sealed one of the filling stations of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC)  in Uyo. The Operations Controller of DPR in Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Tamunoiminabo Kinsgley-Sundaye made the disclosure in Uyo on Thursday, while on routine surveillance within the capital city. Kingsley-Sundaye said it was disappointing that NNPC filling station could be discharging Petroleum product and at the same time dispensing to motorists – a practice he declared a serious offense and an unsafe act. His words “NNPC filling station were caught some hours ago discharging and at the same time dispensing to the public, the place was crowded with vehicles and buyers which is a serious offense,” he said. The Operations Controller cautioned filling stations to avoid discharging before opening the doors to sell to the public, decrying that filling stations must not be discharging and dispensing at the same time. He explained that the risk involved was enormous, adding that 70 per cent of an accident happening in the filling station was prone to discharging of product at the filling station. “That is why you have to condone the station to discharge. We want to see minimum people who are really concern with discharge operation but surprisingly NNPC does not know simple safety requirements. “We have asked the manager of that station if he knows that is unsafe to discharged fuel and dispensed it at the same time, the manager said he is not aware. “That means NNPC as retail outlets,  their staff were not trained, they will be referred to appropriate trainers that will train the staff and the manager to know the requirements to run filling stations in a safe manner as required by safety standard and regulation,” he said. Reacting to the seal-up, the Station Manager, NNPC Filling Station, Uyo, Mr. Augustine Effiong confessed to the unsafe measure, saying that he was taught to discharge in the morning and evening, but not to discharge in the afternoon. “We were told to discharged in the morning hours,  provided it is not the dispensing line we are discharging to,” he said.