A legal consultant and Senior Partner, Olaniwun Ajayi – LP, Mr. Muyiwa Balogun at the weekend challenged Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) and Judges of the Federal High Court of Nigeria (FHC) to leverage the 2019 Amended AMCON Act and declare AMCON obligors who are holding public office bankrupt. The new 2019 Amended AMCON Act, which was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari earlier in the year provided AMCON with sweeping powers, which is intended to help it recover a huge debt of over N5.4trn owed the corporation by obligors as a result of AMCON intervention in the banking sector. Balogun, who reviewed the new AMCON Act 2019 at a one day Seminar for judges of the Federal High Court (FHC) in Abuja, argued that the only alternative to the recovery challenge was for the judges of the FHC to take the matter as a national assignment and explore all the powers of the new amendment. Balogun emphasised that the judges of the FHC, which inciden
tally is AMCON’s court of first instance should as a matter of fact support the corporation to explore the bankruptcy proceedings as provided by the amendment which he said would at least make it possible for AMCON to rubbish its debtors that are holding public office as persons of no integrity and so could not hold such office. According to him, “Once you are declared bankrupt, you cannot hold public office. Today, we have AMCON debtors making laws for the Federal Republic of Nigeria. AMCON with your support, needs to go to court and declare such individuals bankrupt. “Given the sunset period of AMCON and the fact that the debt we are talking about is the commonwealth of Nigeria, it would not be out of place to take the full advantage of the bankruptcy power among other special powers in the new amendment. ” The concerned lawyer who stated that the bankruptcy proceedings had been explored in other climes to address similar matters argued that there was no reason it should not work in Nigeria. Balogun further painted a gloomy picture of what could further befall the already challenged Nigerian economy, if the debts were not recovered in good time before the sunset period.