Temidayo Akinsuyi;Akinwunmi King;Innocent Oweh;Samuel Ogidan Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, on Wednesday, said it was not within the powers or rights of a newspaper to unilaterally and whimsically change the official title or the designation of the country’s president.
Shehu, who stated this while responding to an editorial published by the Punch on Wednesday in which the paper said it would henceforth refer to the president as Major General, accused the newspaper of playing partisan opposition politics which, according to him, had nothing to do with journalism.
In a series of tweets on his verified twitter handle, @GarShehu, the president’s spokesman, noted that the constitution of Nigeria recognised the president as the official title of the occupant of that office.
“Can the Punch newspapers, in their hubris, address the president as prime minister as it pleases?
“Is it within the paper’s responsibility or power to change the official title of the man who occupies the office of the president?
“Does that mean any newspaper is free to address the Comptroller General of Customs a Colonel rather than his official title?
“The Punch newspaper should separate journalism from partisan politics. What it is embarking upon is purely political and it is designed to play to the gallery and cause confusion.
“Punch Newspaper’s double standards in cuddling some of our past dictators and their open contempt for President Buhari clearly show that the paper has sinister motives for its current curious editorial judgment.
“Its personal hatred for and animus towards President Buhari should not be allowed to becloud its good judgment,” the tweets read in part.
While explaining that the editorial came to the presidency as totally curious and utterly incredible, Shehu said the president’s election twice by Nigerians was not the choice of Punch Newspaper’s editors and owners.
He stated that the president was the two-time electoral choice of Nigerian voters.
Shehu said: “The reported new editorial policy of the Punch Newspapers to address President Muhammadu Buhari as Major General as his official title and refer to his government as a regime instead of administration comes to us as totally curious and utterly incredible.
“The paper claimed that it is changing President Buhari’s official title to General because of his government’s alleged disregard for the rule of law.
“Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd), for that is his title, and he was indeed a Major General, but today retired from that position and now twice democratically elected president of Nigeria – is not the choice of Punch Newspaper’s editors and owners, that is clear.
“He is, however, the two-time electoral choice of the voters of Nigeria, those very people who Punch Newspapers described this morning as ‘lethargic’: a disdaining epithet apportioned to decent, hard-working, everyday Nigerians for not agreeing with, and for not having voted in line with their publication’s editorial and political opinions.
“Punch’s editorial today is, however, entirely in line with holding and exercising the right of free speech and freedom of the press, as my friend and colleague, Femi Adesina, said earlier today.
“Femi, Special Adviser, Media and Publicity said the fact the Punch can insult the president in a front page editorial and they go home to sleep, peacefully, is the best testimony to the prevalence of the freedom of the press and of expression in the country.
“To quote him, ‘rather than being pejorative, addressing President Buhari by his military rank is another testimony to free speech and freedom of the press, which this administration (or regime, if anyone prefers: it is a matter of semantics) has pledged to uphold and preserve.’”
Shehu further explained that in countries where free speech and freedom of the press did not exist, newspapers didn’t publish such articles as the one published by the newspaper.
According to him, “In countries around the world where this right does not exist, newspapers do not publish articles such as the one Punch did today; nor do they get to express political opinions contrary to that of government.
“The exact freedoms Punch claims are missing are self-evident here – in print, on the internet – for all Nigerians and the whole world to see.
“There is nothing wrong with expressing contrary opinions to this government’s – nor being in opposition to the president: this is the right of every Nigerian.
“However, calling for the armed overthrow of the democratically elected administration is a different matter entirely: this, Punch has in no way done – but others who they seek to defend, have.
“There is the difference. Punch: oppose the government as much as you want to. We welcome your contribution to the debate. But we ask you not to throw insults at the good voters of Nigeria for not agreeing to your choice at the last election.
“It is unprecedented and absurd in our recent political history. The Punch never changed President Obasanjo’s title from the President to General, despite the latter’s refusal to comply with a Supreme Court judgment ordering him to release N30 billion of Lagos State local councils funds.
“When General Ibrahim Babangida, who wasn’t democratically elected, assumed the title of President, why didn’t the Punch challenge him or address him by any title it so desired?
“In fact, IBB closed media houses for several months and years, including Punch. But the paper didn’t stop addressing him as President, despite the fact that he wasn’t elected.”
In the same vein, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), on Wednesday said the Punch newspaper had greatly embarrassed decent-thinking Nigerians over its resolve to henceforth address President Muhammadu Buhari as a retired Major-General.
Speaking with Daily Independent, he said the newspaper had finally come out of hiding, having pretended all this while as a secret mole of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Speaking with our correspondent, Sagay said by its action, the Punch had shown utter disrespect to not only President Buhari but also the entire presidency and the sovereignty of Nigeria.
Sagay said: “That is disrespect and discourtesy promoted to the highest level. As far as I am concerned, the Punch has come out of hiding. It has been operating as a mole against this government for a long time. But now, it has finally come out in its true colour.
“To say that a president that was elected by this country does not deserve to be addressed as President because you disagree with something – for me, that is the limit of disrespect not just to the President but also the Presidency and sovereignty of this country.
“I think the Punch people have exposed themselves and they might as well declare themselves as a party organ of the PDP and stop pretending to have any objective attitude to public affairs. It is a shame and a great embarrassment to any decent-thinking Nigerian.”
However, the Pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has commended the courage of the Punch newspaper over its resolve.
Speaking with Daily Independent, Yinka Odumakin, the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary, said the action of the newspaper was a commendable way of registering displeasure against a government and its descent into dictatorship.
Odumakin said: “It is a commendable act of expression of displeasure against the descent of dictatorship in Nigeria.
“It reminds of newspapers leaving their front pages blank to protest Kamuzu Banda’s reign of terror in Malawi.
“It is a medal to the shameless cap on the head of the presidency that it missed the importance of this weighty decision when Femi Adesina said his boss earned the title and can be addressed so.
“It then means that he lied to us when he said he was a born again democrat if he still fancies himself behaving like a General who overthrew a democratically elected government in 1983.”
Similarly, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) described the decision of the Punch as courageous.
The CUPP also accused some organised labour, popular electronic/print media, ethnic associations of being allegedly bribed to keep silent in the face of return to military-like dictatorship, urging those not yet compromised to stand up and condemn Buhari’s growing autocratic actions.
The CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, said: “We view Punch’s designation of Buhari’s government as an autocratic regime as a heroic, patriotic, and pro-people decision which is worthy of commendation by all lovers of democracy.
“The CUPP also views the decision by Punch to henceforth refer to Buhari as a Major General and his government as a regime, an act of courage.
“It is noteworthy that this courageous stand taken by this newspaper is coming at a time when the organised labour, popular electronic/print media and ethnic associations, among others, have opted to be silent in the face of obvious tyranny.”