Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has received one of China’s textile giants, Huafang Company Limited as representatives of the company paid a visit to the state house.
The governor acknowledged the role played by Kano businessmen who were in China to open up discussions with the investors as the deal was sealed to visit the state and establish a factory.
“As part of the economic policies of the federal government under President Muhammadu Buhari, that importation are no longer acceptable, with the sole intention of improving our local producers, we deem it fit to welcome such investors from far-away China, who are here to establish a textile company.
“We are thanking our businessmen from Kantin Kwari market, Alhaji Umar Ibrahim Ladiyo and Alhaji Yusuf Na-Kano who have been transacting business with these Chinese people from far-away China. But because of the federal government policy, they wooed the investors to come and establish a befitting and world-class plant here in Kano,” Governor Ganduje said.
He described the patriotic initiative of the Kano indigenes as a welcome development that is aimed at boosting the economic base of the state and bringing growth and development for the nation.
He added: “After their feasibility study they came to understand that Kano is the biggest market for such materials and gate to Nigeria and other parts of Africa. When established, our people would also have other opportunities for employment.”
Ganduje revealed that discussions have already started, as the investors had inspected an area earmarked for the gigantic project, adding “They will come back, so that we can finalise all the arrangement for the construction to take place in earnest.”
He further explained that the investors would first look for lint to establish a Ginnery that would convert cotton into lint, build a spinning factory that would convert lints into threads, then they would convert the threads into woven materials.”
To ensure a smooth take-off, he reveals that the state government has since discussed with the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, over creating an enabling environment for such investors.
Governor said, “I discussed with the CBN Governor for an enabling environment for that. The Anchor Borrower arrangement in terms of improved seeds, fertiliser, so that cotton producers will produce good cotton of long filaments. That can be useful to this kind of factory that will be coming from China.”
The Chairman of the company Mr Wang Limin, who spoke through Miss Lee, said they are interested in Kano to demonstrate the interest of the organization to establish a textile industry.
“We want to use 20,000 Tonnes of cotton yearly to produce 100 Million Metres of Wrappers/Materials. This is a very gigantic Investment we are bringing to Kano state and Nigeria by extension.”