LAGOS – Following the outcome of the just concluded gubernatorial elections in Kogi and Bayelsa States, which were marred by widespread violence and vote-buying, some Nigerians have accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) under the leadership of Prof. Mahmood Yakubu of diminishing in terms of performance. A cross section of Nigerians, who spoke with Sunday INDEPENDENT, were of the view that, elections so far been conducted by the commission under Prof. Yakubu, were full of flaws and could not be said to be free, fair and credible. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Chairman, Uche Secondus, on Monday expressed fears that his party might not participate in the upcoming gubernatorial elections being planned for Edo and Ondo states in 2020. Secondus, who re-echoed his party’s disappointment in the conduct of the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections, tasked INEC to embark on Electoral Act amendment through the National Assembly, to address most of the challenges in conducting elections in the country. The PDP chairman, who stated this while addressing INEC delegation that was on routine verification exercise at the party’s national headquarters in Abuja, alleged that the agency’s integrity was at stake given the trajectory of elections it had conducted so far in the country. While pointing out that INEC, as presently constituted, has integrity questions, as some of the staffs have compromised their offices, he affirmed that it was time for the commission to submit the necessary amendments to the National Assembly so that an improved legal framework can be put in place for a free and fair election to be achieved. He, however, added that the conduct of the 2019 general elections set Nigeria backwards. Some of the bitter lessons, according to Secondus, were thuggery, killing, militarisation of voting scenes and disruptions of voting process. Others included the alleged INEC involvement in operating the All Progressives Congress (APC) agenda, brigandage, intimidation, coercion and manipulation of results, hijacking of election materials and deployment of military helicopters among others. It was on this premise that the PDP advocated for the legalisation of electronic voting and ban on military participation in elections. The PDP averred that what happened in Osun, Ekiti, Bayelsa and Kogi states were not democratic enough to guarantee future participation in elections by the opposition political parties. A public affairs analyst, Benjamin Onuoha, told Sunday INDEPENDENT that both Bayesla and Kogi elections seemed to be the worst ever conducted by INEC. According to him, “We expect that every election year, INEC would keep improving on its activities, but the reverse seems to be the case. Looking at the elections that had been conducted under the present chairman, Prof. Yakubu, you will agree with me that they were full of flaws. “Before Bayelsa and Kogi elections, look at what happened in Osun State last year when the governorship election was conducted. It was glaring that INEC messed up the election and the outcome was not the true reflection of the people’s choice. “The current INEC under Prof. Yakubu has got nothing to offer this nation in terms of free, fair and credible elections. Many of those observer groups that monitored the Kogi and Bayelsa elections didn’t speak well of the elections. “I don’t know when we want to get things right in this country. Year in, year out, we conduct elections and instead of things to get better every election year, they only get worse. INEC needs to up their game and get things right,” Onuoha said. A non-profit organisation committed to the promotion of democratic governance, human rights and civic engagement, Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement, also known as YIAGA AFRICA, in a statement issued after the Bayelsa and Kogi states’ elections, alleged that there were indications that the Bayelsa results were manipulated. YIAGA AFRICA noted that INEC released results for the Bayelsa governorship election without holding elections in all polling units. The statement was signed by Aisha, Abdullahi, Chair; Ezenwa Nwagwu, Co-Chair, and Cynthia Mbamalu, Project Director (YIAGA AFRICA, Watching the Vote – Bayelsa Observation Mission) While noting that INEC announced 352,552 votes or 71 per cent for the APC and 143,172 or 29 per cent votes for the PDP, the organisation maintained that, “these results are not consistent with the Parallel Vote Tabulation (PVT) estimates of between 62% and 46% for APC and 52% and 37% for PDP. “This suggests that the results were manipulated during the collation process. If the tabulation process had been conducted properly then INEC’s official results would fall within the PVT estimates. “YIAGA AFRICA PVT adopts the Parallel Vote Tabulation (PVT) methodology for election day observation at the polling units. The PVT is a proven and advanced observation methodology that employs well-established statistical principles and utilises sophisticated information technologies. “As stated in YIAGA AFRICA preliminary statement, the PVT is not able to independently verify, regardless of the outcome, who won the Bayelsa gubernatorial election because elections did not occur in 61 of 250, or approximately 24%, of sampled polling units. This reduces the PVT sample and therefore YIAGA AFRICA cannot verify the outcome of the result. “However, the PVT is still able to determine if the collation process was conducted properly and expose manipulation during the collation process. If the official results as announced fall outside of the PVT estimated range, then the results have been manipulated during the collation process. “The official results as announced by INEC for APC and PDP are not consistent with the PVT estimates… INEC announced that APC received 352,552 or 71% of the vote while the PVT estimated range is between 62% and 46% meaning that the largest vote share APC could have received is 62% of the vote. “Similarly, INEC announced that PDP received 143,172 or 29% of the vote while the PVT estimated range is between 52% and 37% meaning that the smallest vote share PDP could have received is 37%,” the statement read. YIAGA AFRICA believed that the two elections as conducted by INEC could not be said to be credible enough, adding that the violence, ballot box snatching, vote-buying, among other irregularities, were proof that the polls were not free and fair. The PDP had last week said the comment by INEC that its card readers were being circumvented, confirmed its position that the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections, as well as the Kogi West Senatorial election were all manipulated and “therefore fraudulent.” PDP said the comment by two INEC commissioners, Festus Okoye and Haruna Mohammed, recently that the card readers were circumvented in elections conducted by the commission did not come to it as a surprise, adding that the commission admitted to the rigging of the elections. A statement by PDP’s spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the party had always held that no matter how much falsehood appears to thrive, the truth will always catch up with it. The statement reads: “The confession by the commission vindicates the position of the PDP and majority of Nigerians that there were manipulations, alterations and circumventing of genuine data captured by the card readers and that actual results transmitted from polling units were tampered with. “The admission also brings to light why INEC had no convincing defence at the tribunal in the face of overwhelming discrepancies in the figures it declared in the presidential poll. “It is instructive to note that the confession by INEC has not only vindicated our party, it has placed a huge burden on the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. “It is indeed unfortunate that INEC can suddenly claim that it has just realised that the card readers have lost steam in our electoral process after they have been used to manipulate voting processes. “Prof. Yakubu is now faced with the burden of how our electoral system has been corrupted by the manipulations in his INEC, all in the bid to serve group, rather than national interest.” Prof. Yakubu had earlier said the commission under his leadership was determined to surpass the records of his predecessor in office, Professor Atahiru Jega. Yakubu said INEC would improve on its feat, which ensured that power was transferred from the ruling to an opposition party to inspire confidence of the international community in the electoral process in Nigeria. He said: “We are aware that in 2015 Nigeria conducted election that is acknowledged and praised around the world. We have been beneficiaries of those elections. Each time we travel on election observation around the world, people turn to us not only to praise the achievement of Nigeria in 2015 but to learn from the experience of Nigeria.” Another public affairs analyst, Olawale Issa, explained that INEC under the chairmanship of Yakubu “has disappointed many of us who thought he would surpass Prof Attahiru Jega’s performance. 2015 general elections had some irregularities and we thought there would be improvements under Prof. Yakubu. But, we were proved wrong. Look at the number of elections that have been upturned by the court this year alone, especially in the National Assembly. “Some Senators and House of Representatives members have been sacked by the court, just because the elections that got them into office were not credible enough and in this case, who do you blame? Who do you hold responsible? The umpire of course and that is INEC. “So, if Prof. Yakubu is going to be the head of our electoral commission for future elections, then he has to up his game and do things rightly, we can’t continue to go this way where our elections would be marred with violence and rigging and INEC would end up announcing a particular party as the winner of such election. If an election that was adjudged to be the freest, fairest and most credible election could be annulled for no reason, then why can’t we annul those ones that we see as not been credible,” Issa said. A former Minister of Transport and member of the Board of Trustee of the PDP, Ebenezer Babatope, in a chat with our correspondent, called on the federal government to stop appointing professors as chairmen of the INEC. Speaking on the backdrop of just-concluded governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, Babatope suggested that the country should rather engage individuals who believe in democracy to lead the electoral body. The PDP chieftain said immediate past INEC chairman, “Prof. Attahiru Jega was better than Professor Mahmood Yakubu,” just as he alleged that the latter is endangering Nigeria’s democracy. “Before the elections, I already predicted that INEC cannot guarantee a free and fair election. My views about the current INEC chairman are terrible. Jega was by far better than Prof. Mahmood Yakubu,” he told Sunday INDEPENDENT in an interview. “We should stop using Professors for elections. Let us make use of people who really believed in democracy and who are honest enough to uphold the truth and allow the people of Nigeria to elect leaders of their choice. “I am not saying all of them are bad, but there are some of them who are perpetrating intellectual fraud to rig elections. As regards Prof Mahmood Yakubu, that man is endangering our democracy,” he added. Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a public affairs analyst and former governorship aspirant in Delta State in an interview with Sunday INDEPENDENT, said the elections in both states were a sham; “it is an unfortunate turn of event of our democratic experience. The elections were marred by violence, ballot snatching and killing in both states and a total disregard for due process by INEC in connivance with the military. “In a scale of one to ten, my assessment would be two over ten. Both elections were characterised by massive rigging and calling of fictitious results, in what can only be described as a broad daylight robbery by the ruthless rigging machinery of the APC-led Federal Government. “Unfortunately, such elections were supervised and conducted by learned university professors who without hesitation and every sense of pleasure penalised student for malpractice in exams and test papers. Yet, same lecturers are the ones supervising over the biggest fraud and malpractices of a nation. What an irony? “It is glaring that INEC has reversed the gains made during the 2015 general elections. It is a glaring truth staring us in the face. Since 2015, elections in Nigeria have been a case of worry to all stakeholders. This is because Nigerians are beginning to lose confidence in both the process and the outcome. 2011 and 2015 witnessed the tremendous progress in our electoral process as most elections conducted within that time frame were adjudged to be free and fair in terms of expectation from both the electorate and the international community. “Those were the elections conducted under Prof. Attahiru Jega who was appointed by former president, Goodluck Jonathan. Unfortunately since 2015 when the current INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu  was appointed, elections conducted so far by INEC under the watchful eyes of the ruling APC have been nothing to write home about. Unfortunately since 2015, it has been a case of steady fall. First it was a case of series of inconclusive elections but now, it is cases of ballot box snatching, vote buying, killings, destructions, maiming and alteration of actual election result,” said Onuesoke. Speaking further, the PDP chieftain explained that it would be a total waste of time to call on President Muhammadu Buhari to adopt the recommendations of the Uwais Report in order to holistically reform the nation’s electoral system. According to him, “This is a president who has refused to sign an amended Electoral Law to pave the way for transparency in our electoral process due to inordinate agenda to perpetuate himself in office beyond 2019.” Comrade Gbenga Soloki, the Executive Director of Centre Against Injustice and Domestic Violence (CAIDOV), a non-governmental organization, was of the view that the only way to get things right with future elections, is for INEC to allow e-voting, which according to him has been successful in several countries. “We don’t always need people to come out on election days to cast their votes. People should be able to cast their votes from the comfort of their homes. Even with internet enabled mobile phones, people can easily vote. INEC has never lived up to expectations. These last elections were marred with too many irregularities and the only way we can avoid some of these things is to go electronic,” Soloki explained. The ruling APC on its part believed that the major reform needed in the Nigerian political environment is the reorientation of the leadership of the PDP. The National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who stated this in a statement, was reacting to an allegation by PDP National Chairman, that the INEC connived with the APC to rig elections. Issa-Onilu said the PDP still suffers from the new way of political direction in the country, in which manipulation of electoral processes and the use of brute force no longer have a place. He, however, admonished the main opposition party to rebrand itself to conform to new ways, forge a new political ideology and direction, noting that Nigerians will continue to reject the party until it finds a new identity and do away with its alleged “underhand way of doing things. “The most important reform before the leadership of PDP is to change their ways. By now they should have realised that their old underhand political methods no longer work. PDP should adjust to the reality of an emerging political environment where manipulation, intimidation, and brigandage are becoming unhelpful to any political party. “While at it, they should remember to find a political direction with clear and purposeful ideology that can benefit our country. Until they achieve this, no amount of electoral reform can cure PDP of its malady. Nigerians would continue to reject them until they do away with their odious ways,” Issa-Onilu said.