The murder of a doctor in Beijing has overshadowed the passage of a law designed to improve basic health care services in China and has put a spotlight on the problems the law is trying to fix. The fatal stabbing was the latest in a string of attacks on medical staff by angry patients and their relatives. Tensions are being fueled by a lack of resources and limited services at many medical facilities. In the latest incident, the doctor Yang Wen was stabbed in the neck on Christmas Eve following a row with the relatives of a 95-year-old stroke victim at the Civil Aviation General Hospital in Beijing. She died the following day. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Doctors said the patient’s family had dismissed repeated suggestions that the woman should undergo additional checks after she suffered a stroke, according to state television. But they became angry when the patient’s condition continued to deteriorate and questioned if she was being treated properly. The woman’s son, Sun Wenbin, has since been arrested on suspicion of intentional homicide. Despite an outpouring of public anger over the attack and public sympathy for Yang, the patient’s family reportedly showed little remorse. They have transferred the patient to another hospital. The tragedy overshadowed the passage of the country’s first fundamental and comprehensive law on basic medical and health care services, which was approved on Saturday and will take effect on June 1, 2020. The new legislation is intended to empower grass-roots medical institutions by channeling more resources to them. It mandates that the government should give priority to developing community-level health care facilities and better support medical workers in local communities and remote areas. The law also emphasizes the importance of the safety and dignity of medical staff, saying they are entitled to legal protection and should not be threatened or harmed. A 2018 report from the Chinese Medical Doctor Association found that 66% of doctors in China have reported conflicts with patients, with more than 30% experiencing violence. According to an analysis from Renmin University’s journalism school in March, the media has published 295 reports of attacks on medical staff over the past 10 years. In total, 362 people were injured in these attacks and 24 killed. 