Warri – The leadership tussle in the oil rich Evwreni community in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State has been laid to rest following a mutual agreement by all parties and stakeholders involved to swear in Mr. Bright Adjogbe and members of his team as president general and executive of the Evwreni Clan Improvement Union (ECIU). According to the peace agreement signed by Adjogbe, Chief Collins Udi, presidents and secretaries of ECIU branches and other stakeholders, and read by the presiding chairman of the Peace Committee, General Oviemo Ovadje (Retd), who was represented by his deputy, Major John Ovwufeti, Adjogbe and his team would lead the community for three years, at the expiration of which, a conference would be called to swear in Chief Collins Udi and his team as president general and executive. It held that election into the ECIU posts would not be conducted until after six years when both factions would have completed their respective tenures. Speaking shortly after his oath of office as president general, Adjogbe thanked the Peace Committee and the people of Evwreni clan for the peaceful manner in which the issue was resolved. He said, “Before now, people were thinking drums of war will be rolled out and there will be crisis, but right here, with all differences resolved, my opponent and I are here rejoicing together for the sake of one goal, which is the peace and development of Evwreni. I am promising to use this opportunity given to me by the Evwreni people to bring notable change to the community that will make my people to be overwhelmed.” In his response to the peace accord, Udi said he was not desperate about holding any position, adding that his priority has always been the interest of the community than personal. He said, “The issue here is that I’m not going to rule myself. As I said from the beginning, whatever the community agrees, I was going to follow and since the community, the elders and stakeholders have said let it go this way, I just have to follow. My advice to the new executive is that they should ensure they carry everybody along; there should be no discrimination. For me, I will continue to support the community and continue to do the things I used to do for the community,” he added.