ADO-EKITI – For the second time in his political career, former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, and mem­ber of the Nigeria’s main opposi­tion party, the Peoples Democrat­ic Party (PDP), went down on his knees to apologise to whoever he might have offended in the party during his four-year rule as the state’s Chief Executive. Fayose made it clear at the meeting that he would not take all the blame for the party’s woes as he was also offended by some stake­holders. Before completing his ten­ure in 2018, Fayose had lost many of his political allies and foot soldiers. Prominent among them is Senator Abio­dun Olujimi, former Minis­ter, Dayo Adeyeye, former Deputy Governor, Dr Sikiru Tae-Lawal and Ambassador Dare Bejide. Others were former Senate Chief Whip, Clement Awoyelu. Among Fayose’s aggrieved foot soldiers were, Mrs To­sin Aluko Fayose’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice and Director Gen­eral, Due Process Depart­ment, Barrister Owoseni Ajayi and Segun Akinwumi respectively. Several PDP lawmakers, who faced repeated persecu­tion by Fayose, either left the party or become opposition within the party. Olujimi’s loyalists suffered this fate. While some of them were aggrieved over of lack of pa­tronage, others picked quar­rel with the former governor for allegedly undermining their influence in the party. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the romance between Adeyeye and Fayise turned sour when failed to honour the pre-2018 agree­ment allegedly reached in the presence of then pres­ident and party’s National Leader, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. Adeyeye, before the re­turn of Fayose to PDP, was adjudged to be the party’s most formidable governor­ship aspirant. Adeyeye and 14 others slugged it out with Fayose, who emerged the party’s flag bearer in a con­troversial primary. The post PDP primary deal reached at Jonathan’s instance earned Adeyeye a ministerial appointment. It was agreed that Fayose, on completing his second term, would hand over to Adey­eye. Fayose alluded to the deal when he addressed Ad­eyeye’s supporters, and ac­knowledged that his victory would not have been possible without Adeyeye. To further demonstrate his commitment to the deal, Fayose promised not to stand any elective position or dabble into the processes of selecting his successor. Thus, he chose a non am­bitious deputy not to jeop­ardise chances of his former co-contestants. Fayose told the enthusiastic crowd that he and his deputy would quit power same day. However, the promise was short lived when Fay­ose suddenly announced Professor Kolapo Olusola as his anointed successor. Hell was let loose and many PDP stakeholders left, while oth­ers like Adeyeye and Olujimi vowed to stay behind and challenge what they saw as Fayose’s unwholesome polit­ical manoeuvring. Although, Olusola even­tually won the primary, Ad­eyeye and Olujimi almost turned the game against the governor. In the end, Adey­eye dumped PDP and was offered a Senatorial Ticket by the All Progressives Con­gress (APC). Olujimi, who was Senator, won return ticket in PDP, which did not go down well Fayose who launched an open campaign against her. Fayose, in a statewide broadcast, urged the people of Ekiti to vote all PDP can­didates, except Olujimi. But, the rest is history as Olujimi returned to Senate via an Appeal Court verdict. Former Ekiti Attorney General Ajayi’s grouse against Fayose was on two grounds. The ex-Fayose’s personal lawyer lost his friendship with Fayose af­ter indicating interest in the governorship seat. Being the most senior and dedicated lieutenant, Ajayi believed he stood the best chance of clinching the PDP ticket. But, he was disappointment. Ajayi was also saddened that Fayose let him down when he needed his support to earn the prestigious rank of Senior Advocate of Nige­ria (SAN). It was sad that Ajayi received the news of his sack as the Commission­er for Justice on his way to Abuja for interview on his SANship ambition. Also, former Deputy Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Segun Adewumi, dismissed Fay­ose’s peace move, saying it was placed with poison. Even, the current PDP State Executive Council installed by Fayose might have fallen out with him. The officials did not honour invitation for the peace meeting. Fayose, however, attribut­ed their grievances to fail­ure to endorse their sit-tight agenda. Addressing PDP supporters and leaders at his Afao-Ekiti residence, Fay­ose admitted that he offend­ed the party, but asked for forgiveness, citing the case of Olujimi and other party leaders as clear mistake on his part. He said: “If you see Olu­jimi, Duro and Oguntuase, tell them not to be angry. We have to support this party so we can all benefit.” The meeting was held in defi­ance to the directive of the PDP state chapter calling for seven-day mourning of them who was killed during the last Saturday council poll. Fayose also apologised to other aggrieved leaders like former Senator representing Ekiti North, Duro Faseyi. He urged his supporters to always honour invitations extended to them by any PDP leader in the state, say­ing this was not the time to fight. Fayose, who used the meet­ing to officially congratulate Senator Biodun Olujimi on her recent victory as the lawmaker representing Ek­iti South Senatorial District, noted that she remained a leader in the party in the state. While explaining that cre­ating different groups with­in the party would not be the best option, Fayose assured that all issues and tenden­cies would be resolved for the party to reclaim the state from the APC in future elec­tions. He regretted the violence and alleged electoral mal­practices that marred the last Saturday’s local gov­ernment election , saying he warned the leadership of PDP in the state not partic­ipate in the poll for obvious reasons. “Everybody should come back to the party. I am open to reconciliation. If Senator Biodun Olujimi call you for meeting tomorrow, go there and listen to her. All of us are leaders. Don’t let us fac­tionalise this party. I am congratulating her (Senator Olujimi) and I don’t have any issue with her and I am sor­ry for what happened in the past.” In his her immediate re­action to the Fayose’s peace move, Olujimi faulted the style adopted by the ex- gov­ernor. According to the Sen­ator, the timing and venue of the meeting was wrong. She said: “You can’t come and start any reconciliation now, because, you never wished this party well. How can you hold such a meeting in your private residence? And this is some of things we com­plained about. PDP is not a private property of anybody. “Our party had just de­clared a seven-day of mourn­ing in honour of the repose of one of us killed during the last Saturday’s local government election. I see no reason any supposed loy­al party should flout this or­der,” Olujimi said. Although Olujimi hadn’t disclosed her next line of action it appears the ag­grieved are prepared to go to a full scale battle with Fayose. Some stakeholders, however, believed that the ex-governor was also seek­ing relevance ahead of the state congress of the party in order to install his stoog­es. Fayose was Ekiti State governor, first between 2003 and 2007 and later 2014 and 2018. His first tenure as well as the second were full of crises. This was primarily attributed to his alleged un­orthodox leadership style which initially pitted him against the elites and later some of his foot soldiers and supporters. He completed his second term on October 16, 2018. Due to the loss of Professor Olusola, Fayose’s anoint­ed candidate, Dr Kayode Fayemi, who ran under the platform of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC) took over the rein of governance for his second term. Much is not known about Fayose’s political activities since he left office over a year ago. This generated cu­riosity by his followers hav­ing known him to be critical of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. He had been a guest to the Eco­nomic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), an­swering charges on alleged financial impropriety. On two occasions, Fayose was sighted in Ado-Ekiti, but was allegedly given cold receptions. The first was when tried to attend a buri­al programme at a Church in Ado-Ekit. He was report­edly molested by certain agents of the ruling party. The second time was when he stormed the Ekiti State House of Assembly, after he was indicted over alleged misappropriation of the lo­cal government funds. Shortly after the Assem­bly premises Fayose claimed that certain agents of gov­ernment attempted to attack his convoy. 