LAGOS – Pastor Enoch Adeboye, General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), has called on Nigerians to seek the face of God in prayers if they desire a turnaround in their present situation. Adeboye, who spoke on Friday night during the just-concluded 22nd Holy Ghost Congress, with the theme, ‘The Great Turnaround’, held at the church’s KM 3 mega auditorium in Shimawa, Ogun State, however, assured that Nigeria’s days of barrenness would soon be over. “Your turnaround begins the moment you say ‘enough is enough’, the moment you decide no more fruitless efforts. Your testimony will come when you call on God for prayer…Be of good comfort, your day of barrenness will soon be over,” he stated. While leading the prayer for the nation, Pastor Folu Adeboye, wife of the General Overseer, called on Nigerians to seek mercy from God and turn from wickedness, noting that efforts to move Nigeria forward would be futile if the door of mercy was shut against it. Earlier, Rev. Joe Olaiya of Living Faith Foundation stressed that poverty and depression would continue if individuals refused to walk in line with God’s instructions. Charging Nigerians on genuine repentance and spirituality, he maintained that disobedience would pave way for self destruction. Prior to Olaiya’ charge, Bamidele Sturdivant, Senior Pastor of Faith United Ministries, who spoke on ‘Set Time’, declared that God was set to establish Nigeria on the path of righteousness. Also at the service, Mrs. Rachael Dickson, wife of Bayelsa State governor, was part of the testifiers. She testified of deliverance from 15 years of barrenness after which she got the miracle of quadruplets, three girls and a boy after being prayed for by Pastor Adeboye during his visit to Bayelsa. Prof. Yemi Osibanjo, Nigeria’s Vice President, his wife Mrs. Dolapo; Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State governor, his wife Dr. Ibijoke; Dapo Abiodun, Ogun State governor; Udom Emmanuel, Governor of Akwa Ibom State; Mrs. Betsy Obaseki, wife of Edo State governor and Mrs. Bola Obasanjo, wife of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, former Nigerian president, were part of the dignitaries at the programme.