President Muhammadu Buhari’s apathy towards the challenges being faced the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, is giving the Comrade leader goose pimples and sleepless nights. Sunday Independent gathered that efforts at resolving the festering crisis of confidence between majority governors of the ruling APC and Oshiomhole appear to have hit the rocks. Reliable sources had it President Buhari has remained non-committal to both warring sides even as the APC governors led by a governor from the North West have remained unwavering in their demand for the resignation of Oshiomhole as the National Chairman of the party. The APC governors are bitter that Oshiomhole is running the affairs of the party with his personal aides from his private residence rather than the national headquarters.  This development came as fresh facts emerged that the Ondo State deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi, is allegedly, largely responsible for the frosty relationship between Oshiomhole and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. It was gathered that President Buhari’s indifference in the tango between the APC governors and Oshiomhole made the National Chairman to embark on the lobby trip he made to Jos, the Plateau State capital where the Progressive Governors’ Forum held a one-day retreat last week. Buhari who was expected at the retreat was however, represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, just as Oshiomhole was said to have made a surprise appearance at the event. Strangely, only five of the APC governors and about four deputies attended the retreat. It could not be independently confirmed; but a Presidency source said Oshiomhole’s trip to Jos was at the behest of an advice by a close ally of the president who encouraged him to go to Jos to lobby the governors. “They are trying hard to suppress the crisis but it appears to be defying all efforts because of the hard stance of the governors. Not only that, no one knows the thinking of the president as regards the crisis between the governors and Comrade,” said a source. According to the source, “when it became clear that as usual, Baba (Buhari) was unlikely to intervene and rein in the governors, a concerned elder advised the National Chairman to undertake the trip to Jos to placate the governors but most of those with hard posture did not go for the retreat; maybe they were trying to avoid being lobbied, no one knows. “From what has been observed, most of the governors are not happy that the National Chairman is running the affairs of the party from his private residence rather than the office; the most painful as they have expressed is the fact that Comrade runs the show with his boys without recourse to most of us in the NWC.” According to Sunday Independent investigations, one of the conditions the governors are likely to table is that the National Chairman should hands off the screening of governorship aspirants. This fear, the source said, was expressed by all the governors because it was felt that the National Chairman is likely to use the powers as chairman of governorship screening to disqualify perceived enemies “The fact that the National Chairman presides over the screening of governorship aspirants means that he has a game plan to disqualify some persons. That practice is unknown to our constitution and governors are apprehensive that once he succeeds in doing that in Edo as planned, he would be emboldened to proceed further in illegality. “So the governors are all together; forget the media churns of split because some of them are either running within his tenure or are likely to prop successors, so they are not ready to take chances. “The fear is more in the south where his targets are Edo and Ondo and the governors are ready for him; for those of us in the NWC, we can’t say much because it is a dicey game going on right now. According to the NWC member who was among those that visited Governor Akeredolu in Abuja about three weeks ago, apart from the frosty relationship between Oshiomhole and the Ondo State Governor arising from the intrigues that forced Odigie Oyegun out of office, the National Chairman is hyping the crisis that arose from the choice of candidates for the last National Assembly election. Governor Akeredolu was alleged to have sponsored some candidates for the National Assembly election on the platform of the Action Alliance (AA) after the national headquarters rejected some of his preferred candidates for the poll. The governor has however, denied the allegation which borders on anti-party. “For instance, while Akeredolu wanted constitutional lawyer, Tunji Abayomi to replace Senator Ajayi Boroffice as candidate, the national leadership went for the senator for Ondo North. In the South senatorial district, an unpopular incumbent then, Yele Omogunwa was to be replaced by one Lucky Ayedatiwa who was the governor’s choice. But that did not receive the blessing of the deputy governor who happens to hail from that zone. “Even in the two Akoko federal constituencies, the governor’s choices were dropped. So, unknowingly, the governor who appears to be carefree about political intrigues relied on his deputy as a liaison between him and the national headquarters; that was the opportunity the deputy used to nail the governor by advising him to be rebellious so as to pit him against the national leadership and discredit him. “We just discovered that while the governor relied on his deputy, the man had a game plan to sell an unpopular and dangerous option to him. Initially, the national leadership was only interested in returning Senators Boroffice and Alasoadura; it was the deputy governor that insisted on a particular candidate other than Ayedatiwa; and when that failed, he brought in the idea of AA because he knew the governor had already fallen into the trap in the North senatorial district. Efforts to speak with Oshiomhole, Akeredolu and Ajayi, failed as at press time.