Dr. Tunde Oyemade, a Public Affairs Analyst, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the alleged attempts by Aso Rock cabals to whittle down the powers of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the ongoing crisis in  the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the issue of Igbo presidency come 2013 and other crucial issues. Excerpts: How do you see the alleged moves by Aso Rock cabals to reduce the influence of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and allege to force him to resign? They are all playing politics. Reuben Abati, who worked with former President Goodluck Jonathan, said there is a demon that controls the Aso Rock seat of power. It is not surprising people in Aso Rock fight among themselves, not because of religion or ethnicity, but due to selfish interests. That is why I like what Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State said recently that he would not like to be called His Excellency, but simply Mr. Governor, and that his work should speak for him. He spoke like a man who does not have selfish interest. All those in government are selfish and pursue selfish agenda. That is why they are causing confusion. There is nothing excellent about those in the seat of power. They are really controlled by demons, which cause confusion among them due to their selfish interests, instead of giving Nigerians good governance. The people who are in charge of Aso Rock are really reducing the powers of Osinbajo and he is playing along with them, leaving the matter to public opinion. That is the best he could do in the circumstance. But, if I were him, I would have bowed out and resigned. But, does any of those in power have integrity to be able to do that? Most of them have soiled their hands. Look at what is happening to Donald Trump. We are watching. Can we have such an open system in Nigeria? Nigeria is ruled by falsehood. When people in power say something, you have to check it again and again. Would you agree that the clash of interest between Vice President Osinbajo and his godfather, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, over the 2023 presidency could be behind his travails in Aso Rock which has led to the sack of 35 of his aides? It amuses me that people are talking about 2023 when they do not know if they can live till then. What they should be doing now in Aso Rock and among those in the corridors of power is to make projections for the country in technology, industrialisation, economy and not who should rule in 2023. That is why I said they have selfish interests and that we are living in falsehood. What are Osinbajo and Tinubu fighting for? Let them give constructive opinions, suggestions and plans for the current government to succeed. Why should there be infighting when people are dying of hunger and poverty? There is no Middle Class in Nigeria any more, but the rich and the poor. People are being given money to prepare themselves for 2023 presidency. Such money will be enough to manage a state. I hate to hear that Tinubu and Osinbajo are struggling for 2023 presidency when people are hungry. No condition is permanent. Nobody knows tomorrow. Leaders should be careful. Many of them are struggling with their health. What is your take on the Hate Speech Bill currently before the Senate? They want to muzzle everybody not to say anything. The Federal Government has bastardised the judiciary, which is the last hope of the common man. We thank God that the judiciary seems to be coming up again. Both the executive and the legislature are corrupt. We have enough laws to guard against hate speech. They should not gag everybody. They are trying to create fears among Nigerians. Let the government apply existing laws. Public opinion is against the Hate Speech Bill. We are in a democracy. The National Assembly should throw out the Hate Speech Bill. It is against the tenets of democracy. There are allegations that President Muhammadu Buhari might be planning to go for third term in office after the expiration of his second term in 2023. How do you see the development? He has already said he will not go for a third term. I believe him, although politicians can change at any time. The person who went to court to seek the abrogation of the section of the constitution which limited the period a president or governor can stay in office to two terms cannot succeed. The judiciary is recovering from the gag of the executive. Former President Goodluck Jonathan convoked a National Conference and they have not done anything about it. One would have expected this government to carry on from where Jonathan stopped. Government is a continuum. Those working for Buhari’s third term are confusionists. They should stop their actions. The Zamfara State House of Assembly recently passed a bill stopping payment of pensions to governors and deputy governors. How do you see the development? Do you think this can be adopted by all the states and the Federal Government? What the Zamfara State House of Assembly did is very good and should be replicated by all the states’ Houses of Assembly and the National Assembly. All the governors and their deputies are very rich. What are they doing with their security votes? All of them are just looting the treasury, playing with the resources of the nation. They mismanaged the economy of the nation and still want to continue after they have left power. All Houses of Assembly and the National Assembly should pass such bill. But, I doubt if they will do so. Nigerians have been complaining of the huge salaries and allowances of legislators and cabinet members. Have they done anything about it? People are complaining of the cost of governance and the type of system we are running. Have they done anything about it? Nothing! How do you see the controversies in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) over the appointment of a new board and an Interim Management Committee when President Muhmmadu Buhari has ordered the forensic audit of the agency? They are playing on the intelligence of the people. They know what they are doing. All the Niger Delta stakeholders do not want Godswill Akpabio, the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, due to his alleged past actions and those of others in the NDDC. Why did Buhari put him in a ministry that will control the NDDC? There seems to be an ulterior motive behind his position. Why did they not post him to another ministry? All the talks about the NDDC are deceitful. They like to create crises, but they will later go behind to wine and dine with each other. The NDDC was created for the development of the oil bearing areas of the country, which are mostly in the Niger Delta. But, those who had been in charge did not develop the areas. Even the money being paid by the multinationals for the development of the areas were being directed to private pockets, while the people of the areas continue to suffer. The president should do away with the Interim Management Committee of the NDDC and inaugurate the board already screened and approved by the Senate. Why should Garba Shehu say that the Interim Management Committee was known to the president when the president had already appointed the board? All of them are causing confusion and creating crisis for the president in the NDDC. If the militants strike again, those causing this confusion should be blamed. What is your take on the calls by the Niger Delta stakeholders for President Buhari to sack the Minister of the Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio? Buhari will not sack Akpabio. Was Akpabio not to pair with Festus Keyamo in the ministry, but Keyamo was redeployed? They know what they are doing. But, I suggest that Buhari should move Akpabio to another ministry. I know that Buhari will not sack him. The solution to all these is to move Akpabio to another ministry. He should inaugurate the new board and remove the Interim Management Committee. All these will end the current crisis in the NDDC. President Buhari has submitted the request for $29.6 billion foreign loan to the Senate, which was rejected by the 8th Senate. What is your take on that? If the current Senate is not a rubber stamp as the nation sees it, it should reject this request for $29.6 billion foreign loans already rejected by the 8th Senate. But, I doubt if they can reject the request. Since the emergence of this National Assembly, everything the president brought before the National Assembly had always been approved, even when the opposition kicked against them. The opposition is having tough time in the current National Assembly. So, I see President Buhari’s request sailing through in the Senate. Nigeria is already suffering from overblown foreign debts. Why can’t the Federal Government source for funds internally? The waste in government is too much. The lawmakers and the executive are milking this nation dry. As they are there in both the executive and the legislature, they are involved in contracts, which they hardly execute after taking all the project money. Nobody queries or checks them. Even the past foreign loans, what did they do with them? Such loans are not well utilised. Dr. Junaid Mohammed has been insisting that the North would not allow Igbos to become president of Nigeria. How do you see his view? Are the Northerners God? If it is a Southerner that said all these against the North, he would have caused confusion and such a person would have been arrested. What is Junaid Mohammed saying? Is the nation no longer for all of us? When they want to go for political campaigns, they go to everybody and every part of the country. When they come to business, they go for everybody. But, when it comes to power, North wants to covet everything. In the leadership of this country, North, South West and South South have had their turns. What are they afraid of? The major ethnic groups are Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo. Why is North is pursuing a discriminatory agenda? This is wickedness. Igbos have the right to leadership of Nigeria. If you carve out Middle Belt, where is North? Of all the income of this country, what is the contribution of North? What amount of Value Added Tax (VAT) comes from North? Now they want to increase VAT when people are dying of poverty. Junaid Mohammed’s utterances are annoying. He should say things that are positive that will contribute to the growth of the nation. Unfortunately, there are many people like Junaid Mohammed. That is why a cross section of Nigeria has been clamouring for restructuring and resource control. But, the North does not want to agree. Politicians are the ones causing all the problems in Nigeria. They employ and arm thugs during elections. Look at the experience in Kano during the 2019 general elections. Look at what happened recently in Kogi State. Thuggery, which was known to be common in Lagos, has now become more pronounced in the North. They keep their wives, children and even concubines overseas. Whatever politicians are doing is cosmetic. How do you see Igbos’ demand for 2023 presidency? Let the Igbos stand and demand for their right. God will lead them there. As they continue to play their roles in the nation, one day, God will take them there. It is their right to be president in 2023. What is the North afraid of? Presently, under the current administration, the Federal Government has jettisoned Federal Character principle. It is only on paper. The cabals from the North are controlling everything. God will deliver Igbos from the evil machinations and manipulations of the North. The courts approved bail for Omoyele Sowore, Bakare, Dasuki and the others. But, they are left to languish in detention because somebody is unforgiving and has no fear of God. What is your take on the continued closure of the land borders? The border closure should be reviewed. People are suffering. A bag of the local rice is now about N31, 000. The borders should be opened so that people can transact businesses. Even coconut is now being seized by Customs due to overzealousness. Coconut is grown in Badagry. The border closure is only in the South and does not affect the North. The government is imposing hardship on Southerners. At the Government Houses, do they eat local rice? How do you see the prosecution of the anti-graft war in this second term of President Buhari? The anti-graft war is all politics. If not, how can Akpabio who still has a case with the EFCC be appointed a minister? There are many in government like him, both in the executive and legislature. Many of them in government are corrupt. Take time to observe Garba Shehu and Femi Adesina, the two presidential spokespersons, when they make comments. Watch the areas Garba Shehu comments on and the areas Femi Adesina speaks on and what they say. Nigerians are watching and taking notice. Nobody knows tomorrow. The anti-graft war is not succeeding. They are now going after ‘Yahoo Yahoo Boys’ (internet fraudsters) to cover their weaknesses. Who encouraged the ‘Yahoo Yahoo Boys’? Who encouraged killings and kidnapping? Is it not the government? The anti-corruption war is all politics and has been politicised long ago. What are your last words for the government and Nigerians? My last words? Let us play democracy rightly. Let the people be law abiding. Nigerians should also be prayerful because the signs are ominous.