PERCY ONYEJEKWE NNEWI – The monarch of Nnewi, Igwe Kenneth O.N. Orizu 111, has urged the Federal Government to intensify effort at addressing the country’s challenges . Igwe Orizu, who lauded the federal and the Anambra State governments for their efforts aimed at developing the country and state, urged them never to relent in addressing the needs of the people. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The monarch stated this during his 94th Ofala festival and 56th birthday celebration in Nnewi, Anambra State, on Monday. Orizu noted that the 2019 general elections, which ushered in Buhari for a second term in office, came with serious challenges which escalated the problems of Nigerians. He, however, appreciated God and the people of the area for the peace that had continued to exist in the town as against what obtained in different arts of the country where the 2019 elections were marked with violence. “The country has been faced with serious security challenges since the Buhari’s administration commenced its second tenure. The Boko Haram insurgency has refused to go away. The Fulani herdsmen brought in their own armed banditry, killing and sacking people from their communities. “It is no longer safe to travel by road in most parts of the country as armed robbers attack travelers and kidnap them for ransom. There is pervasive unemployment. The N30,000 minimum wage has not been paid and there is real poverty and hunger in the land,” Igwe Orizu lamented. The monarch noted that despite the challenges, Nnewi made some progress socially and economically given the developmental strides the town had made so far, adding that the N20 million from Governor Willie Obiano added value to the progress made in developing Nnewi. He appealed to the state government to release the second batch of the money to enable Nnewi complete town secretariat, the project the community chose to do. He commended the political leaders from Nnewi and Governor Obiano for their various efforts at developing Nnewi, as well as President Buhari for siting some federal projects the town.