Francis Onoiribholo;Akinwunmi King Benin / Lagos  – The Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), asking it to, as a matter of urgency, intervene in the crisis rocking the state House of Assembly. A statement by the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Chris Osa Nehikhare, stated that the party through its attorney, Chikaodinaka Adindu, wrote INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, asking him to withdraw the certificates of return issued to members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who had not been to the Assembly since its proclamation on June 17, 2019 by the state governor, Godwin Obaseki. The candidates are Zubairu Dada Abubakar (Etsako West Constituency I), Ekoh Okoyomo Innocent (Esan Central Constituency), Afebu Aigbonoga (Etsako West Constituency II), Jimmy Osagiede (Egor Constituency), and Nosa Victor Omoregie (Ovia North East Constituency I). Others are Ibizugbe Stephen Osayomwanbor (Ovia North East Constituency II), Veadams Ezekiel Ighodaro (Uhunmwode Constituency), Eghosa Asemota Agbonifo (Oredo West Constituency II) and Godwin Adenomo (Ovia South West). Adindu, in the letter, explained that after the House was proclaimed and inaugurated by the speaker, Francis Okiye, fifteen members-elect who were declared by INEC were absent from the inauguration ceremony without any justification/excuse whatsoever. Part of the letter reads: “We have the understanding that our clients were nominated as the candidates of their political party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in their various constituencies to contest for their constituency’s seats in the Edo State House of Assembly in the election held on the 9th day of March, 2019. “Consequent upon that, the candidates of the All Progressive Party (APC) with respect of the above stated constituencies were declared winners of the election, certificates of returns were issued to them by your commission in order for them to be qualified to be inaugurated as members of the 7th Edo State House of Assembly. “We further have the understanding that, as expected, the Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki issued a proclamation in line with the provision of section 105 (3) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) on the 14th day of June, 2019 and the date of the inauguration was given therein as 17th day of June, 2019 and all members-elects were dully notified of the development by the clerk of the Edo State House of Assembly. “We further have the understanding that pursuant to the proclamation issued by the governor, the Edo State House of Assembly was inaugurated on the 17th day of June, 2019 with nine members-elect presented themselves for inauguration and subscribed to their oath of membership/allegiance. “It is pertinent to state that Mr. Okiye, Francis Abunere emerged as the speaker of the House of Assembly while Idiaye, Yekini Oisayemoje also emerged the deputy speaker. The other 15 members-elect as declared by your commission were absent from the inauguration ceremony on the said date without any justification/excuse whatsoever.” The PDP solicitor claimed that he was of the belief that notice of the votes and proceeding of the Edo State House of Assembly sitting of 4th December, 2019 had been communicated to INEC. “However, for the purpose of emphasis, may we humbly restate that the speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, in exercise of the power conferred on him by the provisions of section 109 (2) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) declared two seats of members who took the oath of membership/allegiance and later abdicated their seat without any lawful and justifiable cause vacant. “In the same vein, he also declared that 12 constituency seats are vacant as members-elect have refused/neglected to present themselves for inauguration and the subscription of oath of membership/allegiance, the House having sat for the first session and first quarters without them and called for a bye election in the affected constituencies. “In the circumstance, the only inference that can be drawn from their action/inaction in this regard is that they have abdicated their mandates without just cause,” he added. “We are by this letter demanding/requesting you and your commission (INEC), to use your good offices to issue to our clients, certificates of return within the next seven days of the receipt of this letter,” the letter stated. The solicitor also maintained that failure to accede to its request in the interest of justice and equity as clearly communicated by the letter within the time limit above, it shall be left with no other option than to carry-out the full instructions of its clients by instituting an action in the court of law.