LAGOS – The United Kingdom Government has said that the National Broadband Plan, which it’s partnering with the Nigerian Government, would increase broadband penetration level in the country to between 65 – 66 per cent in the next six years. The government also said that it would further provide national leadership and strategic sectorial direction for country-wide broadband connectivity and provide a basis for a more thriving digital ecosystem and inclusive economic development. Ms. Harriet Thompson, the British Deputy High Commissioner to Nigeria stated this during the signing of Letter of Intent at the Federal Ministry of Communications in Abuja. She said the British government, through the Prosperity Fund’s Digital Access Programme was collaborating with the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy to develop a new six years National Broadband Development Plan in Nigeria. She added that the previous National Broadband Plan; 2013 -2018, expired on December 31, 2018. The project will require a mix of technical expertise for supporting the drafting of the plan, conducting outreach activities and facilitating of technical retreats as well as related events for stakeholder engagement. These activities would generate essential inputs for the process of drafting a robust plan that would be implementable and will usher-in broad economic development. She said: “This project contributes to the United Kingdom (UK) Government’s Prosperity Fund objective of promoting inclusive, affordable, accessible, safe and secure internet access for the socio-economic development of underserved communities in Nigeria.” Dr. Isah Ali Ibrahim, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, welcomed the partnership and expressed appreciation for the UK Government’s support in growing the Nigeria’s tech ecosystem, which he said would in turn grow the Nigerian economy. Isah said the technology sector in Nigeria was adding more to the Nigerian economy and expressed optimism that the new broadband plan when developed and implemented would promote inclusive economic growth in Nigeria.