LAGOS – Former National Vice President of Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Prince Oluwarotimi Obamuwagun is set to be formally installed today, Saturday, December 21 as the Olumoru of Imoru in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State. Born on August 8, 1957, Oba Obamuwagun attended St Paul’s Anglican Primary School, Imoru, where he had his first taste in leadership as Assistant Senior Prefect. He proceeded to New Church Grammar School (NCGS), Owo, Ondo State, where he was also made the Social, Health and Chapel Prefect. His interest in journalism was piqued as a secondary school student when he developed particular interest in the writings of Otunba Banji Kuroloja of the Nigerian Tribune, whom he adopted as his role model, for his eloquence and bravery, which he displayed during the Obasanjo military administration. He later proceeded to the Nigeria Institute of Journalism, Lagos in 1983 and followed up by studying Mass Communication at the Post Graduate School, Imo State University, Owerri in 2002. In the course of his career, he worked at the Ondo State Radiovision Corporation (OSRC) in various capacities including as the Lagos City Editor, after which he moved on to the Nigerian Union of Journalists. Having served meritoriously as Secretary and later as Chairman, NUJ, Ondo State Council, he became Vice-president of the South West NUJ, known as B Zone for two terms and again proceeded to win the election as National Deputy President of the NUJ for the two terms of six years. O b a Obamuwagun long walk to the Olumoru throne began in 2012 and on August 1, 2019, the election was held at Ose Local Gove r nment secretariat and he was declared winner, out of the six princes that contested for the monarchy. Aside contributing immensely to the development of Ondo State, he is ready to continue the good work as a monarch in his kingdom. A strong advocate of human rights and the dignity of labour, the award-winning author will be presented with the staff of office by the Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu at the coronation, according to the Chairman of the Coronation Committee, Engineer Funsho Kupolokun.