Warri – ActionAid Nigeria and her local partner, Environmental and Rural Mediation Centre (Environmedic), on Thursday donated relief materials to 1,100 women temporarily living in three Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps set up for seven flooded communities in Delta State. According to the Actionaid Nigeria Country Director, Ene Obi, the relief materials included cooking utensils, blankets, sanitary pads, food items and cash. The Actionaid Country Director, who was represented by Azubike Nwokoye, Food and Agriculture Coordinator, Environmedic, said Actionaid and Environmedic were hopeful that the items and the cash donations would enable the beneficiaries to address their varied needs and utilize them appropriately for the benefit of their families. While commiserating with the affected communities and the state at large, Actionaid said the trauma being faced by some women who gave birth in the camp has been disheartening to the organization. “In Ozoro camp, the rate of new born children has been on the increase and the trauma of living in displacement with a baby away from the comfort of the home is disheartening to us as an organization,” Ene said. She added that, “Within the last two weeks, Actionaid Nigeria and our Delta State local partner, Environmedic, have visited three of the Internally Displaced Persons camps in Ashaka, Kwale, and Ozoro, including some affected communities namely, Abuator, Otegbo, Esaba, Egboh-Ideh, Otutuama, Okwemor and Edagiriga. “While on this preliminary visit, the pleas for help from these women could not be ignored,” she added. Ene also said that Actionaid appreciated the commitment of the Delta State Emergency Management Agency under the Commissioner for Special Duties to the plight of it’s citizen affected by the flood. Ene, however, noted that it was evident that Delta State required extra support particularly in helping the flood survivors rebuild their lives again. Actionaid, therefore, called on the Delta State Government to “extend its ongoing efforts beyond providing temporary accommodation and feeding to flood victims, to recover their their loses, work with communities to establish proper water channels and ultimately encourage river dredging in the state Receiving the items on behalf of the IDPs, Vincent Ohwofadjeke, Director, Panel Research and Statistics, SEMA, and camp Commandant, Alaka Grammer School, Ozoro, commended the Actionaid for donating the materials to the victims, saying that the materials would be judiciously used to the benefit of the victims.