Recent developments in Kwara State political space have continued to be a source of concern to political watchers, especially stakeholders in the state. One of such latest developments is the revocation of a property belonging to late Olusola Saraki, the father of former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, by the Kwara State government. The Kwara state government, had in a statement, last week Friday, claimed that the said land was originally meant for Government Secretariat and parking space of the Civil Service Clinic but was unlawfully allocated to a private firm, Asa Investments Limited, without any record of payment to the state government. The statement, which was signed by Rafiu Ajakaiye, the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, also claimed that Certificate of Occupancy was ever issued in favour of the firm. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has signed a constitutional instrument withdrawing the allocation of plots of land 1, 3 and 5 to the firm, asserting that the said land was unlawfully appropriated contrary to the purpose for which it was meant. “The Governor’s decision followed a resolution of the State House of Assembly urging him to reclaim the land because it was arbitrarily taken over in the 1990s without any evidence of payment by the Asa Investment Limited, even though the land was meant for public use,” part of the statement read. With the recent development, many are aghast at what they called ‘the vindictive politics’ of Governor Abdulrazak since assumption of office especially towards the Saraki dynasty. They are of the opinion that the governor has made up his mind to fight and ridicule those who he believed are his “perceived enemies”, because he was recently alleged to have started a fight with his supposed benefactor and godfather, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. After his swearing-in, AbdulRazaq was alleged to have decided to assume the leadership position of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, on the basis that he is the governor of the state and thus should automatically be the party’s leader. It was also gathered that since his emergence, he has sidelined members of the party’s state executives, carrying out policies without recourse to the party that got him to office through the ‘o to ge’ movement. Apart from sidelining the party’s executives in respect of funding, the governor was alleged to have single-handedly nominated all the Commissioners and Special Advisers, without recourse to the party’s hierarchy. In order to take full control of the party leadership, the governor is also alleged to be plotting the removal of Bashir Bolarinwa, the APC chairman in the state, and replace him with one of his loyalists. A source close to the Information Minister, told Daily Independent that the recent decision of the governor to start fight “perceived enemies”, may end up landing him in trouble, which he may not be able to control in the end. “I don’t want to describe the governor as an ingrate but that is what he is. We have only one leader in Kwara State and that is the current Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who is recognised both in Kwara APC and at the national level. “Nobody can deny the role he played in making APC the ruling party in the state today, especially in the build up to the ‘Otoge’ movement that made Governor AbdulRazaq what he is today. “Governor AbdulRazaq only contributed 10 per cent to the structures that brought him in. How many supporters could he bring out in Kwara APC before now? So, if the governor thinks he can just become the party leader in the state by fiat, I think he is just deceiving himself. The earlier he realises that, the better for him. “We even understand that he is nursing the ambition to become president of Nigeria and that is why he has been appointing more women into his cabinet so as to curry the favour of women in the country and also the youths by appointing a 26-year-old commissioner. How that is possible remains to be seen,” the source said. Another source told Daily Independent that his decision to revoke the property belonging to the late Saraki may end up pitching him against the people of the state. “Whether he likes it or not, the name Saraki remains a force to reckon with in Kwara State. The people may not like Bukola but at the same time, the governor can never rubbish that name of their father. The family has paid its dues in Kwara State. This battle that the governor has started will make the people of the state to rise against him.” The land revocation has also been generating reactions outside of the state, as the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) slammed the governor’s decision to revoke the ownership of the property. The forum in a statement issued on Monday in Lagos, by its National President, Yerima Shettima, said that the brazen use of force by Governor AbdulRazaq to hijack the property of the late politician is a total disregard to the Saraki’s family and an insult on the people of Kwara State. While noting that the move has potentials to destroy the legacies of “a politician who gave his all to make Kwara what it is today”, the forum stated that, “we take exception to the deployment of the powers of the state in a desperate move that smacks of political vendetta and failed attempt to rewrite history. It maintained that, “If the incumbent governor thinks he could destroy the late Saraki’s legacies as a political gimmick of winning public sympathy, he is making a fatal mistake.” While urging the late Saraki’s family to use all available legal and constitutional backing to fight for their cause, the forum also advised the incumbent governor to bear in mind that power is transient. However, the former Senate President believes that the action of AbdulRazaq against his family, especially his late father, shows his lack of sense of history. Saraki, while accusing him of setting out only to fight his family, stated that the governor has crossed the line of decency with his efforts to erase the legacies of his late father. He pointed out that the war of attrition waged against the legacy of his father and everything that belongs to the late politician simply portrayed the governor as “a man who lacks the sense of history and set out only to fight the Saraki family but not to serve the interest of Kwarans,” he said. Speaking further, the former Kwara State governor, said, “The property was allocated to my late father under the name of one of his companies, Asa Investment Limited, and contrary to the claim of the Governor, the land was properly allocated and a Right of Occupancy title issued on it. It should be noted that the excuse given by Abdulrazaq in his revocation order holds no water since it is clear that this is the height of his vengeance against my father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki and I. “Till today, many Kwarans have been wondering what problem the Governor has with the late Oloye Abubakar Olusola Saraki or what the late politician did to offend him. It is surprising that of all vacant plots of land in strategic places across Ilorin Township, the one that Abdulrahman found useful for his vengeful plan is the one owned by late Dr. Saraki. It is beyond comprehension why a Governor would set as his main agenda the objective of undermining and waging a war of attrition against a man who is no longer around,” the statement read in part. He also alleged that since the outcome of the elections in March, despite the fact that there are clear grounds to challenge the results in court, he had decided to demonstrate maturity, statesmanship and sportsmanship. “I should let it be known that if Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq thinks he is taking all these actions to get at me, he is only deceiving himself. There is no basis for competition between us. Our paths cannot cross because the status that he is struggling to attain, Almighty Allah has given it to me many years before now. “However, his open antagonism against my late father and his legacies is unwarranted and will not be tolerated. He has definitely gone beyond bounds as he cannot be allowed to ride roughshod on the deceased. In this war against my late father, he will not win. “This Governor has shown that he is not a man who wants peace, co-operation and development. He believes that a constant attack on my family and I is all that he needs to win the hearts of Kwara people. The need to provide good governance is secondary to him”.