LAGOS – On Tuesday, December 10, 2019, Nigerians joined the rest of the world to observe the International Human Rights Day, a United Nations (UN) programme. During the day, the UN and its affiliate counties usually reflect on the human rights situation globally. The UN chiefs and rights groups use the occasion to stress the need for leaders to respect the rights of the people they lead. António Guterres, the United Nations (UN) Secretary General, in his message during this year’s event, called on mankind to support and protect young people who, he said, had been standing up in several nations for the respect for human rights. The UN Chief Scribe maintained that “everyone is entitled to all rights, civil, political, economic, social and cultural, regardless of where they live, their race, ethnicity, religion, social origin, gender, sexual orientation, political or other opinion, disability or income, or any other status.” Guterres stressed that during this year’s Human Rights Day, with the theme, ‘Youth Standing Up for Human Rights’, the world would be celebrating the role of young people in bringing human rights to life. According to him, “Globally, young people are marching, organising, and speaking out: For the right to a healthy environment; for the equal rights of women and girls; to participate in decision-making and to express their opinions freely. They are marching for their right to a future of peace, justice and equal opportunities. “Every single person is entitled to all rights: civil, political, economic, social and cultural; regardless of where they live; regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, social origin, gender, sexual orientation, political or other opinion, disability or income, or any other status. “On this International Day, I call on everyone to support and protect young people who are standing up for human rights.” As part of the celebration, the International Human Rights Commission (IHRC), Geneva, Nigeria Committee, held a rally to draw the attention of the Nigerian peoples to their constitutional rights to life, to own properties, to hold opinion, and to associate as well as to worship anyhow they deem fit. In an address during the event, the IHRC envoy to Nigeria and National Coordinator, Amb. Amadi Darlington C, emphasised the need for all Nigerian citizens to be aware of their basic rights and report any security agency or individual who infringes on their rights. “As this year’s theme connotes, which is ” Know Your Rights,”, it is very important that all Nigerians understand the basic rights which they are entitled to under the laws and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” Amadi stressed. The IHRC, an affiliate of the United Nations, adopted all the fundamental human rights as declared by UNHRC as the minimum requirements for nations and citizens to coexist peacefully, among themselves and within themselves. IHRC commissioners in Nigeria, Austin Oguejiofor, former governor of Anambra State, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife, and former Kaduna State governor, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, in a joint statement, expressed concerns over the human rights situation under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. They called on the Federal Government to show more respect for the rights of Nigerian citizens to hold opinions and associate with each other. In the statement signed by Dr Kenneth Anozie, IHRC spokesman, Oguejiofor, Baralabe Musa, Ezeife, frowned at what they termed some disturbing occurrences in the polity as well as the conduct of some security officers who had been overzealous in carrying out their activities. It said: “This is quite unacceptable, and the Federal Government needs to take necessary steps to reassure the citizens that their rights are well protected.” It maintained that the recent indictment of the Nigeria state, especially by Sen. Menendez of the United States Senate, was quite disturbing and did not portray the image of the country in good light. “We believe that in a democracy as we currently practice it in Nigeria, rights of citizens to hold opinions, associate, worship and own properties as well as to life must be guaranteed at all times. These are what we believe are the minimum requirements in any democracy. “Section 1 of the Constitution of Nigeria, requires that all Nigerians are equal before the law and have the same rights, and Section 39 (1) guarantees all citizens the inalienable rights to hold opinions and to freedom of expression,” it stressed. On its own, Eastern Union (EU), a political pressure group for the people of the old Eastern Region, lamented that the human rights situation in Nigeria was nothing to write home about. Hon. Charles Anike, Eastern Union National President, in a statement, maintained that the human rights situation in the country had been deteriorating, especially since the emergence of President Buhari. He maintained that while the administration could boast of very little or no meaningful achievements in every sector compared with the previous administration, stressing that the All Progressives Congress (APC) regime had succeeded in undermining the human rights of citizens, while all sacred institutions that help to guide and direct the rights of citizens had been destroyed. Anike stressed: “Under Buhari and his APC, Nigeria has witnessed worst era in its history, especially in the area of human rights abuses. Since inception of the Buhari regime, abuses on human rights and disobedient to court rulings abound. “The most recent is the show of shame that the operatives of Department of State Service (DSS) displayed at the Federal High Court in their desperate attempt to re-arrest Mr. Omoyele Sowore and his fellow detained comrade. “Can there be any other form of contempt of the court worse than that for the security operatives to engage Sowore and his supporters in a fight right in the present of the judge and lawyers?” Anike lamented that Nigerians’ rights had been grossly undermined and abused through what he termed “senseless electoral fraud by the APC cabals,” adding that “under the APC government, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has never conducted any election that reflects the wishes of the people. “This is why the commission has become known by Nigerians as ‘Inconclusive INEC’, all in the desperate plot by the Federal Government to force its negative influence on every Nigerian. “Presently, the government, via the Senate, is seriously considering the Hate Speech Bill so as to finally silence every voice of reason and opposition.” However, the Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (CHURAC), said that the event should have been a moment of sober reflection for President Buhari administration. Barrister Alaowei E. Cleric, CHURAC President, in a statement, said the Federal Government should set an agenda for the protection and preservation of human rights as enshrined in our constitution. CHURAC said: “President Buhari needs to clean his bartered image on the area of human rights abuses by security agencies under his control.” It stressed that Chapter Four of the nation’s constitution, which it said was adopted from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, should be held sacrosanct by the government, maintaining that every of its action ought to conform to the dictate of the constitution. CHURAC said: “The Gestapo styled invasion of the residents of Justices of superior courts of Nigeria as well as the continued detention of political prisoners in spite of the court judgments ordering for their release are the worst human rights abuses by the Buhari’s government. “Nigeria’s international image has been bartered. Buhari should place the rule of law above national security. His security agencies, especially the Department of State Service (DSS) are only enforcing rule of self-help. “The security agencies are posing a big threat to our democracy. Buhari cannot rule Nigeria with his unconstitutional rule of self-help.