Easing trade tensions and production cuts by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), have boosted oil prices recently, but some investors remain doubtful that even the long-awaited developments will not be enough to push crude beyond its recent trading range.
It would be recalled that the U.S. crude prices hit a three-month high on Friday after the U.S. and China signaled they had reached a limited trade agreement that helped ease investors’ worries that slowing global growth would hurt demand.
A week earlier, OPEC and its Russia-led allies agreed to new crude-production cuts, which also boosted prices. Yet both rallies quickly stalled.
Optimism about the trade pact fizzled Friday afternoon, with U.S. crude prices paring gains from earlier in the day to settle up 1.5% for the week at $60.07 a barrel. And some doubt that the OPEC cuts—which would hold back a total of around 1.7 million barrels a day from global oil markets and deepen the current curb of 1.2 million barrels a day—will meaningfully reduce global supplies in the coming year.
While those production cuts could boost oil prices in 2020, some energy experts are skeptical about whether they will. Saudi Arabia agreed to reduce output by 167,000 barrels a day to 10.151 million, but the kingdom already produces an estimated 400,000 barrels a day less than its previous quota. And some OPEC members, including Nigeria and Iraq, have struggled with curbing supply, making it difficult to gauge how effective the cuts will be.
“Why would they change next year just because they made a pledge?” said Giovanni Staunovo, commodities analyst at UBS Global Wealth Management.
Oil prices remain well below their April highs, weighed down by concerns of oversupply and waning demand caused by slowing global growth, even after the initial trade agreement between the U.S. and China eased some growth worries.
“The upside to prices is limited,” said Robert Yawger, Director of the futures division at Mizuho Securities USA. “There is just so much supply out there.”
OPEC and the U.S. Energy Information Administration signaled Wednesday that global oil supply would likely remain robust going into next year.
The cartel left its world oil-demand growth estimates for 2019 and 2020 unchanged and forecast that non-OPEC supply would stay strong next year.
The same day, the EIA reported another weekly rise in domestic crude inventories, defying analysts’ predictions of a drawdown and marking a sixth week of increases out of the past seven.