OSOGBO – As part of its social responsibility gesture, Osun State Government has doled out a sum of N50, 000 to each of the returnees from South Africa who are indigenes of the state. The government has ordered the release of the money to the returnees as palliatives to each of the indigenes of the state who were affected by the Xenophobic attacks that occurred in South Africa in September this year. Governor Gboyega Oyetola in a statement issued by his media aide, Ismail Omipidan sees the palliative disbursement as a necessary responsibility of a responsible and responsive government after receiving the 43 names of the affected indigenes of the state forwarded by the Nigerian Diaspora Commission. The affected victims of the attacks have started coming to Osun government Secretariat, Abere in batches to collect the money in the spirits of love and friendliness after they received government invitation. According to the Governor, the State Government believes that the gesture will go a long way in making the victims have a feeling of being loved by their home government and at the same time assist them in no small way till they are fully reintegrated. “It is also the belief of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola administration that no social intervention is too small in a bid to alleviate the suffering of any indigene of the state who is in need of such assistance.” It would be recalled that, among the activities used to mark the first year anniversary of Governor Oyetola in office, were, feeding of the less privileged, disbursement of social intervention grants to the aged and physically challenged persons and commissioning of health facilities. While addressing the affected indigenes of Osun that benefited from the governor’s gesture, the Secretary to the State Government, Prince Oluwole Oyebamiji said they should not allow the bad incidents of the attack to affect their spirits of surviving, saying there is hope of rising again for them. Prince Oyebamiji said they should pursue their goals with vigour and spirits to succeed, noting that the challenges would later be a blessing in disguise. He said the government of Osun has created an enabling environment for investors to establish in the area of Agriculture and Mining sectors, which will provide job opportunities for the teeming youths of the state. He however admonished them to key into any government programmes of interest for them to be fully reintegrated. In their separate reactions, they all thanked the State Government for the honour accorded them, saying they are proud to be indigenes of the State. They however appealed to the Federal government and Osun government to always consider them for Employment and other job opportunity where available.