ABUJA – The Federal Government has announced that it is tapping into the potentials in the Niger-Benue Valley with 1.8 million hectares of irrigable land in the bid to ensure food security in the country.
Engr. Suleiman Adamu, who stated this in Abuja at a media briefing at the weekend, said irrigation remains one of the most viable options to food security of the nation in the face of growing population.
He said already that the engineering design and project preparation for Donga (15,000Ha potential) and Nasarawa irrigation projects (21,000 Ha potential) have been completed and procurement process has commenced.
As part of the unwavering commitment of the present administration to self-sufficiency in food production, Adamu said significant progress has been made to attain the target of 500,000 hectares of irrigable land developed by Government by the year 2030 in accordance with the (2016 – 2030) National Irrigation Plan.
This, he explained, would go a long way to impact on the food security agenda of this administration and significantly contribute to lifting many Nigerians out of poverty.
Speaking further on the efforts of the Federal Government on irrigation projects, the minister said, “Considerable achievement has been made in the World Bank assisted “Transforming Irrigation Management in Nigeria” (TRIMING) Project.
“I am glad to announce that work has fully resumed in the rehabilitation and improvement of the Bakolori Irrigation Scheme after the initial setback created by security challenges.
“Also, works are ongoing on the rehabilitation and improvement of Kano River and Hadejia Valley Irrigation Schemes, as well as development of 2000 Ha in Dadin Kowa.
Adamu also announced that the construction of four dams has been completed, awaiting commissioning by the Federal Government.
According to him, “The Ministry through the Department of Dams & Reservoir Operations has recorded appreciable progress in the construction of Dams, of which four dams have been recently completed (Kashimbila in Taraba State, Amla-Otukpo in Benue State, Ogwashi-Uku in Delta State and Amauzari in Abia State).
“Additional 10 dams are expected to be completed between now and 2021.”
For effective utilisation of the completed dams, he revealed that some are in the process of being handed over to relevant States Government or River Basin Development Authorities for Operation and Maintenance, as well as for development of downstream components for optimum utilisation of the stored water, such as drinking, irrigation and hydro-power supply.