Gbenga Omotoso, Commissioner for Information and Strategy in Lagos state, speaks with newsmen on the achievements of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his first 200 days in office. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: The agenda of the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration is anchored on ‘THEME’ which stands for Traffic management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology, Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy, and Entertainment and Tourism. How far has the administration gone in the last 200 days in ensuring effective traffic management? In the last 100 days, several programmes and projects, aimed at promoting the welfare and well-being of the people, were executed by the administration especially in the areas of transportation and traffic management. The issues of bad roads are being aggressively addressed to ease movement across the State with Eight Multi-national construction firms mobilised and ordered to carry out massive repair work on critical highways across the State. Also, extensive palliative and maintenance works are also being carried out by Public Works Corporation in different parts of the State. There is also the flag-off of the reconstruction and upgrading of strategic roads in Ikorodu such as the 6.05-kilometre Phase One Road from Itamaga to Ewu Elepe Town; 7.8 kilometres Owutu-Agric-Ishawo Road Phase One and Bola Tinubu-Igbogbo-Imota Road. In Victoria Island, Lekki Traffic Circulation project on Oniru axis is also being undertaken by Lagos State Government and Access Bank under a Public Infrastructure Improvement Partnership arrangement to ease traffic considerably around Victoria Island, Oniru and Lekki axis. In the bid to strengthen the drive for a multimodal transport system in the State, the government launched UberBoat water transportation service. The business; a partnership between the global ride-hailing company and Lagos State Waterways Authority, LASWA, has begun to explore the State’s abundant waterways and reduce the pressure on roads. It also attests to the confidence global investors’ repose in Lagos as an investment destination of choice. The government’s resolve to expand routes that will ease traffic along highways leading to settlements on the outskirts of Lagos, this administration has called for Expression of Interest in respect of the 38Km Fourth Mainland bridge project on a Public-Private Partnership arrangement. The arrangement will include the construction and operation of a tolled road plus a bridge between Ajah, Eti-Osa and Mainland Lagos to serve as an alternative route to the eastern part of Lagos State. In the last 200 days, how far has the government gone in the areas of sound health and a conducive environment for Lagosians ? The government has done a lot in these two areas in the last 200 days. Under this pillar a new, ultra-modern, one hundred and forty-nine bed, Maternal and Childcare Centre, MCC in Alimosho General Hospital was commissioned. It was facilitated through the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, evidencing a working partnership between the Federal and the State Government. The administration is working hard towards the completion of more MCCs in Badagry and Epe. Also, a free surgical intervention programme was held in partnership with a non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Benjamin Olowojebutu Foundation for residents suffering from Lipoma, Hernia, Fibroid and Breast Lumps, as well as free dental and general health screening. Another free medical initiative tagged “Healthy Bee Project”, a collaborative effort of the State Government and a Non-Governmental Organization, BOSKOH Lagos Healthcare Mission International (HMI), screened over 21,000 people at seven centres over a period of six days, while a total of 1417 free surgeries were conducted for residents, including eye operation for children and adults, pediatric surgery, dental surgery, orthopaedic surgery, and ENT (Ear, Nose and Throat) surgery. An important step taken within the last 100 days was the resuscitation of Adiyan waterworks, Phase Two which has a production capacity of seventy million gallons per day. Government commenced the rehabilitation of the dam to increase the provision of safe drinking water to more than five million Lagos residents and address the challenges of water-borne diseases. Within the period under review, LAWMA also acquired 10 new boats to boost its marine waste operations in the state. The Lagos Blue Box initiative was launched on the 5th September 2019 in Community Recycling Centres across five Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), with recyclers strategically positioned to help drive the process. What steps have you taken in the last 200 days to make Lagos State a 21st century economy? Government has recorded a milestone in infrastructural development with the signing of the $621m funding for the Lekki Seaport project. Funding was provided by China Development Bank. 4,885 youths graduated from the 17 Skill Acquisition Centres located in the five Divisions of the State after acquiring skills in fashion designing, hat and bead making, aluminum fabrication, shoe making etc. to the increase the number of micro, small and medium entrepreneurs in the State and improve the socio-economic status of beneficiaries. Also in a bid to protect the real estate sector, curb fraudulent practices in the business and secure the multibillion naira property investment in the State, the administration has launched a Real Estate Transaction Portal. The platform will secure investments in the property market by checkmating unscrupulous dealings in the transactional process. It will also afford property owners and tenants the opportunity to register and transact business with one another without interference from third parties. What has the government done in the area of agriculture to meet the food demands of Lagosians? In line with the national campaign for a return to agriculture, the administration gave a boost to the fortunes of farmers through Agricultural Value Chains Empowerment Programme. Hundreds of farmers were empowered with inputs to kick start or improve their businesses. The initiative will increase the volume of production and move the State further in its quest for food security. The 32 metric tones per hour capacity Imota Rice Mill is also one of the many strategies for expanding revenue accruable to the State and also attain sufficiency in rice production. The rice mill which is situated on a landmass of 8.5 hectares of land will produce 650 bags of 50kg rice per hour and has two lines to produce 16 metric tons each. In preparation for 2020 fiscal year, a 1.168 trillion Naira Budget estimate was presented to Lagos State House of Assembly. Out of the total proposal christened “Awakening the Greater Lagos”, 723.75 billion Naira, representing sixty-two per cent, is for capital expenditure while 444.81 billion Naira or 38 per cent is for recurrent expenditure. Higher capital expenditure estimates is aimed at accelerating the growth of the State through extensive investments in physical infrastructure, environment, human capital and security. Looking at one key area which is security, what steps have been taken by the Sanwo-Olu administration to eusre that Lagos State is secure for both residents and visitors? In the area of security, this administration has done a lot, working round the clock and behind the scenes to ensure that Lagosians sleep with their two eyes closed at night. It will interest you to know that since this administration came on board in May, the state has not recorded any cases of bank robbery. Also, the administration has kept its promise for continuity by convening this year’s edition of the annual Town Hall Meeting on Security to strategise against emerging security challenges. As it is the practice, the event was also used to appreciate individuals and corporate organisations for supporting the Lagos State Security Trust Fund, LSSTF. In continuation of the justice reforms, government presented fifty new vehicles to Magistrates to elicit better performance and facilitate efficient and effective justice delivery for every Lagosian. The Lagos State Special Taskforce on Land Grabbers popularly known as ‘OmoOnile Taskforce’ whose mandate is to rid the State of land grabbers has continued to arrest and prosecute offenders while its operations recently received a boost with the arrest of 19 alleged land grabbers in Kosofe Local Government. Recent Statistics show that there is an appreciable increase in the number of citizens who patronize the Taskforce for resolution of land grabbing cases. This is due in part to the intensity of publicity and awareness campaigns as well as testimonies of people who have had their cases resolved through the Taskforce.