LAGOS – The Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) has slammed the Kwara State governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, over his decision to revoke the ownership of a property allegedly belonging to late Olusola Saraki, father of former Senate President, Bukola Saraki. The forum, in a statement issued on Monday in Lagos by its National President, Yerima Shettima, said the brazen use of force by Governor AbdulRazaq to hijack the property of the late politician was a total disregard to the Saraki’s family and an insult on the people of Kwara State. While noting that the move had potentials to destroy the legacies of “a politician, who gave his all to make Kwara what it is today”, the forum stated, “we take exception to the deployment of the powers of the state in a desperate move that smacks of political vendetta and failed attempt to rewrite history. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “We have learnt that late Saraki’s property that is being hijacked by the powers-that-be namely the Kwara State government is nothing but a war of attrition. This is because the property in question was being used by the late Olusola Saraki to take care of old people, the poor and the sick ones, who lack the resources to face the challenges of health, hunger and poverty. “It is interesting to see that even after his death, this philanthropy has been sustained by the family. We therefore have reason to suspect that it was a mission in disguise to wipe out the empowerment legacies of the late Olusola Saraki. “This is an abuse of office, a disservice to the people of Kwara and a ridiculing of the unity and brotherhood among northerners,” Shettima said. He maintained that “If the incumbent governor thinks he could destroy late Olusola Saraki’s legacies as a political gimmick of winning public sympathy, he is making a fatal mistake.” He, however, called on the relevant stakeholders in Kwara State to intervene by bringing an end to “this self-destructive mission”, which according to him, was capable of portraying the Northerners as haters of the custodians of their history and political culture. While urging the late Saraki’s family to use all available legal and constitutional backing to fight for their cause, the forum also advised the incumbent governor to bear in mind that power is transient.