BENIN – The management of the University of Benin (UN­BEN) has cautioned staff against engaging in school runs during working hours, warning that anyone found wanting would face appro­priate disciplinary action. This is coming just as the university also barred work­ers from watching television during office hours, adding that doing so is “diverting at­tention from the primary ob­jectives of staff and lowers productivity considerably”. The warning to the staff which was contained in the school’s circular endorsed by the University’s regis­trar, A.O Oshodin (Mrs.) noted that the management would not condole shoddy attitude of staff to duty that could dent the institution’s reputation. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to the circular, members of staff still in­dulge in the habit of coming late to work and abstinence in spite of several warnings against tardiness. “Even when they come, they (staff) spend hours do­ing school runs and attend­ing to personal matters. Staff should note that work starts at 8:00 am and closes at 4:00 pm. “Accordingly, manage­ment has directed that these ugly trends should stop forth­with. Besides, staffs are also advised to desist from uneth­ical behaviour while on their duty posts as offenders will be made to face appropriate disciplinary action. “Management will no longer tolerate a situation where staff absents them­selves from duty a day or more without permission and members of staff are once again advised to be properly guided by the con­tents of this circular. “For the avoidance of doubt, the relevant sections of the regulations are here­by reproduced for emphasis. “Members of staff who intend to be away from duty; or other place of work, on university research shall, if such absence does not ex­ceed 10 working days, seek the approval of the Head of Department and, where ap­propriate, the Dean and the provost. “All Heads of Depart­ments shall seek the approv­al of the Dean, Provost or principal officers appropri­ately on any occasion that they may wish to be absent from duties, the circular.