ADO-EKITI – Elder statesman and President of New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) Business Group, Bamanga Tukur, has charged African leaders to protect the deprived in their respective countries by leading the campaign against xenophobia. The elder statesman gave this admonition when a former member of House of Representatives and initiator, OneUnitedAfrica ,Bimbo Daramola, called at his residence in Abuja where he formally endorsed the initiative. According to a statement made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti by Lanre Aribisala, the Director, Public Communications of the anti-xenophobia project, Tukur called for concerted effort to end the menace. According to him, the present crops of leadership in Africa must embrace and lead a far-reaching campaign against the emerging monster, if it must progress. Tukur noted that the resurgence of hate tendency among Africans remains stumbling to peace and progress in the continent. “African leaders should wake up to their responsibilities. It is not enough to be the president of a country, you must be ready to stand for and protect the deprived in your respective countries. “We must reclaim ourselves, we must mobilise opinions through education. We must let our people understand that we don’t have a future unless and until we come together,” Tukur warned. He said: “It is time to take the campaign from village to towns, to cities, to states and countries. We must let them understand that we are a race, a black race and until we are united, we cannot not talk about peace and progress.” “It is not by accident that a Nigerian is leading the campaign on OneUnitedAfrica .Nigeria was a frontline in the fight against apartheid. We are sending our resources to fight apartheid. “I met the late Nelson Mandella and he told me that the first country he visited after leaving the prison was Nigeria to thank us. That we are in the frontline in the fight against apartheid and that we supported their economy,” he added. Earlier in his remark, Daramola hinted that the idea was conceived in 2012 when he raised a motion alerting continent to the emerging realities of a monster at the hallowed chamber,” which if not nipped in the bud, could cause crisis. And that is the resentment of backs on blacks,” Although the Ire-Ekiti born crusader acknowledged the steps taken so far by Nigerian government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since the wake of scourge, he however, enjoined other African leaders to key into pan-African project by showing more commitment. “The last may not be the last on xenophobia unless we redouble our efforts in preaching unity. And for us, the best of Africa can only come from the unity of Africa,” he averred. The former legislator, who represented Oye/Ikole Federal Constituency between 2010-2014, argued that the number-one economic magic needed to drive the ailing economy of the continent was unity. He called for greater attention and collaboration by all and sundry in combating the scourge of xenophobia, noting that it was against the vision of the African forefathers. “It is very sad today that nobody is talking about pan-Africanism. The new crops of political leadership in Africa did not connect with the realities of where we were coming from. “Yes, you can punish crime and criminality but don’t criminalise being black. Diplomacy and bilateral talks is good but those who engage in xenophobia do not understand these. This project must be embrace by all. It should not be one off thing .Let us make it a topical issue and put it in the front burner “ Daramola admonished.