In a bid to rid the state of human trafficking, the Delta State Government through its ‘Taskforce on Human Trafficking and Irregular Migration’ has taken its sensitisation campaign to the grassroots.
The taskforce has also called on faith-based organizations that are considered as the great influencer of minds to join hands with the Delta State Government in its fight against the illegal trade.
Chairman of the taskforce, Mr. Peter Mrakpor who is also the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, made this appeal while he led other members of the taskforce to Saint Peter’s Christ Army Church of Nigeria, Agbor, Ika South Local Government Area on Sunday to sensitize people of the area on the dangers of the obnoxious human trafficking business which he said has become prevalent in the area.
It would be recalled that the chairman of the taskforce promised to take its sensitization campaign to the 25 local government areas of the state when it hosted Attorneys General Alliance/Africa Alliance Partnership Symposium penultimate Wednesday where he raised alarm on the spread of the activities of human traffickers in the State which he succinctly described as “evil and one of the greatest crime against humanity.”
While exposing the modus operandi of the human traffickers, chairman of the taskforce said the recruiters of young and energetic innocent girls and boys usually lure them into embarking on the dangerous and life threatening journey to Europe and other Africa Countries with a promise of greener pasture.
Mrakpor further gave a gory account of the kind of inhuman treatment meted on those who fell prey to their schemes.
He disclosed that the State Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa while receiving the Director-General of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) prior to the inauguration of the state taskforce, had underestimated the prevalent rates of the crime in State but was shocked when the D-G told the Governor of the number of persons trafficked from Ika South and Ika North East alone which was very disturbing.
Mrakpor who conceded that enforcement of the law alone against offenders was not enough in preventing the crime, stated that the steps already taken by the taskforce in embarking on the campaign to every nook and crannies of the State were part of measures to nip the crime in the bud. While appreciating the clergy who mobilized members of the church to attend the sensitization campaign of the taskforce which was taken to the Church, Mrakpor enjoined faith-based organizations whom he referred to as the greatest influencer of minds to join hands with the Delta State Government to use the pulpit to preach against the menace, noting that the crime was becoming more rampant.