Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday called on the All Progressives Congress (APC) to come clean on revelations in the public space that N40 billion taxpayers’ money allegedly siphoned from the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) was used to finance its 2019 campaigns.
The party also challenged the President Muhammadu Buhari Presidency to lead by example by publishing details of its spending and financial transactions as an impetus to enforce its financial reporting directives on Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs).
The party said the N40 billion had not only unsettled certain persons in the Buhari Presidency but had also exposed the rottenness in the APC.
The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the development had further vindicated its stand that the APC was a hypocritical party.
“It is shameful that instead of being remorseful, agents of the APC are reportedly engaging in dirty infighting over how the money was ‘shared,’ with certain top leaders of the APC allegedly getting up to N3 billion each,” the PDP said.
The party cautioned the APC not to take Nigerians for a ride with its usual diversionary empty denials, finger pointing, hauling of insults and spurious accusations against the PDP, adding that the public already haD reports of how very top leaders of the APC, including those operating at the Presidency, were used to conduit the money from the FIRS.
The PDP holds that in a nation battling the scourge of corruption, misrule, huge unemployment, unprecedented infrastructural decay, insecurity, hunger and untold hardship, such a humongous allegation must not be allowed to go under the usual APC carpet.
“Our party submits that since the APC has been overtly indicted, it should come clean by refunding the N40 billion to the public coffers from where it should be channelled to job creation projects without further delay,” it said.
Meanwhile, the party has tasked the Presidency to publish its spending details, including the beneficiaries, the purpose, and the amount of each payment, in line with presidential directives to the MDAs.
The PDP said it was not enough for President Buhari to issue spending directives to MDAs without his Presidency, which received billions of naira in budgetary allocation, leading by example.
The party added: “Nigerians deserve to know how much is allocated to the Presidency, the various expenditure subheads, process of award of contracts, the contractors, the beneficiaries, amounts paid and payment system. “Perhaps such would explain why certain individuals who are close to the Presidency live in ostentatious opulence and flaunt very expensive lifestyle in the same country where millions of citizens wallow in abject poverty, hunger, homelessness and disease. “It is worrisome that the Buhari presidency has failed to make details of its yearly budget and expenditure public, despite several demands for openness, which raises anxieties and allegations of huge sleazes and corrupt concealments against certain officials and cabal in the Presidency.”