ENUGU – On December 4, the Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) released the timetable for local government election in the State. ENSIEC released the timetable, sequel to the expiration of tenure of all the elected council officials, comprising of chairmen, deputy chairmen and councilors. According to the timetable, signed by Dr Mike Ajogwu (SAN), Chairman of ENSIEC, local government elections will hold across 17 local government areas in Enugu State on February 29, 2020, to elect chairmen, deputy chairmen and councilors for the 260 wards in the state. From 15-22 January, programmes for political parties primaries geared towards selection of candidates are to be prepared and submitted to ENSIEC with timetable specifying particularly, time, days, and venues for primaries. No two or more political parties are allowed to hold their primaries at the same time, day or venue. Political Parties were expected to obtain nomination forms, ENSIEC 7 and ENSIEC 7A for chairmanship and councillorship elections respectively from 23 and 28 January 2020. All political parties were expected to complete and return nomination forms on or before January 28, 2020. The timetable stated further: “29th to 30th January 2020, list of candidates nominated by political parties shall be forwarded to headquarters of Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission, No.3 Achi Street, Independence Layout Enugu. “31st January-3rd February, 2020, checking of candidates credential; Councillorship candidates shall be checked at various local government headquarters while chairmanship candidates shall be checked at Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission Headquarters, No.3 Achi Street, Independence Layout Enugu.” The list of qualified and unqualified candidates would be published February 8 to February 10, 2020, while parties are allowed to effect replacement of unqualified candidates from February 11 to 13. Political parties are allowed to campaign from February 5 to February 27, while the local government election holds on February 29, 2020. However, the Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP) in Enugu State, says it cannot trust Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, with the conduct of the council polls, as he has a track record of not keeping promises. In a statement by the Chairman, Adonys Igwe, CNPP equally threatened to embark on a mass protest should the Governor tinker with the idea of appointing a caretaker committee to preside over affairs of the local government. Igwe asked the Governor to quickly reverse the idea of local government Caretaker Committee or face mass protest in the state, adding that they will resist any attempt to impose caretaker committee on the people of Enugu because “it is anti people, inhuman and barbaric for anyone to do so.” The CNPP boss noted that ideally, in a well constituted local government administration, the state governments should have no business fixing those pothole infested roads in neighbourhoods, providing pipe-borne water that have now herculean task in Enugu State or providing desks for primary schools. Igwe explained: “That should be the primary responsibility of the local councils but this is the result when local government administration is placed under one person’s armpit to the benefit of political cronies as means of saying thank you or people who will do a hatchet job for them. “A look at the Contemporary socio-political and economic conditions engendered by poor governance and the contradictions of decadent capitalism has led the youth of Enugu State into unemployment, underemployment, idleness, and unproductive and criminal activities for survival. And the reason for this is not unconnected with the fact that right leadership to drive the needed policy is seriously lacking in the state. During the last administration in the Enugu state, to an extent the state witnessed infrastructural turnaround and one expect that incoming government will continue on that direction to improve, uplift and redefine the lives of people of the state especially the young ones in the state but when administration is not in touch with modern realities, what do you expect? “And one begins to panic and get so much worried when an elected government has no meaningful program for its teaming youth. Where are the industries in Enugu? What happened to the existing ones that keepgoing moribund? Is it not shocking to know that since the inception of this administration, not a single industry was built both directly or indirectly through this administration of governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, not even a tissue company. What a government. And this same government is saying that he will conduct local government election on February and you believed him when he cannot fulfill a single promise made to the people of the state since 2015,” Igwe said. Igwe continued: “In Enugu State, ordinary water is like sourcing for gold mine or crude oil. How do we describe a father that cannot provide ordinary drinking water for his family? An irresponsible father of course!, after making several promise of reviving the state water corporation. I don’t know or remember how many streets in Enugu with functional pipe born water. It is so shameful to know that the entire state depends on commercial water vendors and even the seat of power most of the times depends on water vendors for their water need. What a government! CNPP called on the state government to wake up from its existential slumber and sit up to its responsibility before the entire state wallow in trachoma disease. “How can you trust a government that has money to build unnecessary pedestrian bridge at Holy Ghost because you want to pacify the Catholic Community but you can’t patch death trap potholes that have become almost impassable at Mammy market and Enugu Onitsha Express Road by Penox? I bet you once there is accident in that road, they will wake up thereafter they will go back to sleep. That is Enugu state government for you,” Igwe said. Two months before ENSIEC released the timetable for the council polls, the leading opposition party in Enugu State, the APC, said it was not bothered about the council election as it was a waste of time and resources. In a telephone interview, the APC Chairman, Dr Ben Nwoye recalled that in the last local government election in 2017, he gave some persons tickets and they spent money to campaign vigorously, but the election turned out to be a sham. He said when the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the ruling party in the state, saw that APC was prepared, they connived with ENSIEC to remove the result sheets on the day of elections. Nwoye lamented that ENSIEC went ahead to announce PDP winner with non-existent results, manufactured somewhere else, outside the polling units. The party boss recalled that every other local government elections in Enugu State, before 2017, followed the same pattern of writing results. He said it was even better to appoint caretaker committees for the local governments now than conducting local government elections that would turn out like others held in the past. He, however, appealed to Lawan and Gbajabiamila, to use their positions as leaders of the National Assembly, to make laws that would ensure democracy thrives at the local government level. He expressed confidence in the abilities of Lawan and Gbajabiamila as very experienced legislators to change the ugly narrative of the local government system in Nigeria. Although Lawan and Gbajamiala are yet to take any action on the local government system in Nigeria, a few days ago, the Supreme Court while delivering judgment on the case of removed council chairmen against Ekiti State Governor, barred states from appointing caretaker committees. The Apex Court directed that the judgment be served on all the 36 states before December 31, 2019. For now, the guidelines for LG polls in Enugu State have been released, even as efforts were being made to appoint caretaker committees for the councils. Will the plans be altered? Only time will tell.