Chief Wole Olanipekun, a foremost lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), lent his voice to the controversial Hate Speech Bill under consideration at the National Assembly. The former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) spoke on the sideline of the annual scholarship scheme instituted by his foundation in Ikere-Ekiti, where over 100 indigent students benefitted. YAQOUB POPOOLA captured his views. Excerpts: What is your view on the controversial Hate Speech Bill being debated by the National Assembly? Let me first of all say this, that I am happy to note that it is not an Executive Bill. You know you can have an Executive Bill, Members’ Bill or Private Bill. This Bill is being initiated from or by the National Assembly. I am happy because the bill didn’t originate from the Presidency. I think we are mixing a lot of things up. People are commenting that President Muhammadu Buhari wants to gag the press. I do not agree with them because the bill did not come from the Presidency. But, it is unfortunate that it is coming from the National Assembly. We have a lot of problems in Nigeria that we need laws to cushion their effect. We need laws that will cushion the effect of hardship, poverty, education, insecurity, bad roads and all of that. As a senior citizen of Nigeria and a legal luminary, what advice would you give to the national legislators on the matter? As an elder statesman, let me advise the National Assembly to be more productive. Let us stop chasing vanity, and things that are counterproductive. To me as a lawyer, as an elder, I want to say that this bill will be counterproductive. The bill will bring disunity even among family members. We should not bring disunity. Wife and husband disagree, and if such happens, will you report your spouse for hate speech? Others are moving forward, we are stuck here. In other climes, people are thinking of how to transform their countries in 100 years time. I was in Britain a couple of weeks ago, and in a newspaper article it was reported that what former Prime Minister Tony Blair had put in place some 20 years ago had began to materialise. And what was it, the Labour government under Blair came to the realisation that the enrolment in school of young ones had gone below 20 percent and the government initiated an idea of getting young men in school by making education their major priority and now 20 years after, the percentage has risen to 57. That is the kind of thing we should celebrate, not some laws that are counterproductive. As a Lawyer, what exactly is considered as hate speech? I don’t know. My little knowledge of law will not open my eyes to the definition of hate speech. In the law of defamation, we have libel and slander and vulgar abuse. And they would tell you vulgar abuse is not actionable. We are all human beings, we all have emotions, and everyman has his own lull moment. Sociology makes us to understand that everyone has a moment of momentary madness, an insane period of man. It might even be a transferred aggression. If you see me work in my office, at times I might shout at a man bringing a brief and say, you fool, get out. Didn’t Jesus say that get thee behind me devil? Let us caution ourselves in this country, and my fear is that those who make the law might become victims of such law. It is going to be a vicious cycle. The politicians, what do they do at the soap boxes; they engage in hate speech and abuse themselves irrespective of their political alliances. They should rather tell us what would benefit Nigerians in the soap box not spreading hate speech. They are the purveyors of hate speech. We have gotten to a stage where in Nigeria we have to speak to with ourselves. Even God says to humanity, come let us reason together. We must be cautious. Where do we start, where do we progress? What exactly is hate speech? It is something that will have a beginning, but will not have an end. First, they were proposing capital punishment, goodness me, such punishment is outdated. Look at how many people have been condemned to death penalty, how many governors have been able to sign the document? I was the Attorney General in the old Ondo State and even in Ekiti State. None of the governors could sign death penalty even though we had many convicts on death row. You see chief judges of various states going to release prisoners and you are talking of death sentence. Moving forward, where do we go from here? Please they should respect the sanctity of human life. Nigeria is not in a Stone Age. We have laws that have taken care of all offences in Nigeria. Rights are inalienable, you can’t take rights away. It is not a question of adjustment, but a question of we are all human beings. We can err. It is only God that is perfect. Let them withdraw the bill. Whether they amend it or not, it will conflict with the principles of fundamental human rights. No review, no amendment; but they should withdraw it out rightly. We will forgive them if they show that they err. We will understand that they are also human beings who can also err. Many governors have condemned the bill and that is civilisation. Everybody knows what is good. Everybody also values the sanctity of life. It is not a question of it is APC, PDP or APGA. It is a question of what is not good, is not good. It is a pity that the National Assembly even gave it a thought in the first place.