Awka  – Speaker of the Anambra State House of Assembly, Uche Victor Okafor, has called on the citizenry to remember the less-privileged and downtrodden as they partake in the Christmas and New Year celebrations. Okafor said Christmas and New Year festivities were not about the well-to-do alone but also those who are in the orphanages, rehabilitation centres and all those who do not have the resources to afford the merriments and splendor of the season. Delivering his Christmas and New Year messages to the citizenry during an exclusive interview with our correspondent in Awka, the Speaker noted that the Governor’s wife, Ebelechukwu Obiano, has a pet project christened CAFE , where she attended to the needs of the destitute and down-trodden across Anambra State. He stressed the need for people to tow the line of the governor’s wife and extend a hand of fellowship to the poor and the needy this festive season to give them sense of belonging, even as he admonished the citizenry to tread moderately in all their endeavours this Yuletide period. Okafor, therefore, encouraged the people to visit the destitute homes, motherless babies’ homes, as well as those remanded in the nation’s correctional centres, to show them affection and also celebrate the season with them. The Speaker said: “Thank God we have His Excellency, Willie Obiano as our governor. He has really done so well to make sure that this Christmas would be a very lovely one. He has maintained security. Our roads are also being maintained, so there is a good road network. Electricity is there; so we won’t have anything to bother us abou . “Civil servants receive their salaries; so everything is just there for us to enjoy our Christmas. All we need to do is to enjoy it and enjoy it peacefully. “ The Speaker of the 7th Anambra State House of Assembly further advised that there should be no bonfire on the roads because it affected the fabrics of the roads, stressing that after awhile the roads would start developing cracks and by the next rainy season, the roads would be destroyed . The lawmaker, who also represents Ayamelum State Constituency, noted that road construction was capital intensive, so it is of paramount importance that the citizens showed some level of patriotic behaviour by not burning objects on the roads in the spirit of Christmas and New Year celebrations.