Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says there is a need for the clergy to put their reflections in writing in order to provide guidance and direction. Osinbajo gave this advice on Saturday while presenting a book–“Musings of a Parson’’ by Rev. Konyin Ajayi, at the Christmas Carol Concert of the Emmanuel Chapel, Methodist Church of Nigeria, Banana Island, Lagos, NAN reports. The theme of the Carol is “Christmas Made in Naija: My Christmas Story.’’ The vice president, whose remark was titled, “Why the Parson Muse,’’  said that the title– Musings of a Parson– downplayed the profundity of the collection. “But these are not the mere musings a parson these are his deep reflections on scripture and the Christian race. “So as not to delay needlessly on form let us move on to the question which is the subject of my own musing this evening, why should the parson muse? “It is an important question today as we are reminded in Proverbs 29:18; where there is no vision, the people perish;  but he that keepeth the law, happy is he;  without a vision, the people perish. “Without the propagation of the word, the revealed word, the spirit and not the letter…there is no guidance, no direction;  Romans 10:13-14; for whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. “How then shall they call on Him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in Him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? “It is the propagation of the word with integrity that transformed Europe and America;  the promise of  gospel is that it will transform the mind and that men, women and nations will come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ,’’ he said. In a welcome message, Abiola Otufale, Chair, Christmas Concert Committee, said that the platform looked towards creating awareness of the goodness of God, contentment with the blessings of all good things, Naija—looking to stories of new birth. According to him,  “Musings of a Parson’’ will be the third in a series of divinely inspired writings which breathes peace and joy into the nation, laments its woes and charts a path for its youth—so that they can truly be part of the global digital economy.