Lagos – The Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday said it is not opposed to a peace meeting with Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the embattled national chairman of the party, which it said has been suspended from the party at the ward level. It, however, said any reconciliatory move must be based on justice and respect for the party’s constitution which was violated by some leaders of the party in the South-South last week. Speaking with Daily Independent, Anselm Ojezua, the state chairman of the party, said the meeting of the South-South APC failed because the conveners showed utter disregard for the party’s constitution by convening a peace meeting in Oshiomhole’s private residence. That, according to him, negates the spirit of genuine reconciliation. “There is nobody who will not be open to reconciliation. Nobody likes trouble. But if there is going to be reconciliation, it must be based on justice and the constitution of our party must be respected. Certain decisions have been taken according to the constitution, until that is reversed, we have to give effect to it. “The national chairman has been constitutionally suspended by his own ward. So, why should they now go and fix a meeting around him and conferring legitimacy on him when effectively he is actually suspended as a member? That is why I keep asking if somebody’s membership is suspended, can that person function as an officer of an association? That is the fundamental question. “They need to deal with him for him to face his suspension and then you can begin to discuss reconciling him with his people if that will help. But for them to ignore the rules of the party is offensive to the very constitution all of us collectively swore to defend. “Giving the impression that some people are sacred cows is wrong. From the result of that meeting, you can see that it was a meeting to save his face and that was why it failed. I already predicted that the meeting was called to pass a vote of confidence on the suspended national chairman and that was exactly what happened. “More than 75 percent of those at the meeting were his loyalists. Many people that were sponsored in Benin to go and create a colony in Abuja were the people at the meeting”. It would be recalled that an emergency caucus meeting called last week by the South-South region of the APC to find a solution to the intractable crisis in the party failed to achieve its desired objectives as Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki and the leadership of the party in the state boycotted it. Giving reasons for boycotting the meeting which was convened by the APC National Vice-Chairman, South-South, Hilliard Eta, the Edo State chapter said the venue of the meeting should have been a neutral place and not in Oshiomhole’s private residence. It also said the major aim of the meeting is to pass a vote of confidence on the embattled national chairman. As predicted, a vote of confidence was passed on Oshiomhole at the end of the meeting which was boycotted by leading political office holders from the South- South zone of APC. Ovie Omo-Agege, Deputy Senate President was also chosen as the leader of the party from the zone. Also on Sunday, Obaseki said his administration will continue to explore all avenue in resolving the crisis rocking the state chapter of the APC. The governor said this while responding to the call by the President of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria and Archbishop of Benin Archdiocese, Most Rev Dr. Augustine Akubeze, who in a homily, urged the governor to settle grievances with Oshiomhole. The governor had joined other well-wishers and dignitaries to celebrate with the Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon Comrade Philip Shaibu, during Comrade Shaibu’s 50th birthday thanksgiving at St Paul’s Catholic Church, in Benin City. Obaseki said he had in the past heeded to the call by the Archbishop to make peace with the APC national chairman, noting, “The last time I was in this church was during the 80th birthday of our elder statesman, Chief John Odigie, and the priest raised certain concerns. To tell you how seriously we take your views, I went to Iyamoh with members of my cabinet and political party to pursue peace. I want to assure you that we will continue to pursue peace. “We have been in this situation for more than six months and it is very difficult to change people’s views. One of my commissioners said, ‘you can only have a current champion and you cannot have a permanent champion,” the governor said. He added that it was difficult for members of Edo State chapter of the APC to accept that godfatherism is good for the Nigerian politics, noting, “If we said 12 years ago that godfatherism is not good for our politics, 12 years after, it is difficult for us to change and accept that godfatherism is now good. “These are some of the challenges we face. But we will continue to pray and seek peace,” he said. Obaseki implored the church to appeal to members of the Edo State House of Assembly who were yet to resume their duties to do so. In a related development, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2016 governorship election in Edo State, has advised Governor Obaseki not to allow himself to be distracted with the political crisis in the state. Addressing journalists, Ize-Iyamu, who gave reasons why he dumped the PDP for APC, said nobody should pray for the failure of the governor as doing so will have a negative impact on the state as a whole. According to him, Obaseki is allowing himself to be distracted by the crisis instead of focusing on governance. “To say that the governor is not doing well is a sweeping statement. To be honest, in some areas he has done well, and in other areas he has not done well. I also think he has allowed the political crisis in the state to distract him. “It is one thing to start well and another thing to finish badly. The momentum has almost come to a halt and the people are impatient. They want development and projects. The only way one can truly assess him is to look at it sectorially”. “He still has almost one year to go, so it is only then that one can assess him well. I pray that he does well because it is for the benefit of Edo people. If he fails, it is to the detriment of Edo people too. “No one should pray that he fails because it will have grave consequences on all of us. I pray that he should succeed. I think he should focus more on governance and not allow the situation to distract him”, he said.