P/Harcourt – Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has reiterated that it took the intervention of God to rescue the state from the hands of wicked politicians who conspired to unleash mayhem in the last general elections.
Speaking on Friday during the Commissioning and Dedication Service of the 14,000 seater-capacity Church Building of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, South-South 1 Region at Rumuola, Port Harcourt, Governor Wike said the evil forces unleashed war on Rivers State during the 2019 General Elections, but God conquered them.
“God fought our battles and conquered our enemies. I saw war, but God fought the war for the people of Rivers State. I have handed over the state to God and men of God like Dr Daniel Olukoye deserve our respect and prayers.”
He said when it mattered most, Christians rose up and prayed for Rivers State and God answered the prayers, checking the political detractors in the process.
“God has shown that he is God. God has used men of God like Dr Olukoya to pray for Rivers State. God will never depart from Rivers State,” he said.
Governor Wike reiterated that Rivers State is a Christian State. He noted that hundreds of planted editorials in National Newspapers will not shake the resolve that Rivers is a Christian State.
“I repeat it once again that Rivers State is a Christian State. We will continue to promote the will of God for Rivers State. We are standing on a solid ground and we shall continue to grow. Let’s continue to praise God for all his benefits.”
Governor Wike urged the church to fully participate in the politics of the country to determine its direction.
He said that Christians cannot afford to look the other way whilst others hijack the political terrain and impose bad governance on the country.
“You must stand up and decide the direction of the country. Register to vote and come out to vote. You must ensure that your votes are counted.
“The Christian Church must be part of the process to transform the country. The Church and her numbers, must participate in the democratic process,” he said.
He praised the leaders of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries for citing the 14000 capacity Church in Rivers State, saying they have shown their love for the state.
The General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, Dr Daniel Olukoya led the Rivers State Governor on a tour of facilities in the Church.
He prayed God to continue to bless Rivers State and protect the governor.