PETER EDEMA; (WITH AGENCY REPORTS) Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp signed a new deal with the club that will run until 2024 on Friday, because of his desire to contribute more to the growth of the club. Klopp, who joined the Reds in October 2015, signed a new six-year contract in July 2016 and that has now been extended further. It is believed that his salary might have been increased from £7m to £10m-a-year. The new deal would make Klopp the second best paid manager in the Premier League – £5m short of Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola who is understood to earn £15m-a-year. Klopp’s decision will have been influenced not only by the support he has received from the owners, but the talent in his squad. Many of his senior players have made a similar commitment until 2024. It also ensures those players Liverpool seek to sign over the next few years can be sure they will work under Klopp – he has proven one of the major draws for those entering negotiations. His assistants, Peter Krawietz and Pep Lijnders, have also extended their deals. “When I see the development of the club and the collaborative work that continues to take place, I feel my contribution can only grow,” Klopp, 52, told Liverpool’s website. “It is only with a total belief that the collaboration remains totally complementary on both sides that I am able to make this commitment to 2024. “If I didn’t, I would not be re-signing.” According to the coach, “This club is in such a good place, I couldn’t contemplate leaving. “People see what happens on the pitch as a measure of our progress and although it is the best measure, it’s not the only measure. I have seen the commitment from ownership through to every aspect and function of the club you can think of.” Liverpool won the Champions League under the German last season and finished second in the Premier League. They lead the Premier League this season with an eight-point lead in pursuit of a first league title since 1990. Liverpool have also progressed through to the knockout stages of the Champions League as they attempt to defend a trophy they won in June by beating Tottenham in Madrid.