Dr Ben Nwoye is the State chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State. He spoke with journalists on the Hate Speech and Social Media bills before the National Assembly and issues affecting APC in the State. EMMA NZOMIWU brings the excerpts: There is a raging debate now in the country about hate speech and social media bills before the National Assembly. What is your position on the two contentious bills? All over the world including United States, a country which I had opportunity to live for a long time, speech are regulated. I think the contentious issue is penalty. Death penalty for hate speech which you cannot even prove is barbaric. Your senatorial candidate in Enugu East senatorial zone, Prince Lawrence Eze has returned to PDP. How do you feel about this loss by your party? We wish him well in his political journey. Many people think that joining an opposition party is simple. But it lends credence to people like us who have been the alternative voice for so many years. They think that if they don’t get what they want from one particular party, they can just go and make noise in another party. And many think that they can use that as a balancing effect to get what they want. But politics is not about personal desire. Politics is also about principle, about the people you serve, about the character. And so, the question is, the good news about it is that he joined the party alone and he left the party alone. He joined the party to contest for senatorial election and we supported him. And he got our ticket even though the court took the ticket away from him. So, several factors must have informed his departure. But at the end of the day, up to Supreme Court, the ticket he got was nullified. If he had been elected, it would have also been nullified. Princess Ogbu had been declared by court of competent jurisdiction to be our candidate. And as a man of law and order, we respect the law. As it is, Prince Lawrence Eze is not the senatorial candidate of APC. So, he joined as somebody who had left PDP and contested for senate seat in APC. But under the law, our senatorial candidate is Princess Ogbu. So, whatever informed his decision to leave the party, I believe has nothing to do with principle or with political ideology. But he cited Enugu APC not putting its house in order as the reason for his departure, is that reason not cogent enough? I saw the statement he issued and I saw where he talked about APC putting its house in order but he was not specific about putting its house in order. Was APC not in order when he left PDP where he came distant fourth or fifth in the primaries to join APC? And we were magnanimous enough to offer him a platform to run. If he had changed his political platform for whatever personal reason, he has no business talking about APC putting its house in order. Was the house not in order when we were campaigning with him? When we had Senator Ken Nnamani campaigning with him; when we had Senator Jim Nwobodo campaigning for him; when my humble self was following him, was APC not in order when we gave him the platform at the stadium; when he had opportunity to meet with Mr. President and other party chieftains. Was APC not in order when we had over 25000 people yelling “APC change” at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium? Politics is not just about win or lose. It is not about personal interest, what you can get. For those of us, yes, we have friends across the divide but when you make a choice, of course, this is part of democracy. He is a free man, you can be or not to be. He has a right to choose or not to choose. And when he made his choice; he made it freely and voluntarily. But, we will indeed not miss his presence because his time with us was a very short time and the Supreme Court has spoken. In other words, are you saying that as the time he left, he was not the former APC senatorial candidate for Enugu East senatorial zone? The court decision is clear. I don’t know. That may have affected him. I am assuming that affected him. Apparently, he joined APC for one reason and that reason is to run. When he ran, we gave him the ticket under my own leadership but the Supreme Court said otherwise. Supreme Court found reason to say that he is not the candidate. I mean this thing went all the way to Supreme Court. And recall also that he also engaged PDP in lengthy litigation with Chimaroke, trying to disqualify Distinguished Senator Chimaroke. That also he lost. Resoundingly, he lost that. So, when you have all those series of losses, sometimes it affects the psyche. If it affects the psyche, you find a balance between it. Politics is a game. It is about win and lose. If you don’t organize yourself very well, not many people can take the kind of shock people like me have taken for the past 10 years when in a state here, we have continued losing. But, when you are losing, you have hope that you are representing certain interest. That you are balancing opinion. Otherwise, it would have been PDP to PDP. But here, it is PDP to APC. We ran robust campaigns, even though we have not been lucky to win a seat. Since after the election, not much has been heard about APC in Enugu state, but across the country, the party has been recording successes in Kogi, Bayelsa amongst others. Why is it so? You have said it all. We have been recording successes across the country. What is it that should be heard about Enugu? There is no election. If there is election, parties are there to present candidates. You, see, party is not a socio-cultural organization that will just start making noise. We are there. Has there been election that we didn’t participate in. The answer is no. At one time, there was agitation to have the local government election. You did a report on that and I told you our position on it and so far, as the law stands, it is the prerogative of the state electoral commission to call for election. Whereby they have failed to call for election, we can’t go against the law. Some people even within my own party have called and I said, ‘you can’t just organize primaries because the law is clear. You can’t wake up and organize primaries for local government election without a legal framework. There has to be a timetable and it has to emanate from somewhere. And without it, you cannot go and conduct anything. You will not hear much from any political party unless at some point, you have political activities going on. I was in Kogi. I was in Bayelsa. It is my job as a party chieftain to help out wherever we are having activity, to see if they can get elected. Those are the kind of jobs we do. If they had any election somewhere we can help, we go there and help. It is not election year. It is time for governance. During governance, partisan politics is slowed down. It is only those who don’t understand political process that think that causing trouble and making unnecessary noise and accusation is called opposition. They want you to be sitting down and abusing a sitting incumbent Governor, that is opposition.