Engr. Adedeji Doherty is the factional chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Lagos state chapter. He spoke with select journalists on the state of the party and other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Can you tell the state of your party presently in Lagos? Everyone is here, the chairman of chairman, Sunday Olaifa is here with all the chairman of the local government in Lagos State, the legal officer, all principal officers of the party are here. I will tell you that all the members of the State executive council are here and have been me the necessary support as the chairman. We are all set to take the party to greater heights. We have seen so much going on within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State. There has been lukewarm attitude towards the issues in the State. We have seen issues going in within the State government. We have also seen that PDP in the past has not taken its rightful position as a strong opposition, however under the new dawn in PDP, I would like to assure you journalist and also to the world that we are now ready to take our rightful position as a strong opposition in Lagos State and I must say that what has prompted that is the fact that APC State chairman, Tunde Balogun in one of his interviews was quoted as saying that the party was destined not to win elections in the State. I must also say that all our members who left for APC are not seen as people who defected but as people who have gone on a journey and would soon return to the fold. They will return back home and what we are doing is to set the stage. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network How do you think that your party can pull through in Lagos, with APC been on ground in the past 20 years? Lagosians are not happy, they are disenchanted. In Lagos where you have over 20 million people, only one million people vote during elections that would tell you that they don’t believe that their votes would count. They have been subverted under a regime of oppression, depression, a regime that does not give hope. Infrastructural deficits, not commensurate with the income that accrues to the State, Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), bonds, treasury bills, all the instruments of that have been coming to the State since 199. Compare it with the development. We must ask ourselves valid questions, are we happy? The answer is, no. I am not speaking as a politician because I am a son of the soil. I am a Lagosian and I have a stake in this State. My grandfathers were part of those that pressurized the federal government to create Lagos State. My grandfather was one of those that even signed the declaration of Lagos State. When I am talking, I’m talking as a citizen of Lagos State as well as a stakeholder. I am talking as one who is not happy with what is going on. I want a change, not only for myself but also for the younger generation. Don’t you think that the problem of PDP, not being able to win elections in the State has been that of the party? My emergence as chairman of this party is what you should look at. The National Working Committee (NWC) of the party headed by Prince Uche Secondus, sent a fact-finding body headed by Senator Ben Obi to find out what was wrong with Lagos PDP and at the end of the day, it was discovered that constant imposition was the bane of our problem. It was almost like what happened in Bayelsa, why PDP lost Bayelsa and so Uche Secondus decided that there would be an election into these vacant positions, and we followed the constitution. He stressed that the process by which anyone would emerge, would not be by imposition, selection or nomination. It would be by the people themselves, to elect who becomes the chairman and that was what happened in my case. All the vacant executive positions were all voted for and everyone was present. There would still be some like in PDP and even in APC, who are moles, whose roles would be to create chaos. We have already identified them and put them in the cooler. You can see that there is change; this time around we have about 85 percent unified members. Since I emerged three court cases by members have been withdrawn. I would call one and say, do you want me to succeed? He would answer in the affirmative, then I would ask him to go and withdraw his case and that is what has happened so far. The former State chairman of the party, Dr. Adegbola Dominic said he has a case fixed for February next year, stating his displeasure with an election when there was a court order against that. What can you say to that? They went to court to obtain an exparte order, and the Judge specifically said she would not get involved based on the Supreme Court judgment of Makarfi and Sheriff, stating that the court did not have jurisdiction over internal matters of the party. However, you have come to court to tell a story that there would be mayhem and people were going to die. When you write that kind of petition, the court would definitely do something for the sake of peace. I will say from my knowledge which has not been proved wrong, they did not serve the defendants the following day. The court day was fixed and unfortunately that same day, we were supposed to be in court with Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) concerning Zamfara State, and it was the same lawyer. We have to give preference to the Zamfara case. He did not make necessary preparation for the Lagos case. The other lawyer sought that they should remand us in prison. The court then said that we should come and explain why we should not be put in jail, according to their request. I think that is where they stopped; the case has been adjoined till February. What are the political solutions to the issues that you just pointed out, especially the case of lack of infrastructures in Lagos State in the past 20 years? I would say, yes. There have been discussions and negotiations going on here and there. We have been able to establish some parameters of truth. You can remember that in South Africa when late Nelson Mandela came on board as the president, he formed the truth and reconciliation commission, because the truth must always set one free. Lagos PDP has been caged for a long time and it is the truth that will set Lagos PDP free. We are consulting with our leaders and we are begging them to see reason with us on different issues and we have been able to convince them that we can do it, once we have the support and necessary tools. We will get there with time when at least 90 percent of our leaders would be behind us. What is the position of Chief Bode George regarding what is happening now at the party? Chief Bode George is our father. You cannot even equate him on State issues because he is at the national level. He is in the position where everybody comes and request advice. He has been misled for a while but he is beginning to know the truth. I am not in a position to answer or talk about Chief Bode George; everyone knows that Chief Bode George is the grand patron of PDP in Lagos State. He is so loyal and so attached to PDP that sometimes if you tell him something, he can be misled. Doherty