UMUAHIA – About three months after the death of his wife, Sally, the father of Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), HRH Eze Israel Okwu Kanu of Isiama Afaraukwu Ibeku, Umuahia North LGA of Abia State is dead. His death was announced yesterday by HRH Eze Edward Ibeawuchi of Okwulaga Community, on behalf of the Afaraukwu Traditional Council. Aged 86, Eze Kanu has been ill since the invasion of his home by security operatives on September 14, 2017. The Palace whose front wing is being occupied by his eldest son, Nnamdi was substantially damaged by the military during the invasion, leading the monarch to flee the house with his wife to an unknown destination. Emmanuel, Nnamdi younger brother confirmed the death of his father and added that the family would soon meet over the matter. In his reaction, the Abia State government described his death as shocking. A statement by the State Commissioner of Information and Strategy, Chief John Okiyi Kalu explained that the late monarch made useful contributions to not only Afaraukwu community, but Abia State in general. The statement reads, “It was with rude shock that we learnt of the passing on of one of our great royal fathers, HRM Eze Sir I.O. Kanu, the Egwu Ukwu II of Afaraukwu Ibeku, at the age of 86 years. “His unwavering love and sterling contributions to the development of his community in particular, and Abia State in general, are well documented. No doubt, HRM left a lasting legacy and an indelible impression on the minds of Ndigbo everywhere in the world. “Death is not the end of man but a necessary passage to a better place in eternity where there is no strife, sorrow or pain. Indeed, Papa has only gone to that better place, and in his usual manner while on earth here, he is praying for all of us from above, especially for the peace, unity and progress of not just his community but also of our State and Alaigbo. “This should be our consolation so that his beloved family and community he left behind do not continue to weep since we all know that he is resting peacefully now. “As a government, we assure the family of late Eze Sir I.O. Kanu and Afaraukwu community of our continued support in all ways we can to help ameliorate the pains of his departure.”