ENUGU – Pan Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, on Saturday insisted that the government of President Muhammadu Buhari lacks economic direction from its inception in 2015. Ohanaeze equally expressed doubts that Buhari uses the economic committee he used to displace Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Ohaneze spoke in reaction to the statement by former President Olusegun Obasanjo that Nigeria risks bankruptcy with its penchant for loans under President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Obasanjo had in a forum at Lagos said Nigeria’s debt situation is closer to the situation in the 1970’s and 80’s that led the country and the African continent as a into unserviceable debts The former President warned that if the current direction of things was not improved, Nigeria might become the poorest country in the world. Reacting, Chief Emeka Atama, the media adviser to the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, said Obasanjo couldn’t be far from the truth, as there has been no discernible economic policy or roadmap that is a pointer to go Buhari’s economic direction since the inception of his administration. “It has been a staccato and somersault economic policy. It is doubtful if he (Buhari) uses the economic committee he used to displace VP Osinbajo. “He wakes up any day to introduce one ban of product without adequate arrangement for a locally sufficient alternative. There are a lot of inconsistencies. Economic policies are usually short term, medium term and long term. We have nothing of that sort under the Buhari government,” Atama said. While the former President had noted that it might not be totally wrong to take loans to finance growth and development, such decisions according to him, ought to come with high degree of discipline, responsibility and foresight, but the Nigerian government is “notoriously deficient in serious and adequate disciple and most often lack competence and consistency.” Obasanjo said as at 2015, total external debt was about $10.32billion, but in four years it grew to N24,947 trillion or $81.274billion. He urged Nigerians to rise up in one voice and call on the National Assembly to rise up to its core duty and responsibility and save our children and grand children and great grand children from being mired in debt.