Sometimes in the last two months it was rumoured that coach Gernot Rohr may be having a face-off with his employers, the Nigeria football Federation(NFF) as regards his contract renewal and backlog of unpaid salaries cum interference of choice of players for the Super Eagles. Although this unconfirmed rumour over Rohr’s sack, as it were, was peddled then and was dismissed by the spokesperson of glasshouse, Olajire. Having denied all these perceived rumours by the glasshouse, it is becoming very obvious that our thinking as regard the impasse between the Super Eagles coach and his employers is coming to the public domain in the very true position, given outburst of Rohr recently in the media when he claimed the federation is owing him salaries totaling the sum of $100,000 dollars; although the nation’s football governing body had denied that figure but said he is being owed about $30,000 dollars. This trivial admittance by the federation goes a long way to confirm the foreign manager’s disposition. It is also on record that Rohr has so much disdain for the Nigerian League and players as he has said in various occasions that there is no good enough players in the local league, therefore his focus has always been on foreign based professionals whom he rely so much on. Although such players are operating in second and third tier leagues in the globe it is not an issue to Rohr. Yours truly has written several discourse on Rohr saying he is a ”lazy” coach and was never ready to develop Nigeria’s football; rather he is here to win gains as a stepping stone for a better contract outside Nigeria: hence his reasons for jettisoning Nigeria local professionals for his selfish interest and to the detriment of our developmental football. I mean what I have just said of Rohr and it is evident in his approach toward the Eagles. Go round the world, get players, assemble them to win a laurel, yet Rohr has no standing team! I stand to be corrected on this! It is on record that Rohr had coached in Burkina Faso and Niger and made no impact on these teams, the Stallions and the Mena respectively before his employment in Nigeria. But he came, he saw and has not conquered, in my football opinion. He was able to make some “flashes” with the Eagles especially at the last AFCON championship in Egypt because of the abundant talents in Nigeria, which he has not been able to properly manage, discover and to rediscover. In spite of all that, against every expectation, Rohr couldn’t win the trophy but came with a consolatory bronze medal. He did qualify the Eagles for Russia 2018 but his acting in that FIFA tourney was very abysmal. His Eagles played like debutant in the games, even the glasshouse was shrouded in controversy of allegations of corruption and money scandals; that too was a serious distraction, which also affected the team’s overall performance and a knock on the administration of the president Amaju led glasshouse. Although, Nigeria was first country to qualify in Africa for that FIFA championship in Russia that did not translate the team to a positive side! Rohr could not succeed at all in Burkina Faso and Niger because they have no players anywhere in the world like you have Nigerians scattered all over big and small countries in Europe, Asia and America. And on capitalising on this premise he could afford to gamble, guess, select right or wrong as the case may be in his match executions. Sometimes, it pays him off positively; sometimes he gets the worst formation and fails. So, his business in Nigeria is very simple gamble to win or guess to lose – this is the attribute of “Lazy” coaches across the globe! And for Rohr not looking inwards our league, it means he is not ready for Nigeria. The NFF who brought him knew where he was picked from; he never recorded any success; so what was the yardstick for his employment? Could it be that the NFF needed just a foreign coach as at the time coach Sunday Oliseh absconded or that Rohr was just cheap to hire so that the NFF could be seen doing something different after Oliseh bolted away? Too many questions begging for answers surrounding the quality of Coach Gernot Rohr is! May God help this glasshouse over Nigeria’s football future and its development. Good Morning Nigeria.