LAGOS – The crisis rocking the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the supremacy battle between the state governor, Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, has reached its crescendo. The calamity befalling the party has continued to take new dimensions by the day, especially with the official crossing over of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the APC.
Ize-Iyamu, the former Secretary to Edo State Government and governorship candidate of the PDP in 2016 governorship election, on December 12, 2019, joined the ruling APC in Edo less than 24 hours after he tendered his resignation letter to the state Chairman of the PDP in the state, Dan Orbih.
With less than seven months to the 2020 governorship election in the state, the search for possible “replacement” of Obaseki has become glaring due to the bickering between him Oshiomhole.
Oshiomole and Obaseki, have been in supremacy battle over the latter’s second term bid following the squabble between the duo. The governor, it was gathered, was accused of not “patronizing” party leaders, especially Oshiomhole’s foot soldiers after helping him to win the 2016 governorship election.
After being sworn-in, Obaseki allegedly introduced a new order, which banned politicians and party leaders from the government house and declared that the state resources is not meant for sharing but for the development of the state.
Oshiomhole felt betrayed by the decision of Obaseki, which forced him to begin a move to start shopping for a possible replacement for Obaseki. This also led to the formation of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), by APC members believed to be loyal to Oshiomhole.
In the course of shopping for Obaseki’s likely replacement, names like Chris Ogiewonyi, Charles Airhiavbere, Pius Odubu and Hosa Okunbo, among others came up.
However, Oshiomhole was alleged to have secretly met with Okunbo to become Obaseki’s replacement based on his financial muscle and because of the conviction that he can sponsor the election if Obaseki eventually loses the ticket.
Okunbo was said to have rejected the offer but requested that Ize-Iyamu be drafted into the APC and possibly given the ticket before rendering any help. Oshiomhole, however, later met Ize-Iyamu where it was agreed that Obaseki would not get the APC ticket.
Ize-Iyamu had been at loggerheads with his former party, the PDP in the state, and this led to his eventual crossover to the APC. While speaking on his reason for leaving the PDP, the pastor-cum politician said he succumbed to pressure from his supporters because of the disarray within the rank of the PDP.
He said that having done his best to reconcile the warring parties within the PDP without success, he decided to call it quit and was fully set to join the APC.
Ize-Iyamu said as a founding member of the Action Congress (AC), which metamorphosed into the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and later the APC following the merger of several parties, he was merely returning home and not defecting.
“It is true that I am leaving the PDP for the APC. I am not defecting but merely returning home. I am quitting the PDP because of the too many problems bedeviling the party, which I have tried in my own way to resolve without success. It is not a rumour, I am going back home to APC,” he said.
Few weeks ago, thousands of Ize-Iyamu’s supporters formally resigned their membership of the PDP and defected to the APC.
Former Speaker of Edo House of Assembly, Bright Omokhodion, moved the motion for their defection which was supported by Festus Ebea from Edo Central Senatorial District, Emma Momoh, Edo North and Dr. Tawa Idubor for Edo South.
Ize-Iyamu said they were joining the party to fulfill their ambition of making life more meaningful for their people.
“We are going into the APC with good intentions; we are not going there to join factions. We are going to join the APC, we are going there to help strengthen the party and we intend to give our full allegiance to those in charge, those in authority. We will not undermine the powers that be; we will not join in any fight or name calling but we have come with the best of intentions.
“Well, you will recall that I was one of those who actually formed the APC not only in Edo State, but even in Nigeria. I played a major role in the merger committee that finally led to the APC coming together as a political party and, of course, one would have expected that I would still have been able to bring all the major political parties together to form a very big political party. But as it is obvious, the reason I left was completely a local issue, politics is local. I had some disagreement at the local level.
“A lot of my members and friends were aggrieved. We felt that there was a deliberate attempt to undermine us by those who felt threatened by what they perceived would be our ambition in the future. So, people were so aggrieved, we left. To be honest, we left the party with anger and we did not hide it. If you play back some of the statements we made then, you will know that it was misunderstanding that was not able to be resolved that led us to it. But you know time is a healer of wounds. You know the Bible says blessed are the peacemakers and over time too, quite a number of well-meaning people from the other side in the state and at the national level have also been reaching out to us, saying ‘look, Pastor, you and your friends were some of the key people that put the APC together and yes we understand that you were angry then, but it’s been a while, by now you ought to have returned home. We want you and we believe you have a role to play, we will welcome you back and for us, your coming back to our party cannot be seen as if you are decamping to our party and how can you be decamping to a party you formed? It is not a new home for you at all, everybody knows you at the state, at the national, even at the local government level. So, please come back.
“Then, I was initially apprehensive because when you pray, you say may affliction not rise up again the second time. You want to be sure that all these misunderstandings do not occur again, but the reality is that, as human beings, misunderstanding must happen but I think what is important is to have way to resolve them rather than just walking away. I think we have all learnt our lessons. We are wiser to some extent and I expect that we go back now with a broader perspective. I think the past is more or less behind us and we look forward to the future,” Ize-Iyamu said in an interview.
Many political observers have continued to follow the intrigues going in the state hoping to see who will have the last laugh between Obaseki and Oshiomhole who has fully thrown his weight behind the pastor to clinch the APC ticket.
Some of these political watchers in the state have come up with different permutations as to what would have led to Pastor Ize-Iyamu joining the APC after so many years of acrimony between him and Oshiomhole, to whom many years before Ize-Iyamu had served as a Director General for his governorship campaign but fell out with him shortly after Oshiomhole came into office.
The loudest of arguments in the debate is the fact that Oshiomhole had shopped for candidates to replace Obaseki within his team but could not find anyone with enough political capital and network to match the force and popularity of Governor Obaseki.
Though, Obaseki had on several occasions claimed that no one can prevent him from running for a second term in office, the governor at some point said, “I have endured so much as governor. As governor, I have not been able to even nominate somebody for a federal appointment and federal appointments are made every day. I will sit down they will call me from the Senate. ‘Are you aware of this?’ I keep quiet. I have said it that at the end of the day, I only have one mandate to serve Edo people and as long as God has given me this opportunity, I will not allow Edo State to be a pawn in anybody’s political chess game,” he said.
Obaseki, while declaring why he deserves a second term in office, said he has fulfilled most of his promises to Edo people, just as he said he needed to consolidate his developmental strides in the state, emphasising that his re-election is “not negotiable.”
He noted that “no individual can determine who will become governor. Only God and the people can make the decision. I have said it clearly and I told my cabinet members that the second term for me is non-negotiable. I am demanding it because I deserve it and I think I have earned it. We need to have it so we can continue what we are doing today.
“I want to assure you that this is a fight in which we will prevail. We will fight and succeed. If anybody thinks I will back out, he must be day-dreaming because it is not my fight; it is a fight for the right purpose. I am not going to back off because I know victory is sure,” the governor said.
He added that nobody could accuse him of implementing a wrong policy, adding that the accusation had been on him not focusing on stomach infrastructure.
“We earn less today than we did in 2016 when we came into power, so where is the money to waste? We know how much we inherited as debt; we have to service them. Some people sit and say we should focus on stomach infrastructure. I said no, that I would rather focus on mental infrastructure,” he added.
Sources within the party in the state revealed that Oshiomhole has been doing everything possible to secure the ticket for Ize-Iyamu.
“Oshiomhole is very desperate to deny Obaseki the second term ticket and he is working underground to lobby those who matter in the state to get the needed vote for Ize-Iyamu when the time comes.
“Initially, people were having a feeling that Obaseki was going to leave the party for him but I can tell you that at this point, the governor is battle ready to drag it to the end with Oshiomhole. And from the look of things, Obaseki might end up having his way because he is on daily basis gathering the supports of those leaders. Even at the national level where Oshiomhole is expected to have influence, he is beginning to lose it and I don’t know how he intends to make it,” said a source who is close to Obaseki.
According to another source, who is a strong chieftain of the APC in Edo State, “The truth of the matter is that Oshiomhole betrayed many of us. Whatever Obaseki has become today, Oshiomhole made him so.”
A chieftain of the party in the state, Andrew Osawaru, recently warned the APC national chairman, against working for Ize-Iyamu, saying Oshiomole would be making the greatest mistake of his life, if he decides to work with those who plotted to impeach him when he was governor of the state.
Osawaru noted that the state deputy governor, Philip Shaibu, who Oshiomhole now sees as a betrayal, stood by him and fought the new friends of Oshiomhole with his blood.
He alleged that the new friends of Oshiomhole were the same people that led thugs to invade the House of Assembly in order to impeach him (Oshiomhole) but were resisted by Shaibu.
He noted that Oshiomhole may be the major loser as he would no longer have the formidable support he enjoyed from Edo North prior to the 2012 election, as he has balkanized the party and betrayed his political son for those who plotted his impeachment.
He further alleged that these new friends have already perfected plans to pay the national chairman back in his own coin for the humiliation they suffered from him when he held sway as the governor of the state.
According to him, “It is fast becoming evidently clear that after the next governorship election in Edo State, and obviously before the next Presidential election in Nigeria, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole would have been shoved into a state of political irrelevance.
“Edo state political gladiators are earnestly waiting for Comrade Oshiomhole to explain publicly, how a man whom he described on July 24, 2016, as a pathological liar and a dubious pastor that masterminded the looting of Edo State resources during the reign of Chief Lucky Igbinedion as the State Governor now suddenly turned a saint that can be accorded any political trust and relevance.
“While some people are already talking about Oshiomhole’s overbearing influence in the affairs of the state, others are talking about how he will be cut to size by his new found friends after handing over the party’s ticket to them.”
He said there is already an uneasy calm among supporters of Gen. Charles Airhiavbere and Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi and other members of the Edo Peoples Movement, on why Oshiomhole and others “will impose on the people, Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu, who left the party.”
He added “The battle may have just began as the disintegration in the party will be full-blown in the days and weeks ahead as supporters of various aspirants, including Governor Godwin Obaseki’s supporters will want to outdo each other with series of blackmail that will involve sponsors/aspirants.
“Those who decamped with Pastor Ize-Iyamu claimed to have returned to occupy their former house, those who claimed to have built the house and stayed with Comrade Oshiomhole are flexing muscles to fight to finish, as the new decamped members cannot come and take over what they had earlier destroyed with lots of crises.
“While some people are already talking about Oshiomhole’s overbearing influence in the affairs of the state, with the imposition of over seven commissioners that were recently sacked, others are talking about how he will be cut to size by a man he once defamed, should the party ticket be handed over to Ize-Iyamu.
“With the calculations ahead, Oshiomhole would be the major loser as he would no longer have the formidable support he enjoyed from Edo North prior to the 2012 election, as he has balkanized the party and betrayed his political son for marabouts.
“Worst still, those who recently decamped with Ize-Iyamu are those that fought Oshiomhole with lot of casualties at the House of Assembly and during the elections,” he added.
The battle for the APC governorship ticket will be between Obaseki and Ize-Iyamu, but it is yet unclear how the latter will slog it out with the former as Obaseki is said to be battle ready morally, spiritually, physically and financially to apply whatever it would cost him to retain his current seat at the government house after the November 2020 governorship election.