LAGOS – Following his victory at the Supreme Court, the coast is now clear for Governor Seyi Makinde to fully concentrate on his projects and fufill all the electoral promises he made to the people of Oyo state in the last general elections. During his electioneering campaign, Makinde who said his government is planning to launch a 20-year development agenda to save the state from underwhelming performance also promised to bring down ‘Omi tuntun’, ‘Fresh water’, to the state, so that residents of the state who thirst for the dividends of democracy can drink to their fill. The ‘fresh water’ is expected to fall on critical areas like education, agriculture and food security, health care, infrastructure, youth empowerment, and percolate down through populist policies to the dry mouths of the citizens. Many had claimed the decision of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to challenge the verdict of the March 9 governorship election in the state which was won by Makinde, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was an attempt to distract him from focusing on his task of repositioning the state. To them, Makinde won the election fair and square and they hinged their claims on the under-performance of the immediate past government under Abiola Ajimobi and the coalition of political parties in the state who all gave their overwhelming support to Makinde in the election. That has now been finally laid to rest with the Supreme Court verdict. The landmark judgment finally put to rest the controversy that has trailed the judgment of the Appeal Court in November after the justices ruled that the appeal by Bayo Adelabu, his main challenger and the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) “subsists.” The court also set aside the judgment delivered by the Election Petitions’ Tribunal that upheld the election of Makinde as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). It ordered that the status quo before the tribunal’s judgment should remain, saying that it would have ordered a retrial at the tribunal if not for the time limit of 180 days for the tribunal. The court ruled that the judgment of the lower tribunal that dismissed Adelabu’s petition against Makinde’s election as the governor was perverse and set the judgment aside. Three of the four-man panel of the Court of Appeal resolved all issues in favour of the appellants, but there was a dissenting judgment from a judge with a proviso that the panel could not nullify Makinde’s election. Following the appeal rule, Adelabu and the APC said the judgment is in his favour and sought to get a final verdict at the Supreme Court. However on Wednesday, a seven-man panel of the apex court led by Justice Mary Peter-Odili, unanimously affirmed Makinde as the duly elected governor of Oyo State. Giving a summary of the lead judgment, Justice Ejembi upheld Makinde’s appeal and overturned the November 11, 2019 judgment of the Ibadan Division of the Court of Appeal which had partly ruled in favour of the All Progressives Congress and its governorship candidate, Adebayo Adelabu. In upturning the Court of Appeal’s majority judgment of four against one, the apex court restored the judgment of the Oyo State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal which had declared Makinde and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party, the winner of the election. Justice Eko said, “After going through the briefs of arguments, I find merit in this appeal. The judgment of the lower court is mainly based on perversity. The majority judgment is hereby set aside”. Reacting to his victory, Governor Makinde, who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa, said the judgment made it clear that truth could not be coloured. He said, “Those who had thought that the truth could be coloured at the tribunal or in the court have seen beyond reasonable doubt that the truth has only one colour which is constant. This fact has been demonstrated by the judgment of the Supreme Court. “The victory has just confirmed the fact that power belongs to the people and to God, of course. Indeed, power belongs to God and the people had expressed their decision through the power of the thumbs at the poll. It is only through the poll that one can emerge victorious in an election, not through the backdoor.” “The Supreme Court, also referred to as the judiciary in this case, has demonstrated that court is truly the arbiter of the people. Speaking shortly after the judgment, the PDP in Oyo state in a statement issued by its Publicity Secretary, Engr. Akeem Olatunji, said the verdict reaffirmed the general acceptance of PDP and the Governor, Engr Seyi Makinde, as reflected in the landslide victory recorded at the March, 2019 election in Oyo State. The party said the report of celebrations across the state at the breaking of the news of the verdict was a testimony that, indeed, justice was upheld in the ruling. The statement read: “The PDP in Oyo State salutes the steadfastness and unalloyed support exhibited by the party members and most especially the good people of Oyo State while the unnecessary litigation was going on. “The support and solidarity from the people were massive and they made the mandate given to Governor Makinde untouchable. This, we commend and view as a positive step in our democratic experience, as it became evident that, indeed, the voice of the people would always prevail over the forces of darkness whenever the people stand for what is right. “Even though the major intentions of APC and its candidate were to distract Governor Seyi Makinde in his avowed commitment to deliver dividends of democracy to the nook and crannies of Oyo State, the Governor has summoned courage and has continued to deliver on his electoral promises to the surprise of the opposition. “We are using this opportunity to assure the people of the State that the Governor, as he continued to restate at every given opportunity, will not relent in his determination to develop the State and bring about unprecedented development. “The judgment of the Supreme Court has come at the right time and it can only be an encouragement for the PDP government in Oyo State to consolidate the path of progress and development which Governor Makinde’s administration has designed in its determination to transform Oyo State to an economic hub of Nigeria.” Also speaking, Hon. Babatunde Oduyoye, Special Adviser on Strategy and Political Matters, described the judgment as a triumph for justice and the power of the people to democratically determine their leaders. According to Oduyoye, the unanimous judgment by the Supreme Court “confirmed that technicalities cannot take the place of the people’s power and that only the ballot box can determine the fate of political office holders.” “We are happy that the Supreme Court has affirmed what we knew all along- that the people of Oyo State overwhelmingly voted for Governor Seyi Makinde in a free, fair and credible election on March 9, 2019, when they elected him with over 515,621. “Today, the shameless voyage embarked upon by peddlers of lies and desperation in Oyo State politics came to a decisive end with the unanimous judgment of the Supreme Court, which validated the election of Governor Seyi Makinde. “That judgment, in which all seven justices of the apex court agreed with the ruling of the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal in Oyo State and the minority judgement of the Court of Appeal, that Governor Makinde had, indeed, won the election and that the All Progressives Congress (APC) failed to prove its case, is a triumph of justice and fairness. It is a vindication of the people, who voted for massively for Governor Makinde. “Now that the people have won, as Governor Makinde’s victory is a victory for the good people of Oyo State, who have been enjoying good times under his leadership, the Governor is prepared to continue to deliver on his promises to the electorate”. In his remark, Elder Moses Alayande, a chieftain of the APC in Oyo said “Now that there is no controversy over the election again and all legal encumbrances has been settled , the ball is now in Makinde’ s court to continue with his Omi Tuntun agenda for the people of Oyo state. We will continue to hold him to his promises” he said. Makinde