ADO-EKITI – Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has cautioned that culture should not be mistaken for idol worshipping or promotion of fetish objects as it is a vehicle for sustaining the people’s identity. The governor who spoke at the grand finale of Ekiti State Festival for Arts and Culture (EKIFEST) also urged the youths to embrace agriculture which he described as an important cultural heritage of the people of the state. Fayemi also enjoined the Ekitis to preserve their cultural heritage which he said has the potentials of generating employment opportunities and boosting the economy in the grassroots. Represented by the deputy governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, Fayemi said many of the products exhibited at EKIFEST like plantains, yams, mats and wood used to produce sculptures were made possible by agriculture. According to a statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, the three-day festival had as its theme: ‘Arts and Culture, Tools for Restoration of Values and Socio-Economic Development’. The cultural fiesta, which drew participants from within and outside the state was also attended by the Ekiti First Lady, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, top government functionaries, culture icons, Nollywood actors, music stars and other artistes. Fayemi urged the youths not to see politics as a full-time profession but to take advantage of government investment in agriculture to economically empower themselves. He noted that EKIFEST offered another opportunity to awaken the interest of the youths on agriculture and production of handcrafts which are capable of turning them to owners of their businesses. Government, he said, would assist the youths to clear the land and provide them with credit facilities needed to boost commercial agriculture in the state to generate jobs and ensure food security. Erelu Fayemi, who was the Chairperson of EKIFEST Local Organising Committee, urged Ekiti people to preserve their culture to protect their identity. The governor’s wife explained that local artifacts, songs, dances, attires and physical features like hills which dot the landscape of the state have potentials to attract tourists from all parts of the world. MICHAEL DAVID LAFIA The Implementing Partners on HIV infection has started stepped-up efforts towards tracking over twenty two thousand unidentified HIV infected persons in Nasarawa State. Dr. Terfa Kene gave this indication in Akwanga, Nasarawa State, at the end of a five-day workshop to develop an annual Operational Plan 2020 to fight against HIV AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases in the state. The meeting had representatives from Global Funds, Catholic Relief Services, Institute of Human Virology Nigeria, Achieving Health Nigeria Initiative, officials from the Ministry of Health, Nasarawa State, Civil Society Organizations, among others. He said the 2020 Operational Plan on HIV AIDS would focus mainly on finding and tracking unidentified HIV patients to address their unmet needs for treatment. Terfa applauded the Nasarawa State Government for its commitment to contain the spread of HIV AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases in the state over the years. Also speaking, the North Central Zonal Team Leader of Achieving Health Nigeria Initiative, Olukunle Daramola, noted that they would work closely with other partners to ensure seamless implementation of the 2020 Plan for HIV AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases to achieve zero percent spread of the virus. Nasarawa State Coordinator, Network of People Living with HIV AIDS, Mr. Philip Lokoko, expressed delight over the level of commitment by international donors in the fight against HIV AIDS in the state. He appealed to health personnel, especially in the rural areas to desist from disclosing the HIV status of people without their consent. Lokoko also called on people living with the virus to identify themselves publicly to access assistance instead of hiding their status.