Lagos – The Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company PLC  (IBEDC), has  expressed determination to serve its customers throughout the holidays as all its offices would be open  for business. Mr John Ayodele, its chief operating officer, who gave the assurance in his Christmas message to customers on yesterday,  said alternate channels of payment such as the online, App www.ibedc.com and USSD would remain operational as usual. He, however, appealed to customers and Nigerians in general to observe safety rules during the holidays to ensure accident free celebrations. He advised parents to ensure proper supervision of children to prevent domestic and electrical accidents. “No cooking or partying under  high-tension wires .Switch off all electrical appliances not in use. No engaging of quacks to repair electrical faults. Motorists should avoid drinking under the influence to prevent collusion with electrical poles and accidents,” he advised. He said IBEDC in 2019 introduced several policies and initiatives for improved service delivery and customers’ satisfaction. He said these included the implementation of the Meter Asset Provider Scheme (MAP) to bridge the metering gap across its franchise. “The Introduction of the Advance Metering Infrastructure (AMI) on distribution transformers to allow for two-way communication between the meter and the utility provider, ensure efficient billing and outage management. “The introduction of the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) initiative routed through the Customer care line 07001239999, which gives customers better and faster access to getting their complaints resolved. “The focus and huge financial investment on safety-IBEDC ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation) 45001 Certification on Zero fatality and injury to customers and staff,” he said. He said the company also rehabilitated and upgraded over 10 major installations and substations across the franchise. He pledged that the company would consolidate on the polices and more. He urged Nigerians to imbibe the virtues and morals of the season by showing love and tolerance. Ayodele said it was time to reflect on the imagery of compassion, hope, humility and reconciliation that Jesus Christ embodied.