There is nothing to cheer for importers and exporters at the Apapa and Tin Can ports, where about 80 per cent of Nigeria’s maritime trade occur and other ports across the country. The infrastructure there is shabby. Cargo clearance is frustrating because the estimated 1.5 million containers that pass through the ports annually are being inspected by human agents. ANDREW UTULU, ISAAC ASABOR, and OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA write; It became apparent that Nigeria lacked the required scanners and security instruments used at the sea ports, airports and border stations for easier examination of cargoes and detection of foreign items in legitimate consignments when in 2017,  661 pump-action rifles were intercepted outside the port in Lagos. Instead of using scanners, officials use physical examination, which is more cumbersome and time consuming. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in 2013 inherited about $120 million scanner equipment from Cotecna, SGS Scanning Nigeria Limited and Global Scan Systems Nigeria Limited, the former service providers. These scanners prior to that time, were not even in good working condition, rather, they continued to rot away. Virtually, all inherited scanners had broken down, thus, making it mandatory for cargos to be physically examined at the ports and border stations in the country. Investigations revealed that prior to the termination of the contract of the service providers, in 2013, Cotecna, which operated at the Apapa premier port claimed to have handed over $70 million worth of scanner equipment in good condition to the Apapa Customs Command. The scanning machines, it was gathered, were installed at various customs operational locations such as Tin Can Island Port, Port Harcourt Area One Command, Onne Port, Kano, Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Seme and Idi-Oroke borders, Port Harcourt and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airports, Banki border among others. But as at 2017, the various customs locations were littered with non-functioning scanners, an indication that the service providers might have handed over faulty scanners to the customs. Indeed, about 40 to 60 containers are physically examined at Apapa port daily while between 50 and 70 are examined daily at Tin-can Island port presently. Meanwhile one scanner can take up to about 150 containers daily. Hopes were raised sometime last year when the NCS promised that some cargo scanners would be delivered in the first quarter of this year. The Comptroller-General of Customs, Hameed Ali had in June last year assured that the proposals have been submitted to the Federal Executive Council (FEC), assuring that the all-important facility would be delivered in “few months”. He said the service had presented a memorandum for approval to the FEC, and has commenced the procurement process. Ali stressed that: “By first quarter of next year, we should have scanners at the ports.” The decision to replace the scanners followed the collapse of existing scanners in the ports, which were transferred to the Nigeria Customs Service in 2014/2015, thereby resulting in physical/manual inspection on containers, prolonged cargo delays, and the payment of rent and demurrage by importer/licensed Customs Agents and attendant serious security threats. Indeed, NCS has dumped the multi-million dollar inspection machines, and has returned to 100 per cent manual examination of goods. Importers’ containers presently spend weeks at the nation’s seaports over delayed clearance, such that containers that were supposed to be cleared in seven days now spend about 22 days or more to be cleared due to the delay. The management of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) had admitted long before now that the scanners were faulty and that they are a very essential component to trade facilitation, and ensuring security at the ports. Implications on Non-Functioning Scanners The implication is that the NCS and other security agencies are now compelled to work harder if they must achieve desired goals. They now have to unstuffed consignments, and do what is called 100 per cent physical examination.  This process is very slow; it is time consuming, and it is stressful. You unstuffed to see the consignment and you reload. With the scanners, you may not need to unstuffed if your declaration is right; the image analysis confirms that what you have declared are what is seen in the scanner, you are allowed to go. Except where the image analysis indicates that there is something different from what you have declared, that is when the examiners need to do some physical examination. According to a maritime analyst, “We are presently in a regime that I will call physical examination where all containers are opened. All containers are checked because the scanners are not functioning. This is cumbersome and slow. It is also imperfect.” It would be recalled that through such physical examination, the Tin Can Island Command of NCS in 2016 intercepted some rifles, military gas mask and ammunition, military kits, caps and boots, which were concealed under the guise that they were personal effects. Many have wandered how many of such may have escaped the eagle eye of operatives of the NCS. This Command subsequently at one time or the other intercepted and seized dangerous, banned and regulated drugs, including large quantity of cocaine. Also, in January, 2017, the Federal Operations Unit, Zone ‘A’, of the Nigeria Customs Service intercepted 49 boxes laden with 661 pieces pump action rifles reportedly manufactured in Italy and shipped into Nigeria through Lagos port from Turkey. Three persons were immediately arrested in connection with the seizure. Comptroller General of Customs, Col Hameed Ali (rtd) vowed to arrest any customs officer found to be connected with arms importation and seizure. Ali said that the Federal Operations Unit, while on patrol, intercepted a Mark truck with registration number BUG 265 XG conveying a 40ft container with number PONU/82591/4 along Mile 2 Apapa Road, Lagos. The truck was immediately taken to FOU premises for physical examination and 49 boxes containing 661 pieces of pump action riffles concealed in steel doors were revealed. The customs boss admitted that lack of functional scanners could equally be responsible for the unscrupulous smugglers bringing dangerous imports into the country. He assured were on top gear for provision of modern functional scanners. In a recent rating, Trading Across Borders (TAD) rated Nigeria low (183 out of 190 countries) on Ease of Doing Business. This can be seen from the identified challenges associated with the Import-Export, regulatory and transit procedures that is encumbered with lengthy and cumbersome procedure. Taiwo Afolabi, Group Executive/Vice Chairman of SIFAX Group, said that the scanners in most ports across the country were not in a good state, making it difficult, if not impossible, for the NCS to discharge its duty of container inspection effectively. “Most scanners at our ports are either completely broken down or functioning well below installed capacity. This has left the personnel of the Customs with no other option than to do 100 percent physical examination of cargoes. “This comes with huge difficulties and impedes quality and efficient service delivery, which the Ease of Doing Business executive order is trying to address,” he said. In order to address the problem of faulty scanners, Afolabi urged the Federal Government to consider the option of concessioning as the current economic reality in the country had made it impracticable for the government alone to shoulder the responsibility of infrastructure provision in critical sectors of the economy. The National President of the National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA) as well as Chief Executive Officer of Eyis Resources Limited, Mr. Lucky Eyis Amiwero, said that Nigerian ports are among some of the worst in the world because they do not have the facilities and equipment that are obtainable in modern ports. According to him, Nigerian ports do not have functional scanners, adding that scanners are security equipment that is essential to making sure that dangerous goods and contraband were not allowed into the country. According to the fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Shipping, Institute of Transport Administration (IOTA), “Once you do not have scanners at the ports, your country is at risk. Scanners are security and facilitating tools; and if you do not have scanners, your country is exposed to influx of dangerous weapons and contraband.” He argued that the absence of scanners at the ports has made examination of containers to take longer hours, adding that the country cannot meet good standards in terms of trade facilitation because of absence of facilities and equipment. He posited that the absence of scanners at Nigerian ports has made inspection and examination of goods to be “laborious, time consuming and cumbersome.” Lucky Amiwero, said that Nigerian ports are not business friendly, leading to ports in neighbouring countries to takeover activities that are supposed to be done by Nigerian ports. He added that this has led to loss of revenue by the Federal Government of Nigeria. “A port without scanners is the worst port in the world because scanners help to ease inspection and examination of goods. What we do in Nigeria is physical examination and inspection of goods and this wastes time and leads to unnecessary demurrage and incurring of other charges by port users. This ultimately leads to higher cost of goods in the country and impacts negatively on trade facilitation.” Amiwero, who is an expert in ports operations, said that he was a member of the Presidential Committee on Customs Reform and Destination Inspection, which in 2006 recommended the use of scanners at the ports as part of the destination inspection scheme. He added that some scanners were supposed to be transferred to the Nigerian Customs Service. He, however, said that the service was not able to put the service into use. He argued that there is no country in the world that does not have scanners at their ports, stating that absence of scanners at Nigerian ports makes the ports the worst in the world. He, however, called on the concerned authorities to install scanners at Nigerian ports to facilitate trade and inspection of goods effective and efficient. Col Hameed Ali (rtd), Comptroller General of Customs, said: “Dangerous imports are exposed to being discovered through 100 per cent physical examination. Concealment are discovered through 100 per cent physical examination. “That is why in some cases, where consignments are released from the ports, maybe the people were too lazy to examine properly, and that same consignment were intercepted by another branch of Customs, either acting on intelligence, or profiling, on transit, they take the same consignment for another round of examination, and they discover that the consignment is carrying prohibited items”, a maritime expert asserted”. He said that a good example was the containers carrying arms and exited the port, “last two years, if one can recall, and they were intercepted on the road, whereas, it was released from the port. They were intercepted on the road by the operatives of the Federal Operation Unit, Zone ‘A’ and taken to Ikeja, the headquarters of the Unit for re-examination.” He added that something that have been released from the port of Apapa, “It was at the level of re-examination at Ikeja, it was discovered that were arms from Turkey. This shows the failure of physical examination. This is because, when human beings get tired, becomes lazy, or the smuggler or importers attempts to compromise, they tell the officers don’t border to check everything is in order. They let the consignment go, not knowing that something is hidden inside, which would have been ordinarily exposed by the use of scanners.  So, 100 per cent thorough physical examination done outside the premises of the port, by another arm of customs, maybe the second layer of checks, discovered the arms. According to him, scanners are sine qua non   in examination. “It is something we cannot do without.  It is in the interest of National economy and security to put them in place.” Responding to the fact that the CG of Customs, shortly after the arms seizure promised that scanners would be provided in the ports and border station, but two years after, nothing had been done. The stakeholder who does not want his name in print said: “I will not want to apportion blame, I will want to believe that efforts are on to achieve that because it is in their own interest. Maybe they have budgetary constraint, maybe they have procurement issues, I also know that they have talked about it, and I believe it is a necessity and hope they will come.” On the part of slowness of the Federal Government in ensuring that scanners are provided, “one will say it is complacency on the part of the government. Their failure or slowness at doing what is right for the sake of the economy or national security; I wouldn’t know what is responsible.” “But the government should be blamed in the first instance, why they went into built-operate-own and transfer arrangement with previous service providers, like Cotecna, Globascan, and other companies that provided scanners that were not durable. That shortly after the expiration of their contract, their scanners packed up. I blame government for contacting people who could not give Nigeria scanners that can endure the test of time.” He said there is nothing wrong in customs handling the scanning operations in the port because it had been contracted in the past and the same service providers sabotaged.” These people are parasiting on Nigeria economy. They even earn more than the customs officials. So, why not save cost and allow our people to operate it,” rather than contracting it again. A stakeholder who does not want his name in print, said: “I will not want to apportion blame,  I will want to believe that efforts are on to achieve that because it is in their own interest. Maybe they have budgetary constraint, maybe they have procurement issues, I also know that they have talked about it, and I believe it is a necessity and hope they will come.” On the part of slowness of the Federal Government in ensuring that scanners are provided, “one will say it is complacency on the part of the government. Their failure or slowness at doing what is right for the sake of the economy or national security; I wouldn’t know what is responsible.” “But the government should be blamed in the first instance, why they went into built-operate-own and transfer arrangement with previous service providers, like Cotecna, Globascan, and other companies that provided scanners that were not durable. That shortly after the expiration of their contract, their scanners packed up. I blame government for contacting people who could not give Nigeria scanners that can endure the test of time.” He said there is nothing wrong in customs handling the scanning operations in the port because it had been contracted in the past and the same service providers sabotaged.” These people are parasiting on Nigeria economy. They even earn more than the customs officials. So, why not save cost and allow our people to operate it,” rather than contracting it again. The Founder of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Dr Boniface Aniebonam, advised the management of Customs to put in place necessary infrastructure for officers and men of the service to discharge their duties diligently. He noted that if the scanners at ports are functional, the cache of arms discovered outside the port would have been detected, instead of being intercepted on the road. He said: “The CG of Customs should rather create an enabling environment for officers and also work in line with mandate set aside for them by the government such as provision of scanning machines in all the Seaports, airports and land borders to aid officers and men of service to perform optimally”. Aniebonam further acknowledged that non-availability of scanners at the ports would also not facilitate trade and also expose the country to dangerous goods. However, there are strong indications that the Federal Government has approved the purchase of new scanners for examination of cargoes in major customs ports, an official said. Bashir Abubakar, a former controller of Apapa Customs Command, said efforts put towards securing the scanners have started yielding results. “I want you to understand one thing, operations in the ports are multidimensional. The issue of security of the nation cannot be toyed with. We are talking to different government functionaries to get us scanners. “Right now, the service is doing it best. I am happy the government has approved the purchase of new scanners to major customs commands,” he said. While reviewing the Command’s performance activities of last year, Abubakar said they generated N404 billion as revenue in 2018, an increase of N53 billion from the 2017 figure. He also said, he introduced a 24-hour dispute resolution team, one spot examination at all unit and agencies, and strategies such as advanced system and monitoring, collaboration between internal and external units of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), and other government agencies. He said the implementation of these strategies had helped to block most revenue leakages and enhance trade facilitation and security. In the area of anti-smuggling, Mr Abubakar said: “In the year under review, the command also seized and condemned 41 of 40ft containers or controlled pharmaceutical drugs including tramadol in excess of the allowable milligrams with Duty Paid Value (DPV) N8.812 billion. “Furthermore, the Command also intercepted and seized one export-bound used helicopter with registration number 5BN valued at N210.6 million, in addition, another import bound Aircraft “Cessna 182A” in CKD with serial no. 3400 valued at N486.9 million was also seized in accordance with the provision of the extant laws and guidelines. “All these times were seized owning to various infractions such as false declaration, concealment and complete disregard to import and export guidelines,” He said the Command recorded high level of compliance on export declaration while 2,500 containers were blocked for non-compliance. Abubakar said his Command recorded 1,26649.67 metric tons of exported good in 2018 valued $239,467,926.23, which was equivalent to N73.157 billion. Giving further assurances, Minister of Finance, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, disclosed in an interview that the newly acquired scanners would be deployed on level of importance to the major seaports and airports across the country. She said: “We have bought some scanners and there are three hi-tech scanners that have been paid for, but we are waiting for delivery and the first deployment will be to the major ports. We will buy more and part of the single window process is that there is going to be vendor finance, which implies that there will be a vendor that will provide scanners in all of the major seaports as well as major airports. They will run it on a Build Own and Transfer (BOT) and they will exit.” She also disclosed that the government is considering mobile scanners at land borders across the country. “On land borders there are mobile scanners being considered, but the deployment is going to be in stages starting from the most critical point where the revenues are expected to be high so we are working on the national single window platform.”