LAGOS – Lagos State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Adedeji Doherty has reacted to the statement credited to the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, blasting him for saying that PDP has not been detained to win elections in the State. Doherty made the remark on Friday at the 8-Day Fidual Prayers of one of the chieftains of the party in Badagry. He maintained that Balogun was definitely not in touch with the reality on ground. The PDP leader said he could recall the very narrow results of the 2019 presidential elections and should be battle-ready for 2023, stressing that the APC had continued to enjoy the spoils of their 20 years of rigged elections in the State. He pointed out that it would all come to an end very soon. “Lagos State is yearning for change and the change must come. We have endured 20 years of degradation whereby the State debt had hit the rooftop of over N2trillion naira and still climbing. Our industries have collapsed, unemployment is astronomical, education is nonexistent, healthcare is not affordable and it is behind in terms of equipment and staffing. “Our roads have turned to death traps with potholes and traffic congestion spread all over the State, abandoned projects litter the whole State, including the Atlantic City.” Doherty said that there were no libraries nor recreational centres for children neither was there modernised stadium or sports centre built over the past 20 years. He said that the APC had always won elections in Lagos when PDP was not ready to contest any election. “Look at the various health epidemics resulting from the dumpsites all over the State. This is indeed a dehumanizing policy, which allows the Lagos Stare Waste Management Agency (LAWMA) dump refuse around residential areas, a disgusting sight. He maintained that a political party which could not sort out traffic congestion along the Apapa axis, the Badagry corridor and the wanton contractual corruption going on in the State. He stressed that as a Lagosian by birth, he knew that the PDP was getting ready for a battle time come 2023. Recounting the achievements of PDP in the State, Doherty said that in 2015, the party had six members in the National Assembly and about eight members in the Lagos State House of Assembly, but said the party lost three seats in the National Assembly, in 2019 while its members in the House of Assembly were intimidated into crossing to the APC. Warning that the election in 2023 would not be business as usual for the APC, he advised Balogun to get ready to present the APCs scorecard, while urging members who left the party to come back to the party that believed in true democracy, rule of law and good governance.