Lagos – The Commissioner for Energy and Mineral resources, Lagos State, Mr. Olalere Odusote, has expressed the desire of the current administration in the state to create enabling environment for oil companies in Lagos in line with its campaign for ease-of-doing-business.
He also said the current administration in Lagos was determined to promote clean energy and improve its use in Lagos.
Odusote disclosed this at the inaugural “Enyo Correspondents Breakfast Session” organised by leading downstream company, Enyo Retail and Supply.
“Over 200 schools in Lagos are currently benefitting from solar energy and the administration is making spirited efforts to bring in more schools into the mix.
“We also plan to pan out the first phase of gas-powered vehicles for public transport in 2020 which was driven by the desire of the current administration to deepen the use of gas by fixing infrastructure in the state.
“This sector is of outmost importance and its improvement should be a collaborative effort between the government, private sector and the end users,” he said.
The forum was part of Enyo’s initiative to up-skill stakeholders to drive innovative solutions needed in the downstream sector to attain its full potential in Nigeria.
The panel of speakers included Chief Executive Officer, ENYO Retail and Supply Limited, Abayomi Awobokun; Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources in Lagos, Olalere Odusote; Chief Executive Officer, Transport Service Limited, Deji Wright and Energy Finance Specialist, Rolake Akinkugbe-Filani.
In his welcome address, Tunde Folawiyo, Chairman, ENYO Retail and Supply Limited said, “This year’s forum was carefully designed to provide insightful and constructive ideas and solutions towards navigating the country’s downstream sector. The oil and gas sector is of ultimate importance to the economic growth of the country and we are excited to be contributing to the growth and development of the sector” Commenting on the initiative, Abayomi Awobokun, Chief Executive Officer, ENYO Retail and Supply Limited said oil and gas sector was of one of the most important sectors in Nigeria with its own peculiarities.
He declared that proper collaborations were extremely important and was part of everyone’s responsibility as stakeholders, to educate citizens with solutions that would drive the sector forward.
“The country’s energy sector requires innovation, technical changes and policy dialogues like this to promote operational and economic efficiencies.
“This event is ENYO’s way of being a part of the conversation towards a positive outlook in the sector, and we hope by educating the voices of our industry, the public becomes educated, too,” he added.
The panel discussion themed: ‘Navigating Nigeria’s Downstream,’ featured players in the sector.