Recently the Association of Asset Custodians of Nigeria (AACN) commemorated its 10th anniversary with a series of activities within the country and abroad. Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), who was graced, provided an opportunity to re-assure the international community and investors about doing business in Nigeria. Mrs. Taiwo Sonola, President of the Association, sat down for a chat with BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI. Excerpts: The Association of Asset Custodians of Nigeria (AACN), of which you are President, held a series of activities to commemorate its 10th anniversary. What would you describe as the highpoint of the commemoration? I’m not sure I can single out any particular activity for special mention. They were all amazing. We kicked off with the 8th Annual Nigerian Investors Day in London which was well attended by investors from world over as well as regulators of the Nigerian financial services industry, led by the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele. It gave us an opportunity to showcase the fundamentals of the Nigerian economy and to solicit investments in the country. It was a grand success, and we believe the next edition will even be bigger. Our intervention and visit to Eko Akete Senior Secondary School, Lagos Island had two dimensions. First was that we formally commissioned and handed over the staffroom which was refurbished by our Association. Secondly, our members mentored the students on financial literacy and how to become successful individuals in the society. Both interventions sit at the heart of our goal of pursuing good causes. The fact that the school authorities and the students appreciated our gesture was very heartwarming. The task of nurturing the future generations towards actualisation of their potentials by equipping them with appropriate knowledge and skills is a basic duty that we as an association take seriously. We will continue on this path. Another activity that took us to the core of our professional calling came on the day we performed the closing gong ceremony at the Nigerian Stock Exchange. As you know, our Association comprises banks offering custody services. Custodianship is all about safe keeping people’s portfolio investments and efficiently delivering on all that happen during the lifecycle of the investments which is an integral part of capital market operations. For us, it was a homecoming of sorts and we were delighted to be welcomed by the investing community and other stakeholders. We are thankful to the NSE and the stockbroking community for the opportunity. The last, but not the least was the industry seminar that we organised. It was essentially meant to share knowledge about our services and bring everyone up to speed on developments in the industry. Based on the high level of attendance and the enthusiasm of participants, I will adjudge the session as another resounding success because it achieved the stated purpose of deepening the discourse on the way forward for the industry. Overall, it was an anniversary worthy of every step we took to make memorable. AACN was established 10 years ago. A decade later, how would describe the journey so far? Kindly highlight some of the key achievements of your association over this period. The journey has been quite interesting and fulfilling. When the founding fathers formed the Association, our influence was very limited. Majority of the capital market operators did not understand the role of a custodian. Today, we have come a long way. Most foreign as well as local investor clients use our services, we also facilitate a significant portion of investment transactions in the market and through our market advocacy initiatives and we have contributed to the development of the Nigerian capital market in general. Looking ahead, we intend to continue to contribute our quota. We have lined up several initiatives we intend to push with regulators, financial market infrastructures and market operators for the benefit of investors and the country as a whole. This will ensure we remain relevant in the scheme of things. We understand there are eight-member banks of AACN out of about 24 banks operating in the country. What steps are you taking to attract other banks to join the Association? You are right; we have eight members. As you know, this Association is for only banks that offer custody services. We can confirm that all custodian banks have formally joined the Association. We are not resting on our oars though as we will be more than pleased to welcome more banks as they join the business of custody. Your 8th Annual Nigerian Investors Day in London was a very successful outing. Can you tell us what you set out to achieve with the organisation of the series? Foreign investors are key to the Nigerian economy. They contribute toward improving liquidity in the capital as well as money markets. In addition, they are a major supplier of foreign exchange which contributes toward the stability of the naira. No doubt with Nigeria being a frontier market, the financial market infrastructures are still developing. We the custodians see ourselves as ambassadors of Nigeria and as having the responsibility to protect the interests of these investors in the market and what appeal to such investors are better regulations and development of market infrastructures that result in better asset protection, automation and straight through processes. Our intention for this year’s conference was to bring the regulators and market operators face to face with the investors to present their scorecards on improvement that have been made in the market since the last conference a year ago as well as the market’s plan for the future. I dare say this was achieved with a high degree of success. Looking at the tagline of this year’s conference, ‘Nigeria: The Economics of the Capital Market,’ can you explain to us in a layman’s language what that means and what factors underscore your choice of the theme? To what extent was this theme projected at the forum? The theme, ‘Economies Of The Capital Market’ sought to highlight the various crucial aspects of the capital market in terms of their current states, topical issues, developments, action plans going forward, among others. The choice of this theme was informed by the increasing appetite that foreign portfolio investors are showing in the Nigerian capital market and the need to listen to them, keep them informed and further boost their confidence. Various presentations, panel discussions and fireside chats at the conference were all centered on the theme. Our very resourceful speakers and panelists did justice to the theme, I must say. What would you regard as the most significant takeout from the conference? The presence of the Central Bank governor at the event was the highpoint. Over the years we had tried to bring the investors face-to-face with the central bank without success, largely due to work exigencies. If I recall correctly, the best situation we had previously achieved was when Dr. Sarah Alade, past acting governor of the CBN attended the conference in 2014. Investors have always looked forward to the governor attending the event and have been disappointed in the past. This year was different and to an extent made up for their absence in previous years. The governor was also able to douse some palpable tensions about his term of office and sustainability of various initiatives of the CBN that have increased investor confidence during his first term of office. Have you also put a mechanism in place to further explore the momentum and ideas generated from the conference? Putting the mechanism in place to building on the developmental issues identified at each conference is a key deliverable to properly close each event. When my colleagues and I return from such events, we organise meetings to review all issues raised and highlighted and allocate them to the Association’s subcommittees to work on either in isolation or with regulators and other market participants. This ensures there is proper follow-through on all the issues or promises made and this is followed to a logical conclusion and we eventually report back to the audience on our achievements at subsequent events. This process is engrained in our workflow as an association and ensures no critical item falls through the cracks. A major objective of the conference was to build foreign investor confidence and provide a platform for foreign investors to network with the Nigerian capital market regulators. Would you say this goal was achieved considering the performance of the Nigerian capital market in recent times? Irrespective of who manages the capital market, to a large extent, performance will be impacted by the happenings in the macroeconomic environment which you will agree with me has not been very favourable in Nigerian recent circumstances. Underlying performance is impacted by energy availability and cost, interest rate levels, security situations as well as stability and availability of foreign exchange which funds supply of raw materials for manufacturing. These are all conditions quoted companies operating in Nigeria are faced with. These components impact on perception of risk of the market. In addition to this however, investors understand that the quality of leadership of the capital market also has an impact on direction of growth and development of any capital market. At this year’s conference, leadership of the Central Bank, SEC, CSCS, FMDQ and well as senior influencers of capital market operators were present and I am sure the quality of conversations they had with the investors would have boosted the confidence of the investors. And despite the local and global macroeconomic uncertainties or the current performance challenges, the medium to long term prospects of the market remain attractive. In what ways is AACN collaborating with other bodies, especially the regulatory agencies, to strengthen and develop the Nigerian capital market and the economy in general? The AACN is very deeply committed to collaboration, not just with regulators, but also with other market participants with the intention to benefit the entire capital market ecosystem. Speaking specifically of the Central Bank, the Association is in conversations to commence ISIN issuance for OMO treasury bills. We believe this will significantly increase Straight Through Processing (STP) rates for treasury bills. We are also collaborating with the CBN in their efforts to better regulate the market. Specifically, we helped fine tune as well as provide periodic reporting to aid the regulator in its supervisory function of banks on investment levels in government securities. With the SEC, we are collaborating on rule drafting and issuance. The most recent being rules guiding nominee companies of market operators. Collaboration with the CSCS is an example of where we do it with other market participants and there are several examples here. I will site two. The first is our collaboration on SWIFT usage by the depository and the second is on a possible change from the current dual account structure to a single depository account structure which is current global best practice. These initiatives will help automation as well as improve STP rates. When we talk about investor and custodial services, the uniformed would think that this is an area reserved for foreigners and the rich. Can you help us demystify this impression as well as explain how ordinary people can participate in this market? To be honest, some segments of the local market already understand the important role a custodian plays. This has been helped to some extent by the regulators who in their wisdom made it compulsory for banks (for non- proprietary assets) and fund managers (for registered funds) to use custodians to hold such assets. Outside of this, we also see some private funds as well as investors using custodians to safeguard their assets despite no regulatory pronouncement on this. This shows the level of sophistication of such investors. To put it simply, the custodian’s function is to separate investment decision making from custody and post trading activities in general. This is how investors (that use the services of custodians) ensure their assets are protected. There is a glaring risk in allowing the investment decision maker to also be the custodian of assets. This can lead to unprofessional practices at the detriment of the investor. It is therefore, important for all investors to use custodians for these investment activities and this is purely for their protection. Today, we see the insurance sector not using custodians for their investments but rather building their own investment operations team which basically do internally at a very high cost what a custodian would do for them more efficiently and at a far cheaper cost. The market needs to understand the benefits we provide in safeguarding investments.