Bayelsa State government has kick- started its Higher Education Students Loan Scheme with N350 million as a revolving interest-free loan programme for indigent students. The state governor, Seriake Dickson, who disclosed this during the official launch of the scheme in Yenagoa, explained that N100 million was added to the initial N250 million already provided by the state government. In statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, Dickson called for the sustainability of the loan scheme, stressing that education was key to fighting under-development, oppression and inequality in the society. The governor, who said that all other investments except education are susceptible to deterioration, called on the beneficiaries to take advantage of the loan facility to build a vibrant informed society. Highlighting his administration’s achievements in the educational sector, he said Bayelsa is ranked as one of the best performing states in national examinations. He also pointed out that due to the premium his administration placed on education, appropriate investments have been made to educational institutions including monthly subventions to the Federal University, Otuoke and Federal Polytechnic, Ekowe. He explained that the state government gives a monthly subvention of N10 million
and N5 million to the Federal University, Otuoke and the Federal Polytechnic Ekowe, respectively. Dickson said, “Our students perform brilliantly in all national examinations and as such our performance average in all exams is getting so well that we are now rated as number one out of five or out of seven. “One of the things that is so critical is how we decided early in our government to use education as a tool for development, as a tool for social stability, fighting under- development and inequality and so education is so important that there is nothing we can hold back. “As I always say, every other investment including the roads we built, the bridges we construct, even the hospitals we built, every other investment will deteriorate with time. “It is only investments in the human capacity, investment in you all that does not deteriorate. Rather the dividends expands exponentially from generation to generation, so we are on the right track.” He also used the opportunity of the launch to distribute 3,550,000 books to students of various institutions in the state. In his speech, chairman on the occasion and Pro-Chancellor of the Bayelsa Medical University, Prof Nimi Briggs, paid glowing tributes to Governor Dickson-led administration especially in the area of education development.