Emmanuel Umohinyang, political analyst and activist is a an ardent supporter of the Muhammadu Buhari administration. In this interview, he says President Buhari has not performed badly on the issue of human rights. He also spoke on the issues surrounding the continuous detention of Omoyele Sowore, TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: are your perspectives on the hu­man rights situation in the country? Remember, we have a convert­ed democrat as the President of the Federal Republic. During his 1983/84 reign, it was brutish. Some of us were victims, and the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi was a back to back visitor to various prisons across the country. Pres­ident Buhari’s second coming is what I will describe as a far cry from the 83/84 era. He has shown that over the years, he has dropped the toga of a military general and imbibed the culture of democracy. If you listened to him in 1993, when he granted an interview to The News mag­azine, he paid glowing tributes to democracy. Over the years, President Buhari has showed that he has transformed from a military dictator to a democrat. If we are to score him in terms of human rights, we can give him fair. You can give him 50 percent, that’s a pass-mark At least, he has been able to oper­ate within the rules of the land, though we have had a few issues, here and there. Some of them are been resolved through the court process. The years where a man is yanked off from his house to the prison is long over. It is our prayer that such an era will not return again. Is it not true that the President does not obey Court Orders? Well, some of these things are speculative and I am not sure that the Buhari that travelled to Cha­tham House before 2015 election, who openly declared that he is now a converted democrat will want to play outside the rules of the game. However, we may have pockets of issues, which is not clear because you and I were not there to know whether a court or­der exists. Just like the issue of El-Zakzaky where it was reported that some courts had granted him bail but was not released. While we were sticking towards that, it was brought to our attention by the AGF that he has series of cas­es in court. The last one was the one in Kaduna where bail has not yet been granted and I think that it is an elementary principle in law that when you have multiple charges, there is no way you can be released since you still have a pending case where bail has not been granted. On that, I think government was correct that court never granted him bail, he was only given permission to travel for medical treatment and you saw the drama that played out in India. The man who was wheeled into the aircraft sudden­ly started bouncing in a bouncing castle in India. He even had audi­ence with people. Some of these “I am sick” may not necessarily be true. By and large, I don’t think this government; under President Muhammadu Buhari will deliberately look the other way when the courts have decid­ed. As soon as you do that, anar­chy is the way to go. You cannot cage the people. Nigerians will rise against any autocratic gov­ernment. President Buhari will not want to go that way. He has given his word, and I think he is willing to stand by it. How would you assess the DSS’ handling of the Sowore Issue? The most disturbing aspect of the Sowore issue is not whether he has committed a crime or not. It is for the courts to decide. When this started, we had reason to criticise his remark. Sowore is my friend. If you want to pro­test against government policies, you have the right within the law to do so, but at the same time, I am not aware of any civil soci­ety group that supports violent means. The constitution has laid out how a government can be removed. If you want to do that, you have to go through the National Assembly or wait for another cycle of elections to vote whoever is there out with your thumb. The beauty is that even Sowore himself was one of the contestants in the last election. Having lost an election does not deprive him the right to contest, if he so wish. If it is based on the election he lost, the rules are very clear that when you lose the tribunals are there to look at your case and give judgement on it. That does not still deprive Sowore that right given him by the constitution to protest, but how you go about it is very im­portant. When you start going about making threatening and inflammatory statements about your intention to remove the gov­ernment, it is unacceptable. I am not sure any country in the world will take it lightly. It is within the government’s right to arrest him and charge him to court if he has offended the principles of the law. But the recent event that happened has left some of us bewildered, and the most ridic­ulous aspect are the statements coming from the DSS signed by one Peter Afunnaya. He does not appear to me like somebody who has any knowledge about the media. My six year old son can issue the statements he is­sued to media. Even if it was given to him to sign, by virtue of the Phd he claims to have, he should have had the courtesy to go over it and make corrections where necessary. How do you tell Nigerians that Sowore can be knocked down by a vehicle if he was released? It’s the most an­noying thing I have ever heard. Worse still, the DSS said the sureties should come to court for verification. The court has giv­en bail. Despite how, stringent those conditions are, to some of us, the man has met these con­ditions. In the thinking of the court, they are satisfied with the sureties, and you have been di­rected to release Sowore. For you to say you want to re-examine the sureties, you are indirectly turning yourself to an appel­late court, which is ridiculous. I don’t know the kind of train­ing the DSS gives them. I don’t think it will occur in a Banana Republic. DSS have the right to take him into custody after his release if they have new facts, which you and I may not know. The law allows it, but going to the sacred temple of justice to dese­crate it in the name of arresting Sowore is the worst thing I have ever seen in my entire life. The same DSS which denied the act went back to the court to apolo­gise. What were they apologis­ing for? A decent agency would have issued a public apology to Nigerians and all these things would have died down. That was an unprofessional conduct on the part of the DSS. While we are strong supporters of Mr. President, and we have no apol­ogy for supporting him, we must not allow any agency of govern­ment to dent the good image of this government. Are you in support of the withdrawal of Sowore’s case file from the DSS by the Federal Government? I think that is long overdue, considering the abysmal perfor­mance of the DSS. You cannot say that this Agency has done very well. You may have a good case, but if you don’t adopt a good principle, you lose it. It’s a settled issue in law. I am not ex­pecting the Attorney-General to just withdraw the case, he should take a second look at the proof ev­idence. If he finds out that there is nothing to prosecute Sowore, he should enter a nolle prosecue and get the young man out of the place. The AGF is right by retrieving the case file from the DSS. He should do a complete review of the matter.