 Mbaoma, Enyimba’s New Kid On The Bloc  Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Gone were the days when Ni­geria hopeful Enyimba were one of the most-feared teams on the continent to the same extent that the People’s Elephants were successively crowned continen­tal champions in 2003 and 2004. The Aba-based side have strug­gled ever since much more so in the on-going continental cup cam­paign since they flattered to de­ceive in the Total Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) Cham­pions League after posting a 5-1 aggregate win over Rahimo FC of Burkina Faso, Enyimba lost 1-0 on aggregate to Al Hilal of Sudan to drop off into the play-off for the Total CAF Confederation Cup. Though, they did spank South Africa’s second division side TS Galaxy 4-1 on aggregate to secure their berth in the Confederation Cup mini-league group stage, Eny­imba have recorded a loss and a win in two matches following that 2-0 away defeat to Hassania Aga­dir on MatchDay 1 and that hard-fought 1-0 home win against San Pedro on MatchDay 2. As the mini-league reaches half­way mark on MatchDay 3, three-point Enyimba are second on the log in Group D behind Hassania Agadir of Morocco, who have six points, while Algerian debutants Paradou and San Pedro of Cote d’Ivoire are both in the rear with one point each. However, Enyimba striker Vic­tor Mbaoma reckons his side must avoid defeat against the ‘Blue and Yellow’ on Sunday (today) in Bli­da. “Our expectation against Para­dou is to win because if we need to qualify from this group for the quarter finals, we need to win our matches henceforth,” the Enyim­ba Number 25 said in an interview with CAFOnline.com “We have lost one and won one of the previous two matches; this is our third match in the group stage and we can’t afford to lose again. We just have to win so that it can enhance our chances of qualifying from this difficult group.” The 23-year-old forward, re­cruited from Nigerian top flight side Remo Stars at the start of the season, is regarded as one of his side’s outstanding players this term. “We have a lot of quality play­ers and I’m really happy because being here has really helped me personally; it has helped me to grow as a person and as a player.” But this is not Mbaoma’s debut on the continent after his four goals for Akwa United in the Uyo-based side’s ill-fated campaign in the 2018 Total CAF Confederation Cup, where they exited in the pen­ultimate round before the group stage. “The experience has been very good,” surmise Victor whose sur­name, Mbaoma, means ‘good man’ in his native Abia State in Eastern Nigeria. “I’m grateful to be able to play at the continental level again; and it has really helped my game and exposed me as a player. Biggest moment, looking up to Cristiano Ronaldo “My best moment so far in this Total CAF Confederation Cup was scoring against TS Galaxy at home in Aba as well as when we qualified for the group stage. “In the Nigerian league, it was when I scored twice against Ad­amawa United because it boosted my confidence to go for the top scorer of the season; and this has really strengthened me,” he said. Yet for Mbaoma, it’s not a ques­tion of how good he is currently but how good he wants to be as he models his fledging career after Portuguese great, Cristiano Ron­aldo. “My footballing hero has always been Cristiano Ronaldo simply be­cause he loves to win and score goals,” Mbaoma said with an un­mistakable clarity. “I always like to watch him and you can see that he’s not al­ways happy when he doesn’t score goals. I try to emulate such a great player because I love to score goals too.”