LAGOS – Gernot Rohr, Super Eagles Manager, is not ready to dump the team for now and so also the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) wants the German to continue his job. This is because the officials of the football house are pleased with the performance of the coach, though they expressed their misgivings over the coach’s penchant for revealing to the media salaries and allowances owed him. Somebody in the know of the working relationship between the NFF and Rohr told our correspondent on Friday that the NFF “is ready to renew the contract of the German.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Forget about what you read in the media, the NFF wants him (Rohr) to stay and also he wants to stay with the Super Eagles,” the source said on Friday. “The only reason why the NFF is angry with him is granting interviews revealing that he is being owed. That is what the NFF is angry about. If not that there is no any issue.” According to the source, who is an inner working member of the football house, the NFF still owed players last Africa Cup of Nations allowances, noting that the players understood the situation. “The players are still being owed, but because they understand what is happening they (players) are not ready to raise any dust,” he added. NFF’s financial situation, it was learnt, was worsened by the belief that the football house is corruption riddled. “The EFCC arrest and sealing of houses, court cases did not do the NFF any good. Even the former Sports Minister wrote sponsors of the NFF to stop dealing with them; state governors were also asked not to deal with the NFF. All these affected their fortune. This is one of the reasons why the coach is being owed. “The new Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, got it right when he said that the perception is that NFF is corrupt. That is the truth.” Meanwhile, there are indications that the NFF is considering giving the coach some stringent conditions in its bid to renew the coach’s contract. According to the new contract terms, Rohr “must” live in the country (Lagos or Abuja). He will also be allowed to travel on vacation only three times in a year. He will not get an improved pay from his $55,000 per month deal. The NFF will also ensure, unlike in the past three years where he earned wages tax free, that his income will be levied. All his selections must be approved by the NFF Technical Committee. But Adegboye Onigbinde, the former coach of the Super Eagles, says there was nothing special or new in the new contract terms on the premise that it was the norm everywhere. Onigbinde said that it was the duty of the NFF Technical Department and the NFF Technical Committee to fully develop the game in the country, even as he admitted that both bodies had failed. “There is nothing new in the contract; the coach must live where he is coaching. It is also the duty of the NFF Technical Department and the NFF Technical Committee to develop the game, so seeing the list of players is not out of place. “It is just that the two bodies have failed to effectively do their duties by developing the game in Nigeria. But apart from that, nothing entirely is new in the new contract,” he said.