Paschal Njoku; Samuel Ogidan Abuja – The body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to set up a judicial commission of enquiry to launch a probe into the invasion of the Federal High Court, Abuja, by operatives of Department of State Services (DSS) in a bid to re-arrest the convener of #RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore. The troubling aspect of the incident, according to the Body of SANs, was “the audacity with which some of the actors entered the courtroom vi et armis. They thus exposed our hallmark of indiscipline to the whole world in a matter of seconds”.
Chief T. J. Onomigho Okpoko (SAN) stated this on Thursday in a paper he presented on behalf of Body of SANs at the valedictory court session in honour of Justice Kumai Bayang Akaahs, who retired as Justice of the Supreme Court on December 12, 2019.
To forestall future occurrence of the incident at the Federal High Court, the Body of SANs posited that the setting up of a commission of enquiry is essential.
“The way out is an independent commission of enquiry under the law. This can be achieved. The Body of Senior Advocates hereby demands that Mr. President considers without delay, the setting up of a judicial commission enquiry to hear publicly and determine the perpetrators of the acts, their sponsors and their objectives”, Okpoko said.
“Unless, this is done, Nigerians are unlikely to be convinced by any other explanations that the act was not the work of the DSS”, he stated.
The Body of SANs opined that “it is the result of any such judicial inquiry that will lead to the re-establishment of discipline in the society. The DSS and its officers are not above the laws of the land and the constitution.
“In Nigerian law and in the Common Law, the superior orders is no defence to a criminal conduct. It has never been and this administration must not allow it to be” Okpoko warned.
“My lord, let me remind you that what took place in Nigeria was seen not only by Nigerians but by people all over the world and we condemn that act in its entirety.
“In spite of all disruptions, His Lordship and his learned brothers continued in the performance of their duties. A country that does not respect its judiciary cannot qualify as a democratic country.
“The constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria recognised the judiciary as the third arm of government in the country to which the judicial powers of the nation is vested.”
The Body of SANs expressed dismay that “events of the past three years or so have shown that while Nigeria professes to be governed by the laws of the land, some of its actions and her officers show otherwise.
“No one suggests that judges are above the law or that they ought not to be arrested when there is justifiable cause for it.
“But in doing so, one ought to recognise the fact that the judiciary is an arm of government and its judicial officers are persons deserving of decency and respect in their treatment.”
The body recollected the incidences of arrest of judges in their official residence at night time, entry into the residence or offices of judges, etc.
“These acts have come and gone and no state officer was questioned or queried for the manner they purported to have carried out their state duty of arresting judges in the manner they did.
“The story today is totally different. The society of today is one where indiscipline has taken firm root such that judgments and orders of court are now treated with disdain.
“The measure of value in our country has changed. Name, honour and good reputation no longer counts. As such what counts nowadays is wealth and political power no matter how procured in the society of today.
“The honour and dignity of judicial officers is relegated to the background”, the Body of SANs observed. Sowore: Senate Probes Alleged Courtroom Invasion By DSS
Meanwhile, the upper chamber of the National Assembly on Thursday mandated its Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters to investigate the alleged invasion of the Federal High Court, Abuja, by men of the Department of State Services (DSS) on December 6, while the court was sitting.
The directive of the Senate followed a point of order 43 raised by Michael Opeyemi (Ekiti Central), the chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters.
The lawmaker had reminded the Senate that even though they didn’t have evidence concerning the alleged invasion of the court by officials of the DSS, the Senate should not be quiet about the issue involving the security agents and the publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, since Nigerians have been discussing it.
According to Opeyemi, the courtroom was supposed to be a sanctuary, adding that even though they could not jump into conclusion about what happened, they won’t pretend that Nigerians were not concerned about it.
“Even though we don’t have evidence yet about the alleged invasion of the court, Nigerians, including the judiciary which we represent, will want to know our position,” he said.
Opeyemi pleaded with the Senate to mandate its committee on National Security and Intelligence to interface with the people allegedly involved and unravel the true story.
He said: “The leadership and members of the judiciary are particularly concerned about this development because they believe that the courtroom is meant to be a sanctuary.
“For us as a Senate, we cannot analyse issues based on conclusions without facts that we consider technical.
“Much as we cannot jump into conclusion, also is the fact that we cannot pretend not to know that Nigerians are concerned about this development.
“Mr. President, the reason I came under 43 is so that I will not generate any controversy or even make the Senate debate over an issue like I said earlier, we still need to have facts and evidence.
“As elected representatives of the people in whom Nigerians, including the judiciary, must find their voices, I move that we mandate our committee on National Security and Intelligence to interface with security agencies to investigate what happened and report back to the Senate.”
The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, in his ruling on Opeyemi’s point of order, mandated the Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters instead to investigate the alleged invasion of the Federal High Court by DSS operatives.
The committee, which is chaired by Opeyemi Bamidele, is expected to turn in its report by Thursday next week.