Jos – Plateau state governor, Simon Bako Lalong has  upgraded   two traditional rulers to second class status. Besides, the government announced that more traditional rulers would soon be installed in the state. He   disclosed these during the statewide installation and coronation of new traditional rulers in Lamingo, Jos North local government area where he presented a second class staff of office to Emmanuel Ajik as the Adagwom Izere Jos. Governor Lalong said at the ceremony that traditional Institution remains a veritable partner in the development of the state, particularly in peace and security. He explained that his the administration decided to follow the wishes and yearnings of the people of Izere whose chiefdom was truncated by the last administration of Governor Jonah Jang. He implored the Adagwom Izere to rule with the fear of God, justice and compassion as the people can only follow him if they know that he has their interest at heart. He said: “As the custodian of the culture and tradition of the Izere people, I expect you to uphold the highest virtues of decency, morality as well as be a unifying factor for all the people residing in your domain. From this moment, you cease to be just the father of Izere people or of one particular clan, tribe, denomination or religion. You are the father of all that reside in your domain irrespective of where they come from”. The Adagwom Izere Emmanuel Ajik, the paramount ruler of Izere kingdom in his remarks at the event, described Governor Lalong as an emancipator who has kept his campaign promise by restoring their chiefdom, dignity, and sense of belonging. He promised to continue to support the government and mobilize his subjects to work with the administration in promoting peace and development. At Ibaas in Barkin Ladi local government area,  the Governor installed Da Luka Pagyang Pam as the Gwom Ibaas, a third class chief,where he advised him to see his role as that of a unifier rather than a sectional champion. Lalong said his administration believes that the issue of chiefdoms, districts, villages, and development areas is a constitutional right for citizens. He said: “As a lawyer, I am of the view that no one should stop any group for agitating for a Chiefdom, district, village or development area. If you don’t want, that is your right, but don’t stop anybody who wants from demanding it. That is how the demands for local governments and states began and today we are witnesses to how some people have more local government areas than others. For Lalong,  people should not entertain any fear of losing their power and influence over others because Plateau belongs to everyone. “Under my watch, nobody will be treated as a second class citizen or superior to another. We are created equal by God and must learn to live together in peace and unity. Let the majority have their way and the minority their say. I will not tolerate nor support anyone trying to dominate another”. He, however, warned that his administration will not hesitate to remove any traditional ruler who is found wanting. “ Let me warn that any traditional ruler who is found to be promoting ethnoreligious hatred, injustice, disharmony or shielding criminals will not only be dethroned, but will be made to face the laws of the land,” he said. The Long Goemai of Shendam Miskom Martin Shalders III, who spoke for the Plateau state council of traditional rulers  at the two events said they  endorsed the action of the government and all the appointments.