UK banks and insurers will be forced to reveal how exposed they are to the climate crisis and how they would respond to the effects of a temperature rise of up to 4C under the Bank of England’s first climate stress tests. The Bank has put forward proposals to test the performance and health of the UK financial system for a range of climate-linked financial risks, including the failure of governments and consumers to take action. The tests are expected to uncover the extent of the financial sector’s exposure to climate risks, and gauge company responses that could cause spillover effects for the global economy. However, the Bank will not identify individual businesses through the tests and will only release aggregate results for the banking and insurance sectors. Threadneedle Street has, however, not ruled out releasing individual results in the future and plans to use the initial reports to inform how it supervises each company. The tests, to be released for the first time in 2021, will cover the same UK banks subject to financial stress testing, including HSBC, Barclays, Standard Chartered, Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander UK, Lloyds and Nationwide. By 2021, CYBG – rebranded as Virgin Money – will also be included. About 39 insurers are expected be tested on their climate resilience. The testing will cover three scenarios, including “early policy action”, where the transition to a carbon-neutral economy is clear and decisive, resulting in the global temperature rise staying below 2C, in line with the 2015 Paris climate agreement. Global climate targets will also be met in a second “late policy action scenario”, but the transition is delayed by 10 years, leading to more drastic and immediate action that could cause an economic shock. In the final scenario, governments fail to introduce policies to address the climate emergency, and companies and consumers do not change their behaviour. Global temperatures increase “substantially” – by about 4C – by 2080, resulting in rising sea levels and more frequent, extreme weather events such as flash floods. Sign up to the daily Business Today email or follow Guardian Business on Twitter at @BusinessDesk
The proposals will go out for consultation until March and the Bank is requesting feedback from financial companies, climate scientists, economists and other industry experts. The Bank’s governor, Mark Carney, said the tests were a “pioneering exercise, which builds on the considerable progress in addressing climate-related risks that has already been made by firms, central banks and regulators. Climate change will affect the value of virtually every financial asset.” He added that the tests would “help ensure the core of our financial system is resilient to those changes”. Carney is taking on the role of UN special envoy for climate action and finance after he steps down from the Bank next month. His main focus will be on mobilising private finance to invest in schemes that will help achieve the Paris goal of limiting global temperature rises to 1.5C.