ADO-EKITI – The restriction order placed on Governor Kayode Fayemi and his wife by the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has been lifted. The students’ body during the heat of the crisis which resulted in the death two students banned the governor and his wife from all students’ activities in campuses. In a communiqué by NANS’ Senate President, Gambo Abubakar Mohammed and Clerk, Kabiru Mohammed, after its Senate meeting in Ado Ekiti on Monday, said neither the state governor, nor the wife knew anything about the death of the students. The SUG president, Federal University, Lokoja , Kogi State, moved a motion for the lifting of the order, seconded by SUG president of Niger State College of Education, Zakari Mohammed, and was affirmed by other Senators at the plenary. Exonerating Fayemi and wife further, NANS said: “Ekiti State government has taken the responsibilities of paying for hospital bills of all injured students and for the burial arrangement of the deceased. “The government also visited the deceased families and compensated them while processing the employment opportunity two members of the bereaved families. “We realised that it is time to move on and allow the sleeping dog lies in the interest of peace and love among all those that were involved.” The students appealed to Fayemi to fulfill his promises to those who suffered any form of calamity during the incident. The Senators also lamented the death of a students’ leader, Com. Yemi Adeniran, who died in a ghastly motor accident, saying the deceased did well as a member of the SUG during his lifetime. Two FUOYE students, Joseph Okonofua and Kehinde Dada, were shot dead on September 10, 2019 during a protest that coincided with the visit of Mrs Fayemi to Oye Ekiti, which led to confrontation between the first lady’s security details and students due to unruly and violent nature of the latter. The killings, had forced the NANS to make a public statement directing students to henceforth treat Fayemi and wife as persona non grata in all Nigerian tertiary institutions.