Bolu-Olu Esho; Chukwujekwu Ilozue Akure / Awka – Four persons lost their lives in a ghastly motor accident involving two 18-seater buses on Ore-Benin Expressway by Show Boy filling station, Ore in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. The buses involved in the accident were a white Toyota HIACE with registration number ACA 606 XT, belonging to GUO Transport and a white Ugama with registration number AKL 846 YY belonging to Peace Mass Transit.
According to the sector commander of the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC), Rotimi Adeleye, the accident could have been as a result of dangerous overtaking and loss of control.
No fewer than 30 persons were involved in the accident comprising of 12 female adults, 16 male adults and two female children.
Two female and two male lost their lives in the accident, while 26 of them who sustained varying degrees of injuries were taken to Ore General Hospital for medical attention.
The casualties could not be identified, but their remains have been deposited at Opeyemi Hospital, Ore.
However, the vehicles involved in the accident were towed away by the police.\ Three Feared Dead As Cultists Invade Awka
In another development, Awka, the Anambra State capital, was thrown into pandemonium on Wednesday evening when gunmen suspected to be cultists invaded the town, killing three on the spot.
The leader of the local vigilantes, simply identified as Mr. Christopher Nzekwu, aka Ezeoke, was one of the three killed.
Eyewitnesses said pandemonium broke out between 7pm and 8pm when the cultists invaded Umubele village and killed Mr. Nzekwu.
The cultists then moved to Umukwa, near Eke Awka market, and unleashed terror on the community, causing residents to flee.
Two other people were killed in the process near Eke Awka market. The police, however, could only confirm one death.
Reacting to the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer in Anambra State, Haruna Mohammed, a Superintendent of Police, said: “The Commissioner of Police (Mr. John Abang) has summoned an emergency meeting of all tactical commanders in the state command and given them a marching order to arrest perpetrators of this dastardly act.
“The CP equally directed the DC State CID to take over the case and conduct discreet investigations to ascertain circumstances surrounding the incident and bring perpetrators to justice”.
Asked how many people were killed, Haruna said one.
Cult activities in Awka and environs took a break after alleged leaders of cults were arrested but later released.
Before then, tens of alleged cultists were arrested and paraded weekly.