LOKOJA – Kogi State Community and Social Development Agency (KGCSDA) has charged contractors handling its projects to ensure that their works meet specification and to deliver on time to avoid being blacklisted. This is as it disclosed that the World Bank has expended over five hundred million naira in 2019 on rural development projects across the state. Mallam Momoh Dauda, General Manager of the agency, represented by Samuel Okpanachi, the team leader, gave the warning yesterday at Girinya in KogiKotonkarfe LGA while on routine inspections of their projects in the Local Government Area. He stated that the agency with funding from the World Bank and community contribution had carried out a number of community-enhancing projects across the state. The projects, according to him, range from water projects, rural electrification and health care facilities that have contributed to the improvement of lives of the rural dwellers. Okpanachi noted that the World Bank have a set standard for their projects and urged contractors and community leaders to strictly adhere as circumventing the standard will not be tolerated. He warned the contractor handling Clinic project at Tuturu in GirinyaEast of the LGA to move back to site to correct anomalies to avoid being sanctioned even as the community leaders handling Girinya Town hall building have promised to complete the project on schedule. Okpanachi who was excited by the commu
nity leaders of Osuku in their handling of a clinic project in their community, approved the payment of the final tranche of the contract sum. Speaking, the chairman of Osuku Community Project Management Committee (OCPMC)SeiduDauda said the Community and its environs are grateful to the President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Yahaya Bello, the KSCSDA and the World Bank for reducing maternal deaths in the community through the ongoing upgrading of primary healthcare centre PHC to a full-fledged Clinic. He added that deaths of pregnant mothers is prevalent in the area owing to non-existent health care facilities , saying with the world Bank intervention, the people will heave a sigh of relief. He assured the Agency of their commitment to the completion of the project, to maintain and to protect it from being vandalised. At the Chikara community with a population of not less than 2,000 inhabitants who have to travel kilometers to access stream waters, the villagers were grateful to the Agency for the release of first tranche cheque of N1, 370,000 for the construction of a borehole for the community. Presenting the cheque on behalf of the agency , Mr, Gbenga Bello said it was in fulfillment of finance agreement between the community and the agency. He advised them to utilise the money properly in order not to incur the wrath of the Agency. Responding, the secretary of the community project management committee, Iyah Paul promised to ensure that the money is spent wisely