As Christians in Nigeria join their counterparts in Christendom worldwide today in festive activities commemorating the miraculous birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, it should not be an occasion for dining and wining only. Rather, the day should be reserved for sober reflection, spiritual rejuvenation and commitment to observing his teachings. The divine birth of the Saviour and Prince of Peace in the lowly manger in Bethlehem over two thousand years ago has been described variously as the most precious gift to mankind. Jesus, the undisputable royal child of Virgin Mary, was born of David’s line in a manger. It is significant that despite his humble upbringing, news about his unusual birth as King and Saviour of mankind, resonated in many places while throughout his short but memorable 33 years existence, he was visibly caring and considerate in his dealings. While helping to alleviate the plight of the poor, He practised what He preached. He was a visionary leader that rendered selfless service with unwavering dedication without expecting gratification from anybody unlike those in public offices these days in Nigeria. For there to be genuine and sustainable peace among ethnic nationalities in Nigeria, and to enthrone socio-economic development in the country, the citizenry should emulate the exemplary nature of Jesus Christ. Irrespective of religious, ethnic, political or cultural affiliations, people should eschew religious bigotry, bitterness and divisive tendencies all of which threaten the survival of the country since the past 20 years following return of democracy. All Nigerians need to imbibe a culture of mutual understanding, peaceful co-existence and religious tolerance as veritable template for peace and progress of the country. Crisis arising from injustice and poor governance will foreclose a conducive environment for government at various tiers, just as it will discourage local and foreign investors from investing in the country. In spite of His exalted position and immeasurable miraculous powers, Jesus humbled himself by voluntarily washing the feet of his disciples. His motivational teachings, exemplary lifestyle and outstanding miracles that greatly touched many lives positively, are part of the reasons he has continued to endear himself to Christians. However, rather than celebrate Jesus once annually, Christians must do so religiously, every day. They should imbibe His invaluable virtues of good leadership, exemplary conduct and unalloyed love for mankind. Like Jesus, Christians in Nigeria should be helpful, caring and accommodating. They must radiate love and refrain from unGodly practices that could make them commit sin against fellow citizens and country. They should be good ambassadors of Christ wherever they find themselves and be ready to account for their deeds or misdeeds. It is unfortunate that despite increasing number of religious houses across the country, level of religious intolerance is steadily increasing. Many of those pretending to be Godly are profoundly unGodly. This is why, in spite of the huge number of places of worship, criminality is on the increase. Nigeria is going through difficult times. The country has never been so divided due to religious intolerance, lopsided appointments, unfair distribution of national resources, theft of nation’s wealth, flagrant flouting of court orders, corruption, rising unemployment, abject poverty in the midst of plenty and ethnicity. This is the time patriotic religious leaders should constructively challenge those in authority to fulfill their campaign promises in order to save the country from imminent collapse. Like Jesus, political leaders and others in positions of authority should see themselves as servants of the people who elected them into offices and must desist from behaving as if the country is still under military rule. Both leaders and the led should, in the spirit of Christmas, abstain from actions capable of causing disaffection among ethnic nationalities and engage in activities geared towards promoting stability of the country. All organs of government should discharge their duties responsibly in accordance with legal and constitutional provisions that they swore to defend. The lessons of Christmas as demonstrated by Jesus through love, humility, sharing, honesty, selfless service, sacrifice, religious tolerance and peaceful co-existence, should be the watchword of every citizen. All religions should preach peace and not war. Killings, bloodbaths, kidnappings and cultism are not in-line with the preaching of Jesus. No religion is worth the precious blood of worshippers. Nigerian youths should not allow wicked politicians to use them to perpetrate dastardly acts that could cause untimely death of innocent citizens. We wish Christians a fruitful celebration of the life and times of Jesus Christ; and we enjoin all Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of forgiveness and Godliness epitomised by Christ in their relationships with fellow citizens. This is the way to promote peaceful co-existence and seek the face of God, which is one of the cardinal reasons Christmas is celebrated today throughout the world.