ABUJA – More facts emerged at the weekend on how Governor Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak of Kwara State and the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Yakubu Salisu Danladi, escaped being implicated in the ongoing probe into the N200 million allegedly shared among some aides of the governor by the former chairman of the Kwara Inland Revenue Service (KWIRS), Prof. Murtala Awodun. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had invited the Chief of Staff to Governor Abdulrazak, Alhaji Aminu Logun, because Awodun had claimed that he gave him some money to help influence the extension of his tenure as KWIRS chairman. This was shortly after Logun was named the chairman of the Transition Committee 2019 and was believed to have some influence on the then governor-elect. Logun has since refuted the allegation. Although Governor Abdulrazak was said to be in the dark about the deal, Sunday INDEPENDENT gathered that Awodun actually approached Danladi for assistance because of his closeness to the governor. But, Danladi was said to have rejected the offer because that would have prevented him from becoming the Assembly Speaker. A source in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state said those linking AbdulRazaq to the alleged corruption were “either mischievous or were not thinking through their utterances.” “If Awodun had indeed given money to AbdulRazaq for election as is being alleged, why would the same governor not retain him as KWIRS chairman as a payback? And how can anyone even think that such a thing can ever happen in a parastatal where Senator Bukola Saraki had so many grips? “What happened was that Awodun was trying to remain there and he met with anybody who he felt could help him,” he said. The source said Awodun originally wanted to be the vice chancellor of the Kwara State University (KWASU), a position for which he had been pencilled down by former Governor Ahmed Abdulfatai. He was said to have been edged out by some rules and forces. “But, the plan failed as a result of internal power struggle within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) then. That was not helped by the election outcome in March. So, the man felt he should just try to retain his seat in order to protect himself and other powerful interests from probe,” he added. Unlike in the case of the N5 billion KWIRS allegedly shared among some former members of the House of Assembly in which the EFCC had confirmed invitations to some persons, the anti-graft agency did not confirm or deny the invitation of the Chief of Staff and others said to have been questioned in relation to the Awodun’s tenure extension bid. However, all the sources said the tenure of Awodun saw daring misuse of public funds to oil the defeated political machine. Another source said Logun was not alone in the messy situation as some other top politicians and influence-peddlers were also implicated by Awodun’s confession. “We have taken statements from Logun, just like some other persons too. This has nothing to do with election. It was about how the former KWIRS chairman was trying to influence his reappointment with public funds,” the source said. “Clearly, none of the influence-peddlers was able to influence the governor. The man was eased out of the job and the rest is history. We are still investigating some of the discoveries in this regard,” he said. While admitting to have been invited by EFCC, Logun, however, claimed that the commission only wanted him to shed light on matters pertaining to an ongoing investigation. “First and foremost, I will like to state that I truly visited the Ilorin Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) as part of an ongoing investigation into the activities of some past officials, including the former chairman of the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service (KWIRS). “Save for public officials with immunity under our law, every public official has an obligation to the state to assist in the investigation of any crime. I am no exception, hence my first and only appearance on November 26, 2019 to answer the EFCC summon to volunteer information as I know it. “However, my visit to the EFCC has been given several misleading interpretations, especially on the social media where some persons are unfairly using that to smear my hard-earned image. I understand this is one of the burdens of being in public office. “I state unequivocally that at no time did Prof Awodun give me any money for the claimed purpose or for any other purpose whatsoever. Similarly, I was not involved in any funneling or distribution of money from KWIRS and/or any other source for any political campaign or political party. All the stories and theories in the media concerning those allegations are baseless and totally untrue. “I have instructed my lawyers to review the false publications with a view to taking legal actions as may be appropriate. “I remain humbled by and grateful to the Executive Governor of Kwara State, Mallam Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, for the trust reposed in me as the chairman, Kwara State Transition Committee 2019, which was further concretised by my appointment as the Chief of Staff to the executive governor. “I remain very proud of the giant steps and achievements of the executive governor since he assumed the reins in Kwara State and shall continue to dutifully support His Excellency in advancing the Kwara Project for the betterment of the good people of Kwara State. “I am also of one mind with His Excellency that the task at hand is much too important for us to succumb to sponsored fabrications that are patently designed to distract and cause disaffection,” he said. Investigations by Sunday INDEPENDENT revealed that there were more inclinations in Ilorin to see that the matter would go beyond both Logun and Awodun. Abdulfatah was, howeve,  unavailable to respond to the allegation, as an aide to the former governor who begged not be mentioned in the matter, said that it was “complicated” and would not want to be mentioned at all in the case. Though the former governor travelled out of the country, the aide said his boss had nothing to hide.