LOKOJA – Stakeholders for the review of the recent election in Kogi State have blamed security agencies and INEC for not paying adequate attention to early signals of violence identified by civil society organisations and other relevant bodies, saying it caused the high rate of election violence across the state. They also identified the quest for power, unemployment, poverty and over monetisation of political offices as tonic for elections violence in the country. This as journalists that covered the election were commended for their strict adherence to the ethics of their profession with timely and accurate reportage of the events. These were the summation of stakeholders of post-election media dialogue organised by Search for Common Ground, (SCG) a non-governmental organization. The event took place on Tuesday in Lokoja, Kogi State capital. The programme officer of the organisation, Gift Omoniwa, noted that they deployed 21 longtime observers (LTO) to 21 local government areas of the state whose reports were analysed and indicted political institutions and actors for the wanton violence unleashed on the electorate. She added that over 70 violence incidents occurred across the state with fatalities and destruction of property, blaming the security agencies for not doing enough to curtail or deal decisively with the perpetrators. According to her, ethnic politics, corruption, unemployment and compromise by relevant authorities have become the bane of free, fair and credible elections in the country in recent times. She added that her organisation had sent early warning signals of proliferation of arms, breeding of thugs and some hot spot LGAs for the relevant authorities to take action, lamenting that the advice was ignored with the consequences on the electorate. She noted that unless drastic measures were taken by the government and the National Assembly to carry out holistic electoral reforms that would engender electronic voting and downplay monetisation of political offices, the country would continue to suffer elections violence. “We have identified early warning violence signals to the relevant authorities but they failed to act on it. “The election was marred with serious infractions. Thugs had field day, snatching ballot boxes, shooting at polling stations which disrupted electorate from exercising their franchise.”