P/HARCOURT – In view of the global climate change, the Environmental Rights Actions/Friends of the Earth Nigeria, ERA/FoEN, has charged the Nigerian government to ensure that the country halts the importation of petrol and Diesel engine combustion cars by 2030. This is even as the Environment Rights group restated the need for the country to diversify from fossil fuel and invest more in renewable energy resources for a cleaner environment. Speaking during his remarks at the 12th National Environment Congress with the theme “Beyond oil: Tackling Institutional Gaps in Natural Resource Governance”, Dr Godwin Uyi Ojo, the Executive Director of ERA, noted the need for the country to leave mineral oil behind and pursue alternative source of energy, for economic and technological development. Dr Ojo charged the government to put in place parameter for a transition, as other developing countries of the world are doing. He urged the country and stakeholders in particular to reflect on the future of the oil and gas industry in Nigeria, in relation to the significance of alternative sources of energy, and dwell on the institutional governance gap, that need be addressed. The Executive Director of ERA stated that the theme of the conference was apt in tackling institutional gaps in Nigeria as global energy landscape was witnessing Fundamental changes and some of the most rapid advances in decades. Dr. Ojo warned that the oil age is over, fearing how Nigeria will transit from oil dependency to renewable sources of energy, even according to him, indicators show that there is hardly any institutional, charge to address those changes. In his keynote address, Professor Fidelis Allen of the University of Port Harcourt, observed that mineral oil was becoming a global commodity of significance for addressing the world’s energy needs, hence countries that have it, such as Nigeria and members of Oil Producing and Exporting Countries, OPEC, have had their economies invested into global economy. Professor Allen submitted that n inflammable subject in the international politics and diplomacy, in the concept of ravaging global capitalism, with results of growing inequality, between countries of the North and South. He also noted growing problems associated with oil production and its implications for institutions governance of natural resources in Nigeria. Blaming poor leadership in the country, he warned that continuous flaring of gas, failure of government and oil companies to cleanup all oil polluted sites in the Niger Delta, emergence of illegal oil economy and its destructive consequences for environment and social fabric of communities, lack of social basic amenities and growing inequality and tension, the society are a few areas in the life of the country, indicating failure of the governance of the oil. Chairman of the occasion, Barrister Nurudeen Ogbara, urged Nigerians to face renewable energy, and tackle institutional gaps in natural resource governance in Nigeria, due leadership irresponsibility Ogbara, former chairman Nigerian Bar Association NBA, Ikorofu, Lagos, branch regretted that, since 62 years ago( 1958) , when oil was discovered in Oloibri Nigeria, the government had not used the resources, to achieve meaningful development, stressing that even the communities from where the oil is being extracted, has not benefitted from the exploration. “The problems that made oil a curse to reoccur, and make alternative energy also a curse , meaning, we had to put in place certain parameters to forestall the possibility of alternative energy becoming a curse, as the oil.”, he submitted.