The Federal Government has accused the U.S. of attempting to sow seed of religious mistrust among the various religious groups in Nigeria with its recent report. In a statement issued in Abuja on Sunday, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said the Federal Government rejected the U.S. designation of Nigeria as “a country that engages in or tolerates severe violations of religious freedom”. The U.S. government was last week reported to have added Nigeria to a ‘Special Watch List (SWL)’ of countries that have engaged in or tolerated “severe violations of religious freedom”. Mohammed said that the iniquitous tag stemmed from an orchestrated narrative that had long been discredited. He stressed that the people of Nigeria enjoyed unfettered freedom to practise their religion. The minister blamed failed politicians and disgruntled elements – some of them supposedly respected leaders, for latching on to religion as their trump card, especially in the run up to the last general elections. He said it was unfortunate that the U.S. fell for the antics of “the discontented and the unpatriotic few, who will not hesitate to hang Nigeria out to dry on the altar of their inordinate ambition and their sheer animosity towards the Buhari-led administration”. He said the Nigerian government was aware of how the political opposition in particular, had spared no resources in deriving political capital from the various security challenges in the country. “The deliberate effort to give religious colouration to the farmers-herders clashes and the Boko Haram insurgency, in particular, has undoubtedly helped to mislead the U.S. into concluding that the government is doing little or nothing to guarantee religious freedom in the country. “But, as we have always said, the farmers-herders clashes have nothing to do with religion, but everything to do with environmental and socio-economic realities. “The religious tag given to the clashes has no basis in fact, but it is very convenient for those who will very easily give the dog a bad name just to hang it. “On its part, the Boko Haram terrorists are extreme fanatics who do not subscribe to the tenets of any religion, in spite of their pretense to Islamic adherence,” he said. The minister said the good news was that the government had succeeded in curbing the farmers-herders clashes through the implementation of proactive and multi-dimensional strategy, yielding remarkable results. He added the government had largely defeated the Boko Haram insurgency. “On the El-Zakzaky issue, which was referred to in the report by the U.S. government, it is purely a criminal matter, which is being handled by a court of competent jurisdiction,” he said. The minister stressed that while the government welcomed constructive criticism from any quarter, it rejected any attempt to sow seed of mistrust among the various religious groups in the country. Nigeria, U.S. To Discuss Areas Of Concerns Over Watch List — Presidency Meanwhile, the presidency said the decision by the U.S. government to place Nigeria on its Watch List does make Nigeria a country of concern on religious freedom. Speaking to newsmen on this development, Malam Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, said Nigeria and the U.S. would deliberate on the matter early next year. According to him, placing Nigeria on U.S. watch list carries no immediate implication, and that does not in any way make the country an area of concern as being asserted in some quarters. “The correct U.S. government position is that the addition of Nigeria to the watch list of the IRF does not make Nigeria a country of concern on religious freedom. “The watch list carries no immediate implication, except for the need for both countries to discuss areas of concern over the next year. We are looking forward to such discussions with our partners, the U.S.” The presidential aide maintained that Nigeria as geo-political entity had no policy that promotes one religion against the other. According to Shehu, the right to freedom of worship for all citizens is guaranteed in the Nigerian constitution. “We have no policy that promotes one religion against the other. “The right to freedom is guaranteed by the constitution and we have no problem observing that,’’ he said. The inclusion of Nigeria in the religion violations list, which has continued to attract mixed reactions, was announced by the U.S. Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo. Social Media Bill To Protect Vulnerable Groups— Presidency Again, Garba Shehu, Senior Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari, has explained that the administration had no reason whatsoever to restrict the media space, explaining that the proposed Social Media Bill was meant to protect vulnerable groups in the society. He has, therefore, tasked media stakeholders to pioneer the emergence of a social media regulatory framework that protects minority groups, whether tribal or religious, as well as ensure contents protect the privacy of the individual and shield vulnerable youths from addiction. The presidential aide observed regrettably that the social media, as presently served, was fraught with danger and open to terrorist, divisive contents, adding that media practitioners were better placed to pioneer a bottom-up approach regulations. The senior special adviser to the president spoke on Sunday when he graced the AGM of APC correspondents in Abuja. He said: “Social media has become a problem for many families because the rights of women and children are being abused. There is a need to protect vulnerable members of the society, the minority – whether tribal or religious – in our own country. “So, it makes sense that you, as media stakeholders, come around the Minister of Information and Culture and formulate the kind of regulation you want so that it is not that there is top-bottom approach, so that government will not be accused of imposing a regulatory mechanism on the media. “The minister is saying come, sit down with me and let us talk about it. And I was told that the day he called on NUJ, they walked out of him. If that report is true, I think it is very unfortunate. “I think we need to come around him and offer media-driven solutions so that at the end of it this country will have a vibrant and effective social media communication system. “At the same time, it is the one that does not drive children to the addiction and that it also protects consumers of media contents from harmful invasion, either of our privacy of addiction for children of some massless commercialism that are profit driven and they are taking advantage of our own exposure to mass communication system. “I think I will like to appeal that please, give serious consideration to some of these elements and see how the media in the country can work together with government to find communication solution to purely communication problem. It is not political.” He stressed that despite the president’s infamous link to Decree 4, that the administration had no reason to constrict the media space or weaken the media, pointing out that civil society groups which raised the alarm did so for their own selfish gain. “The government has no reason to undermine or weaken the mass media. When you realize it, in countries where the mass media are being suppressed, where there is no freedom of expression and information, you find out that the media space tends to decline, it becomes smaller, media houses close down.” The president’s media aide also noted that the nation’s elite were opposed to his principal because of his principled stance on equitable distribution of the country’s resources. He said their dislike was largely due to his refusal to favour individuals in the sharing of oil wells. He explained that as result, the unnamed elite had chosen to brand not only the president as a bad man but also those working very close to him, whom they have derogatorily referred to as ‘cabal’, noting, however, that it was not an offence to belong to the president’s kitchen cabinet. He stated that such negative perception of the president and his team was part of the price public office holders might have to pay for accepting to serve. He said: “For some of our elite, Buhari is a bad man because you cannot go to him and say give me oil well and he will sign paper and give you. “So, we understand the game that is playing out and there is always a price, in any case, to pay for that kind of exposure. “Even the president himself, the kind of things that are being said of him, if he did not offer himself to serve, some of those things, people would not even have the chance to say them against him. “So, we will live with it, we will accept it because it goes with the territory.” He maintained that despite the effort to cast a demeaning veil over the president’s kitchen cabinet by using the derogatory word, cabal, to describe the team, the personalities in question were accomplished Nigerians who ordinarily had no need of government but had offered their services to the country. He noted, however, that the administration was not alone in the accusation of harbouring a cabal which connotes negativities – such as to conspire, intrigues, mystique, occult, secret – observing that almost all governments before had always been alleged to accommodate a cabal.