Mr. Muda Yusuf, the Director-General of the Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), in this chat  with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, explains how the Nigerian economy grew by 2.28% in the third quarter of 2019 from a revised 2.12 percent in the second quarter, making it the second straight quarter of expansion in the year. Excerpts: Sir, what is your take on the Nigerian economy in the last two quarters of the year, and the recent World Bank review of the nation’s economy? Well, the Nigerian economy grew by 2.28% in the third quarter of 2019 from a revised 2.12 percent in the second quarter, making it the second straight quarter of expansion in the year. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network So far, the economy has expanded 2.27%, much below the annual population growth rate estimated at 3%. Growth reported in the third quarter was not broad-based as 10 sectors recorded expansion in growth, six contracted and three sectors saw growth moderate. Both the World Bank and International Monetary Fund expect growth to remain subdued in 2019 and 2020. The World Bank expects growth to print at 2% by 2019-end and 2.1% by 2020-end, while IMF puts 2019 and 2020 growth figure at 2.3% and 2.5% respectively. The growth envisaged is still non-inclusive as it falls below the population growth rate. Nigerian would need to grow by at least 5% based on consensus estimates to address rising incidence of unemployment and poverty. The quality of the investment environment is a key factor in the sluggish growth recorded in 2019.  Investors still grappled with the challenges of high operating cost, policy uncertainty and regulatory risks.  Security issues took a toll on investment in some parts of the country. Are you making reference to Nigeria’s headline inflation record? Yes. Nigeria’s headline inflation accelerated to an 18-month high of 11.85% in November from 11.61% in October. The month-on-month sub-index, a better measure of prices, rose by 1.02% in the reference month up from 1.07% in October. Food inflation, jumped to almost a two-year high of 14.48% in November while core inflation, accelerated by 8.99%, up from 8.88% in October. So far, inflation averaged 11.35% in 2019, above the CBN’s preferred 6-9%. What about the manufacturing sector in this context? Manufacturing sector grew marginally by 1.1% in the third quarter, up from -0.13% in the previous three months, bringing average growth between January and September at 0.59%. Between July and September, growth in the sector was buoyed by rapid expansion in the cement industry, which grew 6.87%. Unpacking the components, we note that growth in the sector is not broad-based as only four of 14 sub-sectors including cement and paper industry saw growth printed higher quarter-on-quarter. The sector has been the biggest beneficiary of CBN’s aggressive credit push to the real sector, receiving N459.69 billion out of N1.17 trillion disbursed by deposit money banks between May and October. Anyway, from business perspective, local manufacturers still find the business environment unsupportive given the myriads of challenges such as epileptic power supply, poor road network, high cost of borrowing, over-regulations, multiplicity of levies, weak demand, sluggish economic recovery, port-related challenges -delay in clearance of imported raw materials, heavy congestion, etc. These constraints make local manufacturers produce at higher costs, making their products less competitive compared with cheap foreign ones, the reason local producers operate below full capacity as capacity utilisation is some 55% as at December 2018. What about the impact on land border closure? The impact of the land border closure has been mixed. On the positive, the policy has curtailed smuggling of rice, poultry products, vegetable oil, sugar and petroleum products. On the flip side, it has also (a) compounded the woes of manufacturers who depend on sales of ETLS registered products to ECOWAS countries. Some experienced supply chain disruptions as they could not get inputs supply from subregion (b) resulted in higher food prices and (c) paralyzed economic activities in border communities. In our opinion, curbing smuggling can be best addressed through effective border policing as the menace can reoccur once smugglers find alternative routes. As a sustainable solution it is imperative to fix the fundamental issues of high cost of domestic production, the prohibitive cost of cargo clearing at the Lagos ports, prohibitive import tariffs, without hurting domestic industries, high cost of logistics within the economy, and border policy capacity. Sir, as more companies begin to use robots in the workplace, what threats can you say it poses to the workplace? The issue of technology where attempts are being made to use technology to replace human beings will not go well, especially with our desire to have sustainable development and also have decent work agenda around the world. This because anywhere you are able to deny workers or deny citizens decent means of livelihood, then it is clear that it would be difficult to address the issues of peace and stability. The key to moving forward is the future of work. The future of work which can still guarantee some of the fundamental rights workers have already earned. I have tried to share in some of those fundamental rights. What are the fundamental rights you are referring to in this context? Some of the fundamental rights that were brought by this very important institution are the rights of a worker to collective bargain. A worker is not a slave; he is entitled to negotiate his condition of service going forward in whatever form the economy of the country operates.  The right must continue to be guaranteed and that’s why we requested for a new social contract going into the digital world, and in the technological revolution we need to ensure that workers will continue to actually exercise these rights. Is it plausible to see workers’ rights to protest as one of those rights? Yes!  It is plausible for workers to strike. It is their right. Again, the right to decent work, the right to fewer hours of work can also be seen as plausible because we have also seen that with the advent of technology people are now made to work longer hours without even being paid. It seems notable personalities across the globe have been supportive of worker’s rights in every ramifications. Don’t you think the age long advocacies as being carried out by workers on issue affecting them are now yielding results, and attracting sympathies? It is true. They are yielding results and in the same breath attracting sympathies. For instance, we have had very progressive pronouncement by labour leaders in this chambers where some of them are very supportive of the fact that the issue of minimum wage should be universal. In the same vein, we have seen President Emmanuel Macron of France say so clearly in the case of Europe. The president had seen the cause of the issue of social instability and the movement of people from one place to another in search of greener pastures, and have in that light been advocating that there should be a uniform minimum wage in Europe that should be enforceable. Similarly, we have heard the Chancellor of Germany and leaders pushing for panacea towards social justice. As widely known, global peace is social justice. You cannot have peace around the world if there is no social justice. Can you throw an insight to why there is strong advocacy towards social stability across the globe? As you are aware, in many places around the world investors will not go to the country where there are conflicts because they will always want a situation where there is peace and that will drive development. Similarly,   if we also have a pool of youths everywhere around the world that are not engaged, that can also be seen as a problem. A century ago, for instance, the founders of the ILO recognised the importance of social justice in securing peace, against such background of worker exploitation in the industrialised nations of that time, and now looking back, can you say the organisation has achieved it aim in this regard? It is difficult to answer yes or no. The reason for my response cannot be farfetched as the effort is a process, and progress is been made. We started after the First World War when there was instability, when there was lack of peace; that is how the world leaders thought that the only way to address the issue of the aftermath of the First World War was to have this organisation that can be able to regulate labor practices around the world.  That is the particular reason that has actually necessitated the forming of this organisation. I think it is even more desirable now than 100 years back as inequality has increased together with poverty. I said yesterday that inequality and poverty anywhere in the world are threats to prosperity. We have seen that happen from one jurisdiction to another, and that is why we said to them in this centenary that we are expecting a very strong instrument in form of convention to address the issue of violence and harassment of workers. Against this background, can we deny the fact that the passion being exuded here can be brought to bear back home. Of course, it would definitely be brought to bear back home.  That is why we are passionate as workers, and we want a very strong instrument. This is because even back at home, we have seen how minors and women are being harassed on daily basis.  As you can see, the whole world and workers have this as a major issue and that is why we need to confront it from a global perspective. We are in quest of a convention that can actually guarantee lack of harassment or zero tolerance to harassment and also the issue of violence in the work place. The second issue is also about having a very strong declaration. There is a committee in the world working on a very strong declaration. Remember when the ILO was founded, it was usually referred to the Philadelphia declaration. Philadelphia declaration is declaration about social justice, and it has been referred to by all leaders around the world that the declaration is actually the foundation of the work of ILO and it is the foundation of having industrial peace in all jurisdictions. Therefore, building on the successes of the Philadelphia declaration we are expecting from this conference and at the end of the conference very strong declaration that will also complement the Philadelphia declaration. We don’t want that instrument to be watered down because it will have expression in all countries around the world. What is your take on collaboration between the organised business sector and the government? On a quarterly basis, government has instituted an economic forum through which it engages representatives in the private sector. This has been beneficial. It is a forum through which government gets feedback on its performances on economic matters as well as an opportunity for organised businesses also to be able to share its fears and concerns with government. This has worked in the past three years. We want to encourage government to sustain this and deepen it by not allowing it to be a platform through which they just inform organised businesses about what government is doing, rather, it should be an opportunity for organised businesses that consists of NECA, NACCIMA, MAN and others to make presentation on whatever subject matter will be discussed at those platforms so that government can reap the benefit of direct feedback from organised businesses. We look forward to sustenance of it and improvement on what has been achieved by building on it to ensure that they give organised businesses a voice on that platform. For the industries that were moribund even before the present political dispensation, what do you suggest the government should do in ensuring that such industries are revived? There are many initiatives that government can take to ensure businesses thrive and those that are comatose come back to life. One of it is what government had done recently with regards to the textile industry. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), announced two weeks ago, that it was withholding FOREX disbursement to importers of textile materials. In order words, what that translates into is that it wants to bring life to local manufacturing of textile industries. That is just one out of the several sectors that require government intervention. That also takes us to the issue of backward integration with regards to several factors where the Minister of Trade, Industry and Investment spoke about the tomato industry which is commendable. There should be a holistic application and total reform packages on all sectors of the economy. If government really needs to know where the problem lies, it could organise a platform through which organised businesses can share ideas with it on specifics that applies to each of the sectors of the economy. The diversification efforts of the government are commendable. It should not just be on the pages of newspaper or by mere words of mouth rather government should pursue a diversification agenda with all its vigor. Though oil price is picking up but that should not be the motivation for government because from past experiences, government says it wants to diversify especially when there is a drop in the price of crude oil but immediately it picks up, government relaxes. There should be deliberate policies to sustain what government has started especially in the agro sector. The issue of smuggling at the borders and porous entry point into the country that has allowed smuggling to thrive should also be a concern to government.