Few days ago, Minister of Water Resources, Engr. Suleiman Adamu, briefed the media extensively and passionately on the recent launch of Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilets Campaign, signing of the Executive Order Number 09 by President Muhammadu Buhari, declaration of a state of emergency in the Water and Sanitation sector, among other germane issues. CHIBUZOR EMEJOR was there. Excerpts: Sir, could you give us the highlights of your activities since your re-appointment as the Minister of Water Resources? I want to use this singular opportunity to thank members of the media for your support in publicising the activities of this ministry. After my re-appointment as the Minister of Water Resources on August this year, the Ministry has had very robust activities and has been working very hard to consolidate on the gains made during my first tenure in affecting the lives and well-being of people of Nigeria particularly in the provision of water and sanitation. Immediately after my re-appointment, I have been meeting with the management and staff of the ministry. We agreed to get back to work. We reviewed the massive delivery of the WASH Action Plan. It is the tool for the effective delivery of our mission. As you can see, we participated in the 2019 World Water Week in Stockholm, Sweden. That was my first international engagement after my re-appointment. We signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Action Aid on Water, Sanitation and Hygiene programmes in the country. We got more commitment from Development Partners on the revitalisation of water and sanitation. May I remind us of the Launch of the National Action Plan for the Revitalisation of the WASH Sector and declaration of “State of Emergency” on the WASH sector by President Muhammadu Buhari, on November 8, 2018, with the aim of establishing a renewed Federal-State partnership towards credible pursuit of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to ensure that the Federal Government effectively guides and supports states investments and reform efforts. Also, a National Coordination Office on the implementation of the National Action Plan has been set up. In this regard, there have been series of workshops and meetings held while Development Partners and International Research Institutes have pledged to support the National Action Plan in the area of funding, governance, sanitation, Monitoring and Evaluation and capacity building. So far, Guidelines and Terms of Reference for State participation in a Technical Assistance Programme have been developed and distributed to the 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.  Eleven States have responded and declared a “State of Emergency” namely: Ondo, Ekiti, Osun, Taraba, Delta, Ebonyi, Bauchi, Plateau, Jigawa, Katsina and Benue.  We await the response of the remaining States and the FCT. In our dedicated work to ensure adequate water supply for our urban areas, we plan to commission additional eight water supply projects by the end of this year (December 2019) making a total of 21 major water supply projects completed and commissioned from the inception of this Administration in 2015. We commissioned two such water supply projects in Kwara State on 14th November this year. In addition, we undertook many activities, foremost amongst them, was the issuance of the Executive Order No. 009 by Mr. President entitled “The Open Defecation-Free Nigeria by 2025 and other related matters Order”. This Order mandates the Federal Ministry of Water Resources to coordinate all activities towards ensuring an open defecation free Nigeria by 2025 through the National Clean Nigeria Secretariat, and directs all MDAs to join the Campaign. The Order mandates the Secretariat to ensure that all public places have accessible toilets within their premises and to enforce compliance. The Order also calls for legislation against open defecation by both Federal and State Legislatures. The Clean Nigeria Campaign Secretariat was established on May 27, 2019 and the national campaign was officially launched by His Excellency the Vice President on Tuesday, 19th November, 2019. By this, I hereby urge all State Governments to key into this campaign with all necessary commitment to ensure that Nigeria becomes Open Defecation-free by 2025. So far only 15 Local Government Areas in Cross River, Bauchi, Jigawa, Benue and Osun States including very many other communities have achieved Open Defecation Free (ODF) status. We have constructed 106 Sanitation and Hygiene facilities in the North East, North Central and South West Regions. We have domesticated the production of Hydrogen Sulphide vials at the National Water Quality Reference Laboratory. We have also developed and submitted the Country Report on Global Analysis and Assessments of Sanitation and Drinking Water (GLAAS) to the World Health Organisation (WHO). Recently, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo launched the National Campaign on Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilet.  What is the next line of action after the launch? First, the campaign against open defecation is a gradual process. We selected community WASH members. We have developed a roadmap and work action plan. The declaration of state of emergency on water and sanitation has been done by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Federal Executive Council has approved it. We had the national launch and now we have an Executive Order Number 09 that establishes this campaign. So we have come to the turning point. The next thing is the implementation of the Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilet Campaign.  We will continue campaign and advocacy. We will continue to shape our campaign. Like I said, it is basically anchored on behavioural change. So, our target is to get people to change their behaviour. If we are able to achieve that, then, we have solved more than 90per cent of the problem. We still need to do more advocacies. I mentioned that only 11states in Nigeria have declared a state of emergency in water and sanitation. Other states that have not declared are still sleeping, in spite of the efforts we have made. So, we will continue to talk to them. Very soon, after the festive periods, we are going to move to states that are still sluggish and we will continue to shape our campaign. We are going to bring more partners to work with us in the advocacy, such as the international community, development partners, civil society groups. We are already compiling data on them. We are going to work with both religious and traditional leaders.  That is being mapped out now. What we have is the complete campaign ready. Our communications strategy is ready.  From January, I assure you, you are going to hear more about us. We are going to have champions against open defecation.  We are going to use different approaches. We are going to make people to adopt toilets. We will like to see people going to schools as individuals or corporate organisations to adopt toilets. We need to mobilise the entire country especially the private sector to be part of this campaign. This is not a programme that will be done 100 percent by government by awarding contracts and so on.  We will spend most of our money on advocacy, training and communications. One of the reasons responsible for open defecation is poverty. Many Nigerian homes cannot afford to build toilets. Is there any collaboration between your Ministry and Federal Ministry of Housing in the provision of decent toilets for the citizenry across the country? Yes, we have identified them. We still want states to take full responsibility of this campaign. Apart from Abuja, that is the Federal Territory, every other land belongs to the states. These people who use the toilets are living in particular states and local government areas. We are not unmindful of the special requirements of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that says, we should leave no one behind. People that are weak and vulnerable, we will have to find a way. The communities need to support them. We would like people to understand the importance of building toilets as against building petrol filling stations or mosques or churches. We need to start with the basics, which is sanitation. It is very important for us to do that. There are so many ways toilets can be built. There is community effort. We hope that communities can come together to build toilets. We are going to encourage communities and support them.  They can adopt toilets.   We intend to get corporate partners on board so that they can build toilets in schools and other public places. I am sure that within the next six months, you hear more from us and by God’s grace; we are not going to relent in our efforts. We cannot separate water from sanitation. How is the relationship of your Ministry with the Federal Ministry of Environment? We know that November/December was the height of the launch of this programme. It was a time that the officials of Federal Ministry of Environment were attending conference abroad. The ministers have been in and out of the country. Right now, they are out of the country. I tell you, I received full commitment from the Minister of Environment and his counterpart, Minister of State for Environment. They are with us on this programme. Where we had an issue before, which is harmonisation of the Sanitation Policy, they are ready to support us so that we will come out together as one team under one government to achieve our objective of sanitising this country. There is the Youth Graduate Empowerment Programme under the River Basin Development Authorities. What is happening to the implementation of the programme? The programme started with a lot of vigour. It was started mainly by the last management that we inherited from the River Basin Development Authorities (RBDAs) and when the new management was put in place, they are settling down. Last two weeks, I had to address the meeting of RBDAs. We decided at a point that instead of running the youth empowerment programme separately that Songhai Model of farming should be adopted. So, what is happening is that some RBDAs have already incorporated the youth graduate scheme into the programme. Going forward in 2020, we are going to address the issue of revitalising RBDAs.  The programme is very dear to my heart. As a matter of fact, we are going to have a retreat in January to review entirely the activities of RBDAs to see whether they have been working in conformity with their mandate or not. We will find out their challenges and see how to resolve them in order to move on. How is your collaboration with Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in the area of providing irrigation for the farmers to achieve food security? Yes, we are collaborating with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The Executive Order Number 09 mandates all government agencies to collaborate with Federal Ministry of Water Resources. You need to read the provisions of the Executive Order Number 09. It also mandates security agencies to work with us in the enforcement of the Order. So, even some agencies were not collaborating with us, I think, Executive Order Number 09 has made very clear on the need for them to collaborate. Very soon, we are going to start reaching out to them. We just decided to allow these festive periods to pass. Nobody will listen to you now. Besides, our team has been working so hard since November last year to this December.  Don’t forget that the launch of WASH Action Programme took a lot of efforts. So, since 18 months now, my people have not rested.   So, Executive Order Number 09 gives us the bite to enforce the campaign. Yes, there is continuous cooperation between the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and our ministry. Two days ago, we played host to Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN). They told me that the Federal Ministry of Water Resources has not been given enough credit in the present rice revolution in the country. In the North, farmers can only cultivate rice during the rainy season and twice during the dry season due to the water provided through irrigation facilities. In the South, they can cultivate rice twice in a year, one through the rainy season and another one, through irrigation. Looking at 2020, what are the major areas that your ministry is planning to give priority attention to? I wish to say that as we enter into 2020, we are going to focus on the following. First, we are going to vigorously pursue the implementation of Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilets Campaign and the implementation of the Executive Order Number 09. We are going to improve on the implementation of WASH Action Plan as well as PEWASH programme. A lot will be done in the area of sanitation and hygiene. We will provide impetus for the states to do the needful. The states have responsibility to provide facilities in water and sanitation. Since we came in, we inherited about 116 relatively abandoned projects. We will continue to work to ensure that more projects are completed and commissioned. Some projects are going to be commissioned any time from now. We will continue to do more. I don’t foresee us commissioning 116 projects before the end of this administration’s tenure but at least, with the priorities we have given to them, we should be able to complete as many as possible. Also, we are going to enhance operations of River Basin Development Authorities in 2020. We need to support the agricultural policy of this government towards ensuring food security. A lot of things are going in the RBDAs, including the work we are doing with National Council on Privatisation. We have selected four River Basins now for commercialisation of their activities so that they don’t continue to depend on government’s subventions and budgetary allocations. We want them as much as possible to improve on their internally generated revenue so that they can sustain their activities. With our commitment to the training projects, we hope we will begin to implement full management procedure. We can hand-over some facilities to farmers so as to empower them and maintain their farms so that they will be able enhance irrigation and water needs in the agricultural sector. That is still in the offing, we will pursue it. Of course, in the training projects, we had some setbacks in 2017 and 2018, because of the high level of insecurity in the North West region of the country. Work has fully resumed in the rehabilitation and improvement of the Bakolori Irrigation Scheme after the initial setback created by security challenges. We have already directed RBDAs to commence the process of empowering farmers with tertiary irrigation infrastructure around them. We embedded such in our irrigation projects in the Ministry. Again, we are going to continue to support all trans-boundary activities related to Niger Basin Authorities. Nigeria is one of the nine member countries. Currently, Nigeria is the Chair of the Council of Ministers at Lake Chad Basin five -member Commission. Again, Nigeria is the Chair of the Council of Ministers. We will continue to encourage a better cooperation among the member countries. More importantly, we want to renew with vigour the issue of the programme on how to revitalise Lake Chad. We had a very successful conference in 2018. Mr. President has done tremendous work in drawing the attention of the world particularly in the shrinking of the lake Chad although we still have some people that are looking at the number, in terms of the cost and not the human cost that is involved. We continue to work in that direction. We want to seize this opportunity to thank UN Secretary General and the President of African Development Bank who have taken the lead to support this programme, they have galvanised resources towards this project. We will accelerate the implementation of the National Irrigation Programme which was launched in 2016. Irrigation remains one of the most viable options to food security of the nation in the face of growing population. In this regard, the Ministry has taken concrete steps towards ensuring food security under irrigated agriculture. In this quest:  The Ministry is tapping the potentials in the Niger-Benue Valley with a potential of 1.8 million hectares of irrigable land. The engineering design and project preparation for Donga (15,000Ha potential) and Nasarawa irrigation projects (21,000 Ha potential) have been completed and procurement process has commenced. Significant progress is being made to attain the target of 500,000 hectares of irrigable land developed by Government by the year 2030 in accordance with the (2016 – 2030) National Irrigation Plan. This will go a long way to impact on the food security agenda of this administration and significantly contribute to lifting many Nigerians out of poverty. Considerable achievement has been made in the World Bank assisted “Transforming Irrigation Management in Nigeria” (TRIMING) Project.  Also, works are ongoing on the rehabilitation and improvement of Kano River and Hadejia Valley Irrigation Schemes, as well as development of 2000 Ha in Dadin Kowa.