The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) at the weekend commended the National Assembly (NASS) for the early passage of the 2020 Appropriation Bill, adding that: “the footstep taken is expected to bring the nation back to the January-December budget cycle that has been derailed over the years”. Mr. Timothy Olawale, the Director-General of Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), in a chat with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, said:  “we commend the National Assembly for the prompt passage of the 2020 budget. “It signals the return to the January- December budget cycle in the life of the nation. We urge that this process would be finalised and the Appropriation Bill passed into law before January 1, 2020” Mr. Olawale averred that “the budget is ambitious on the side of recurrent expenditures as the payment of the new minimum wage and servicing of public debt, which has become bourgeoning, became critical factors. Although the capital vote is about 24% of the total budget, its effect will only be felt with timely implementation. “The fiscal and related reforms are commendable just like the government’s strategy of completing on-going projects in order to increase availability of critical infrastructure, obtain value for money and avoid waste of public financial resources”. Expressing concern at the debt to GDP ratio, the NECA Director General, commented that “although it has been rightly argued that the debt to GDP ratio is low compared to other African countries, the debt service to revenue ratio is very high. Considering that debt servicing accounts for about 24 per cent of the 2020 budget, while capital expenditure accounts for about the same proportion, it is imperative for Government to carefully watch the growth of public debt. There is need to avoid the temptation to borrow to finance consumption.” Speaking further, Mr. Olawale stated that:  “the budget assumptions – crude oil production, 2.18mbpd; crude oil price benchmark, US$55.00; exchange rate, N305:US$1; GDP growth rate, 2.93% – are understandably conservative compared to previous budget estimates. “The growth projection is realisable if the revenue estimates are realised and capital budget is reasonably implemented against the backdrop of a normalised fiscal year. The implementation of the new national minimum wage is also expected to boost aggregate demand and growth leading to improved fortune of the Real sector.” He specifically said:  “government should do all that is needful to ensure a disciplined implementation of the 2020 budget for the benefit of Nigerians. Efforts must be made to ensure sustained production of crude oil and robust implementation of fiscal and monetary policies. While further borrowing should not be an option, burdening the masses and organized businesses with further taxes and levies would be counter-productive”. He, however, urged the President not to be swayed by the imperative for revenue generation to fund the budget by not assenting to the Finance Bill as presented by the National Assembly. Focus should be on widening the tax net and curbing wastages and leakages.”