Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has commended Punch newspapers editorial on the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, describing it as a very good step in the right direction. Reacting to Punch’s front page editorial publication titled, “Buhari Lawlessness: Our Stand” while addressing newsmen in Warri, Delta State, Onuesoke described Punch’s publication as laudable, just as he advised that the newspaper action is worthy of emulation by other media outfits. “This is an opportunity for the Nigerian Press to gain respect. This is the moment when they should join hands with Punch to put this government excesses under control. Buhari and this administration appear to be cornered and the press should take a stand now bearing in mind that while the administration can take on Punch alone, it will be more difficult to take on the entire press. Act in your self interest now. “Punch had already taken a position against the bad behaviour of DSS and Buhari and I do commend punch for its stand against impunity. Bad behaviour should be condemned by all, irrespective of which political divide one belongs. Other upstream newspapers should also take a stand against bad behaviour by government agencies. Invading court with guns to arrest a suspect already granted bail by the same court is poor judgment,” Onuesoke noted. Describing Punch’s action as a bold step taking in the right direction, the PDP Chieftain maintained that the fight against repressive government, disregard for and arbitrary violation of human rights must continue if our society must be sane. He alleged that this Government has gone too far with the abuse of Fundamental Rights and Rule of Law, adding that what is even troubling is that the Legislative Arm of Government has now become an extension of the Executive Arm of Government. “I would have expected the legislative arms to push for a Bill against Vote Buying and a Bill for free healthcare. But no, rather they are bothered with Anti-Press Bills,” he noted. He disclosed that APC Administration led by Buhari wants Nigeria people to keep quiet so that a lot of horrible things will be happening without an avenue for people to express themselves.
Onuesoke stated that Buhuari and other governors were elected into a democratic government and they should stop shunning criticisms and freedom of speech which are part of the process in democracy.
“Nigeria is not Saudi Arabia or China where journalists or citizens who are critiques of the Government are jailed, abducted and killed,” he stated. Onuesoke advised Nigerians to toll the line of Punch reasons by entrenching the rule of law and institutionalize independence in Nigeria above national interest, stressing that Nigeria will be great again considering its enormous potential.