LAGOS – The thinking in some quarters that after what was thought to be a successful outing when the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) inaugurated a new State executive committee (exco) headed by Engr. Deji Doherty, has heralded a new beginning for the party, the recent claim by Dr. Adegbola Dominic that he remained the Lagos State chairman of the party, has confirmed that the leadership tussle is far being settled. Dr. Eddy Olafeso, National Vice Chairman of the party, South West, who was saddled with the responsibility of administrating the oath of office on Doherty, said that the day was one of the happiest days for him, recalling how he had visited Lagos State 67 times, trying to foster peace among the warring members, but noted that with the caliber of people at the event, all the enemies of the party would be disappointed. He appreciated all the members of the party, the National Working Committee who had endured the challenges of trying to reconcile the members, and all the leaders who brokered peace to bring the party together again. He said that it was a great job done by the leader of the reconciliation committee, Dr. Bimbo Ogunkelu Olafeso said that South West PDP was on a cross road as a result of failure of Lagos State which according to him was a very important State in the region. He said that Lagos was going to disappoint its enemies because it was going to be victorious, urging members to give Doherty, the needed support, stressing there was going to be a lot of hard work. He said that the challenges in the country were enormous; the nation was dying, but that all they needed to do was to hold each other’s hand to build a better and proper society for future generation. He said that the mistake and carelessness of the Yoruba nation was that they were too educated and sophisticated, too civilized to know that unless you carry your brother along, the journey would be long. He pleaded for understanding among the people, maintaining that Doherty might not be the most educated or the most handsome, but at the moment, God wanted to use him to lead the people on the journey of unity, appealing to all the members to ensure that he succeeded. He said that members should be sleepless in supporting Doherty, pointing out that they were going to cause the desires of their enemies in Lagos Sate to come to naught Doherty in his response appreciated all the party chieftains that made the restoration of peace possible. He specially thanked Ogunkelu, who was the chairman of reconciliation committee instituted by the NWC of the party, Senator Ben Obi, Chief Bode George, former Deputy National chairman of the party and a host of others. “Today marks the beginning of a new dawn in our party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State. Our democratic journey in Lagos over the past 20 years has been a tedious one which has been marred with one problem or the other, which has led us to failures at every council, gubernatorial and presidential elections in the past. “This disheartening track record was what created a serious concern for our National Working Committee headed by Prince Uche Secondus, the national chairman of our party. The NWC had in its wisdom created a fact finding committee headed by Senator Ben Obi to look for a lasting solution to the division and crisis in Lagos State. “This committee met with all our leaders and stakeholders and finally came up with recommendations to the NWC for implementation at the State level. The recommendation was that all vacancies must be filled according to the constitution, not by nominations, impositions or use of sharing formula that is 65/35 formula. “I must thank Mrs. Tanwa Olusi, who gave me a run for my money when she contested against me in the election but conceded to me and asked her supporters to work with me, to stir the ship of our great party, till 2021, however I would like to thank our supporters and party faithful on both sides of the divide. I believe that all of us are winners and I promise to work with you as we go through the positive transformation that is about to berth in our new party” he said. Doherty declared that the 35/65 formula was no more in existence as the party was one, maintaining that the party would henceforth operate on seven point agenda, which included, instilling discipline within the party, rebranding the party to attract Lagos voters, creating and establishing a strong Information and Communication Technology (ICT) department for control, monitoring and fast tracking information dissemination to the structure down to polling units, strengthening local governments, wards, zones and polling units by the year 2021, introducing  long lasting training programme on election management and monitoring, reorganizing and creating a legal department to oversee various elections and get all tools available for eventual court determined elections which the opposition APC has continued to abuse and, finally that the new exco would intensify and enhance mobilization strategy to focus on women and youth in various senatorial districts. Reiterating on the need for the party to take over and salvage Lagos State from what Doherty called dilapidated state of the public, primary and tertiary institutions due to poor funding and bad management and other infrastructural decay in the State, the chairman said Doherty also proposed a special intervention fund from the federal government for Lagos State, having classified the State as an Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) State, occasioned by influx of people from the North East States. He said that the Boko Haram affected States have created a mass exodus of young men and women into Lagos, in search of peaceful environment to make decent living. He also said that the effect had put the infrastructure of the State in an emergency situation, as well as increased crime rate in the state. Sunday Olaifa, chairman of the chairmen of Lagos State Local Government Forum said that all the 20 LGA chairmen were represented at the meeting which according to him was unprecedented and had shown that the PDP was ready to take over leadership of the state as everyone had started talking with one voice and would join hands with the newly elected chairmen to take the State to Eldorado. Otunba Segun Adewale, popularly called Aeroland said that with the inauguration of Doherty as chairman of the party, the party would return to path of honour, as the chairman, a successful businessman would not be depending on party’s funds. He maintained that the problem with Lagos PDP had been issue of members fighting over election funds, pointing out that the emergence of Doherty as chairman would take care of that challenge. He stressed that it had always been a challenge in Lagos PDP to have leaders fight over funds for elections every four years, pointing out that things would look up for the party now that it had a successful businessman as leader. “Winning election in 2023 is very easy because PDP has been the party helping APC to win elections. APC has never won election in Lagos. The only person working in Lagos is Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and he cannot be everywhere. The moment we have the right people at the polling units, we would win elections. The dignitaries at the inauguration included, Dr. Bimbo Ogunkelu, Rev,.BunmiJenyo,  Barr. Mrs. Modupe Adelaja, Mrs. Owoseni Titilayo, Muiz Dosunmu, Capt. Tunji Shelle, all 20 Local Government chairmen of the party, Chief (Mrs) Williams, State excos from Oyo, Osun and Ekiti States and a host of others, signifying something that looked like a gathering of peace loving people. The narrative might have changed when Dominic, while speaking with our correspondent said that the election and inauguration of Doherty was an exercise in futility, as he remained the authentic chairman of the party. He said that he secured a restraining order from the Lagos State High Court against the conduct of the exercise but the NWC in a flagrant disregard for the court order conducted the special congress which saw the emergence of Doherty as the new chairman of the party. He stressed that those supporting Doherty moved against him because of his loyalty and refusal to sideline the former deputy national chairman of the party South West and also the leader of the party in the State, Chief Bode George, who according to him sacrificed so much for the party. George on his part said that he would not associate himself with illegality, maintaining that with a pending case in court on the matter, the election of Doherty was illegal. “To me there is a case in court that what they did was not in accordance with the constitution of the party. Whatever the court decides is what I will comply with, and until then, I cannot be seen with any illegality. I didn’t make the constitution and the PDP is not a lawless party. Let us follow due process and laid down rules” George said. Chief Tunji Shelle, former Lagos State chairman of the party, said that there was no court injunction stopping the election. He maintained that he and other leaders of the party decided to support Doherty because of the failure of Dominic to reposition the party since he took over from former chairman of the party, Moshood Salvador, who dumped the party for the APC. “I don’t think there was any court injunction. If there is any, it was not out on the day of congress.  I don’t think that they have a copy of the injunction, even up till now. Apart from that, the congress committee was properly constituted by the national body, and a date was fixed and due process was followed in all that was done” he said.