YENAGOA – By February 14, 2020, the outgoing Governor Seriake Dickson would have spent two terms of eight years in office guaranteed by the nation’s constitution. On that day, Dickson, who was elected governor on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2012 and won re-election in 2015, would hand over the baton to an incoming government of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by the Governor-elect, David Lyon. The PDP, after a 20-year rule, lost to the opposition APC at the November 16 governorship election. During the 20 years it held sway, PDP produced four governors, including the late Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, Goodluck Jonathan, Timipre Sylva and Dickson. To ensure a smooth transition, Dickson had inaugurated a 41-member transition committee chaired by Kemela Okara, Secretary to the State Government (SSG). Dickson’s Chief of Staff, Government House, Talford Ongolo, is the vice chairman, while the immediate-past Head of Service, Luka Obireke, is the secretary. Other members of the committee included all serving commissioners, five Permanent Secretaries and political appointees. Inaugurating the transition committee, the governor stated that there was need for a proper handover process, irrespective of the outcome of the several initiatives pursued by the PDP to challenge the entire electoral process, which he described as ‘a charade’, noting that it was the first time in the democratic dispension in the state that an administration would be handing over power to a new government. Dickson said the purpose of the committee was “to articulate, record and document all the policies, programmes, projects and achievements of the restoration administration in all sectors in eight years.” According to him, the outcome of the committee’s work would be handed over in various forms to the incoming government. He said the achievements of his government would be a testimony and Bayelsans would be assured of continually enjoying the dividends of democracy. The governor commended members of the committee for their “diligence, sacrifice and manner” they served his administration. Besides, the APC also put in place a 59-member transition committee, chaired by a former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Werinipre Seibarugu, with a former Head of Service, Obegha Oworibo, as secretary. The party’s transition committee, which was inaugurated by Lyon, had 12 terms of reference. But, as the PDP-controlled government under Dickson winds down, his era and its legacies had become an issue of discourse among Bayelsans. While some felt that the administration had performed creditably, others believed that it was leaving much to be desired. Speaking on the issue, Gregory Ayebatonye, a Yenagoa-based businessman, argued that the impact of the Dickson administration could not be wished away. According to him, in the eight years of Dickson, Bayelsa experienced remarkable development. Ayebatonye said: “At least, the governor is not leaving Bayelsa the way he met it in 2012. Certainly, he and his restoration team were not idle. His eight years in office were not characterised by inactivity. So, Dickson, like his predecessors, has contributed his own quota to the development of the state and the people. Development is a process and leadership comes with its dynamism.” He argued that Dickson’s era left significant legacies in several sectors, but recorded more positives in the areas of infrastructure, health and education. “The outgoing administration also wrought changes in the public service and fostered discipline and decency in approach to government policies and programmes and management of public finance. The transparency policy is a landmark initiative to promote transparency and accountability in governance. From infrastructure to education to health, even agriculture, we cannot enumerate all the projects the outgoing administration carried out,” he added. Also, Onwuka Chinke, a resident of Yenagoa, pointed out that the administration did not do badly in the area of security, noting that the state’s security outfit, code-named ‘Operation Doo Akpo’, “is not overdoing things.” He, however, complained that the government did not do very well in the water and power sectors as residents depended on water vendors for supply, while Yenagoa had always been dark. Chinke said: “The government has tried its best. In the area of security, at least, Doo Akpo tried to fight crime. They (the operatives) are not harassing people like we used to see in some previous governments. “But in the areas of water and electricity, I don’t think the government did very well. You know, we buy water from those who hawk water in jerry cans; that is ‘mai ruwa’. And in the night, Yenagoa is always dark and bad boys usually attack people.” A development expert, Philip Slaboh, said that the Dickson administration started with some laudable initiatives, including the declaration of state emergency in the education sector. Slaboh, Executive Director, Development Initiators, a non-governmental organisation, stated that the government’s efforts at setting up model schools were not carried out effectively, as expectations were high as to what the standards should be, noting that some secondary schools were given facelift. The activist said, “On civil servants’ welfare, the performance was very low as this was grossly unattended to; staff salaries were not paid and promotion benefits not effected for some years now. On health sector, no significant changes were seen and this is one key area that really needed boast. “On infrastructure, it was clear from the output that a proper strategy for delivery was not in place as most of the roads embarked upon are still ongoing with no completion, while the Airport which has been completed is yet to be active. It was commendable to sanitise the civil service of ghost workers (through reforms) but also necessary to ensure genuine cases are addressed. “I will say the eight years have been a down-turn and up-turn of administrative management by his government. The state’s resources, in my opinion, were not well managed enough for the desired impact and development. “Security was not managed properly as there has been increase in crimes across the state in the last three years. Bayelsa really needs a good development blueprint that will set a pace for rapid development of all sectors that the state has been lacking all these while.” David West, a member of the state chapter of the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), scored the governor’s era below average in some areas. He said, “In my opinion, the Dickson administration has not performed very well in terms of infrastructural development, industrialisation, agriculture and human capacity building. “The allocations received in the past eight years cannot be equated with the level of work done. The administration’s performance is low and below the expectations of the people of Bayelsa State.” West, however, said the government “tried its best to take the three senatorial roads to where they are today.” “But on a general note, the Southern Ijaw side of the (Yenagoa-Oporoma, Central) road really suffered a setback as only little or no attention was given to it. Unlike the Nembe/Brass (East) road and the Sagbama/Ekremor (West) road that got some attention. However, take note that none of the three senatorial roads were completed under this administration,” he added. However, Daniel Alabrah, Dickson’s Special Adviser on Public Affairs, insisted that the governor would be leaving office with an enviable record of being the first to complete two terms in the state, saying the eight years would be remembered for many remarkable projects, policies and programmes. Alabrah said: “Some of the big-ticket projects include the Bayelsa international airport, which will transform the developmental narrative of the state, the Ijaw National Academy in Kaiama, construction of the first flyover in the state capital, dualisation of the Isaac Boro expressway (near completion), building of an ultramodern Governor’s Office complex, a 18-hole golf course and polo field to boost the state’s tourism drive. “The construction of the 80km Sagbama-Ekeremor road (ongoing), which ensured that vehicles got to Ekeremor for the first time since the project was conceived almost 40 years ago, establishing of two new universities, including the specialised Bayelsa Medical University, building and equipping of the Bayelsa Diagnostic Centre as well as the Bayelsa Specialist Hospital to a world class standard. “”The health policies of the Dickson administration deserving of mention include introduction of an effective and functional Bayelsa Health Insurance Scheme, establishment of the Bayelsa Drug Distribution Centre, reduction of maternal and infant mortality rate through the introduction of free antenatal for all pregnant women in the state and payment of stipends until the 11th month after delivery. “This policy has lifted Bayelsa to the foremost state in the South South in reduction of maternal and infant mortality. “The declaration of the state of emergency in the education sector led to the introduction of boarding schools in the state, the building and renovation of no fewer than 400 public primary and secondary schools across the state, building of 13 model secondary schools where over 15,000 students enjoy scholarship of free tuition, boarding, feeding, books and uniforms.”