ABEOKUTA – “Any Government that comes into power in Nigeria, whether state or federal, that is unable to convince the people of Nigeria that it means business within three months, can never make it.” That was the statement credited to the late Chief MCK Ajuluchukwu, the then Director Publicity for the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) in 1981, quoting Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s performance rating of Alhaji Sheu Shagari’s administration in 1979. Friday, November 29, 2019 was exactly six months Governor Dapo Abiodun took the oath of office as the fifth executive Governor of Ogun State with a promise to hit the ground running. Governor Abiodun was not a greenhorn in the race for the number one position in the State. In 2003, the Governor made a shot at the seat, but his ambition was cut short at the party primaries level, he was defeated by Otunba Gbenga Daniel to fly the flag of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Few weeks after he was declared winner of the March 9, 2019 governorship election, Governor Abiodun set up a star-filled economic team led by the former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Tunde Lemo to draw a road map for the socio-economic development of Ogun State. The team had in it, amongst others, a three-time governorship candidate in the state, Gboyega Nasiru Isiaka, who was considered, by many, as the most prepared governorship candidate in 2019 having contested for the same position twice. This is not to mention two former Deputy Governors; Senator Sefiu Adegbenga Kaka and Alhaja Salmot Badru, amongst other distinguished sons and daughters of the state in the team. The array of distinguished sons and daughters or what many called constellation of stars, cutting across political divides, was almost the best anyone can assemble in Ogun State and a clear indication that Governor Abiodun would not have issues selecting the best hands to deliver his agenda and promises within a short time possible. Six months after, there was no indication that Governor Abiodun was ready to constitute the cabinet apart from the massive renovation of Commissioner’s quarters at the Ibara GRA. While many were suggesting the likelihood of former Governor Rauf Aregbesola’s model in first term in Osun State, Others are foreseeing Governor Gboyega Oyetola’s model. No doubt, when Governor Abiodun is juxtaposed with other colleagues who took oath on the same day, with particular attention in the South West; Lagos and Oyo States, Ogun State is not doing well, especially with non-formation of cabinet which has obviously slowed down the pace at which the people of the state would have expected the Governor to hit the ground running. At a caucus meeting of Ogun State All Progressives Congress (APC) held mid October, Governor Abiodun assured party members that his cabinet list would soon be available. He said, “Cabinet formation was not on the table for discussion per se, it was part of the information I shared with the leadership that very soon, our cabinet will be formed and I shared with them the process it will follow. “And because we have said this government will be participatory and inclusive, I share with them the process that will also require them to contribute to nomination of candidates for Commissioners and they said they will get to me in a week or so. But when further asked how soon the people should be expecting the list, Abiodun said, “You will get that list as soon as you get it.” Governor Abiodun has continued to rule Ogun State with few numbers of Special Advisers and Consultants, a development which has caused a serious disquiet within the ranks of leaders and followers of the party. The situation, no doubt, has put the development of the state in reverse gear with Permanent Secretaries restricted in the operations of the government. Sunday Independent gathered that many accounts of the state have remained frozen till date while permanent secretaries cannot sign any cheque above N250, 000.00 Shortly before the caucus meeting, Sunday Independent gathered, Governor Abiodun had made up his cabinet list and was ready to release it when some groups of former lawmakers loyal to former Governor Olusegun Osoba, who is the leader of the party in the state, kicked and attempted going to the press, before they were reportedly prevailed upon by the veteran journalists cum politician. The development, it was gathered, led to the caucus meeting. At the meeting, Sunday Independent further gathered, Chief Osoba was blunt with the Governor on how he must respect the party’s supremacy and in the choice of persons for the position of commissioners. Chief Osoba was reported to have told the Governor that his political future will be dependent on the structure of the party in the State, sighting former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode as an example in Lagos State. This, it was further gathered, was after the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had to intervene at a point. It was further gathered that at the end of the meeting, it was agreed that each of the federal constituencies in the State should send the name of their commissioner nominees to the Governor for consideration as one of the criteria, it was learnt, was that the nominee must be a politician known up till the ward level. The outcome of the federal constituencies meeting only complicated the matter for the Governor as it was another sad development. Many of the meetings ended in fisticuffs while some party leaders have to spend a night at the Ogun State Police Headquarters in Eleweran, Abeokuta. In Ado Odo/Ota, for example, some aggrieved members of the party reportedly protested the influence of the Deputy Governor, Naimot Salako-Oyedele, who is from the local government. Some of these members had to tell the story of how the Deputy Governor’s family was not originally from Ota, but allegedly migrated from Ilorin in Kwara State, a long time ago. Another factor which might be slowing down the Governor in appointing his cabinet, apart from the godfather effect, is how to manage the alliances of kingmakers who brought him into power. Governor Abiodun had all the kingmakers in the State except former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former Governor Ibikunle Amosun behind him during the election, and with Abiodun’s disposition of all inclusive governance, many have also joined ship immediately Abiodun became the Governor. A few weeks ago, Gboyega Nasiru Isiaka, at a meeting of loyalist tagged ‘Believe Movement’, formally declared for the APC, also with a huge expectation of commissionership position and few other appointments ceded to his camp. This has further heightened the disquiet within the structure of the party who believed that GNI, as he is fondly called, should not reap where he didn’t sow, at least for contesting against Governor Abiodun in the 2019 elections. Apart from the non appointment of Commissioners, local government administration in the state had be left without executive heads since two months ago when the tenure of the elected Chairmen lapsed. The Local Governments and the Local Council Development Areas have been further pushed to the background as nothing is happening in the Councils since their accounts remained frozen for the past six months. A former Governor of the State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, at a recent engagement with the media, threw his weight behind Governor Abiodun for ‘taking his time’ before hitting the ground running in the State, but that will not be the same opinion of the former aide to the former Governor and the spokesperson of the Atiku Abubakar campaign organisation in the 2019 election, Segun sowunmi, who, in a recent open letter tagged ‘Note to Ogun Stakeholders’ scored the Governor the lowest mark not only in South West but in the history of democratic rule in the State. Sowunmi who based his assessment on general perception of capacity of office, stabilisation of governance and quick wins, said, “I make bold to say that in terms of the general perception of capacity, there is no gainsaying that Ogun has never had it so disappointing. I refresh your minds to how it was in the class of 1999 when Chief Olusegun Osoba, within six months, it was already clear that the Osoba government would take development to the fringes of the state and that the rural areas would get connected with activities. “Within six months, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, during his time, had become the wonder boy in government and project development. The entire country knew that something was up in Ogun State. Computerisation of the civil service had commenced. Also, structures and projects were already commissioned. Need I say that Daniel’s pace of work was, till then, unmatched in our country. Ogun State was in the news for all the right reasons. “Senator Ibikunle Amosun had, undoubtedly, within the period under review, showed his hand firmly around his strength in road constructions. He had opened up the Ogun State economy for the influx of private sector investors in a way that had not been done before. It is on record that the former President Goodluck Jonathan administration opened more industries in Ogun State than any other state in the country. And needless to say that there was a purposefulness that brought skilled Ogun indigenes in the private sector on board. He had also commenced without delay the review of the Daniel administration. Sowunmi further described the activities of Abiodun as winking in the darkness adding that the continuous statement about public-private partnerships ‘seem to me that the Abiodun government has no clear agenda of its own. And in case it does, it is going about things in a rather snail slow speed, which suggests a lack of preparedness.’ And to him, there is no justification for not having commissioners in the place in the state six months after. While reacting to Sowunmi’s piece, a media consultant to the Governor, Femi Ogbonnikan, in another piece titled ‘Before Segun Sowunmi Goofs Further’ called attention to what he termed giant strides so far recorded by the Governor saying, “Governor Abiodun has laid a solid foundation for growth and development across the nooks and crannies of the state and the wind of the positive change is blowing the stagnation and inertia that hitherto dogged progress and development in the state, thus, gradually paving ways for s new dawn of auspicious hope of a better tomorrow.” On the appointment of commissioners, Ogbonnikan said, “On the issue over the delay in forming the cabinet, no amount of distraction could hasten the administration from doing the needful. Be reminded that, Prince Dapo Abiodun did not vote himself into office, but it was a unanimous mandate of all and sundry. This is not going to be a one-man show, but in the spirit of the inclusiveness, right persons from the three senatorial districts will be chosen to form the expected cabinet.”