Lagos – The Federal Government has expressed its intent to improve the country’s power sector through effective metering that will meet consumers’ demands and also address liquidity challenges. Minister of Power, Saleh , who said  this during facility inspection of Momas Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company (MEMMCOL) factory in Ogun state, explained that effective metering of electricity consumers remains the best option to help distribution companies get more money to pay generating companies. He commended the management of MEMMCOL for outing up the gigantic meter manufacturing company that has capacity to meet Meter Assets Providers (MAPs) specification in the country. Mamman:  “I am very much impressed with the local content driven initiative by MOMAS Company on meter manufacturing company, to see a Nigerian producing meter up to 1,000 per day. This is indeed commendable. Momas is one of the top meter manufactures in Nigeria that we should be proud of. We should allow and encourage investors into the country and also gives consideration to our own local manufacturers to grow. Mr Kola Balogun, the Chairman of MEMMCOL, said that his company has the capacity to produce above 50,000 smart meters per month if given the support by government and adequate patronage from distributing companies. He commended the minister for inspecting his meter manufacturing company, while assuring had m that the company will continue to produce quality and standard meter that meets international best standard. “I want to tell Nigerians that we have the capacity and the capability to deliver metering solution to also bridged metering requirement in the country. “All we need is government interventions to be able to make liquidity available to us to produce for the larger populace that requires metering. “One of the major challenges is funding, because Discos needs recapitalization, adequate funding to buy sufficient meter for the consumers, he said. On MAP, Balogun said due to liquidity and insufficient fund, in terms of single digit from the financial institution, it posed serious challenge to metering f requirement which are the reasons for what the meter providers are facing. He appealed o government to ensure that local content is entrenched as policy in the power sector industry for meter licensee to comply with on local content policy. He urged government to upscale the 30 per cent local content act on metering to 70 per cent to give local meter manufacturer opportunities to attract investors. “We can increase our meter producing shift from one to three shifts to meet up the metering gaps if given the opportunities and patronage.”