Lagos  –  More facts have emerged on how Hakeem Odumosu, Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP) personally arrested the killer of wife of the Managing Director, Maersk Shipping Line Company, Gildas Tohouo.
The principal suspect, Goke Olamilekan, was found hiding on a mongo tree planning for his escape.
Crime Tracker learnt that the police, in a swift operation led by Odumosu, cordoned off the compound of the victims following a distress call to the police, less than an hour after the attack.
Akande Adeyinka, who was said to have been invited by Olamilekan, to help in carrying out the dastardly, act was also arrested.
Police source disclosed that the two suspects who invaded Lugard Avenue Ikoyi, home of Tohouo, on Sundnay night, were found by the CP, where they were hiding. The CP, the police source said, suspected that the suspects were still within the vicinity of the compound, which led to their arrest.
The source further disclosed that on arrival at the scene of crime, the CP’s subordinates were of the view that the suspects might have fled the compound, as they searched for a possible escape routes. But the CP was said to have insisted on a thorough search round the compound, noting that there was every possibility that the suspects might still be hiding inside the compound since the crime happened few minutes before their arrival at the scene.
We learnt that, as the search continued, the police boss beamed his torchlight on the trees in the compound that night, and he discovered an object hanging on the tree. The object was a human being and he was ordered to descend or risk being shot.
“It was Akande, who had to descend from the tree which he was hanging apparently waiting for an opportunity to escape from the compound unnoticed.
“In fact, the Sunday night operation by the police team was very effective and timely. From this experience I think members of the public have a job to do for the police to work effectively. We were able to arrest those boys because we got the information immediately it happened and we moved swiftly to the scene of the crime,” a source at Lagos Police Headquarters Ikeja noted.
It was gathered that the CP was on patrol, monitoring his men at various police stations and observing how they work at night when the distress call was received and headed to Ikoyi scene of the incident.
Crime Tracker also gathered that, Odumosu had before his arrival at the scene made a call to all Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers DPOs, to mobilise to the scene of the crime with instructions that all routes leading to the place be put under checks to ensure the suspects do not escape.
We reliably learnt that preliminary investigations by the police also revealed that the two suspects had planned the operation for three weeks before eventually carrying it out last Sunday.
The police investigation is said to have also found out that the two suspects hid their weapons in one of the vacant flats in the estate, while strategizing on how to carry out the operation.
The electrician had allegedly told his partner-in- crime to lie to the security men that he was going to see a certain Mr. Max, which coincidentally is the name of one of the residents of the estate.