Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama ,the President of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN), and the immediate past President of Trade Union Congress (TUC), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, gave an insight on the decisions collectively taken by organised labour to arrive at a consensus with the Federal Government on the new national minimum wage, and while the  government will have no reason to excuse itself from its full implementation. Excerpt: What is your take on the implementation of the new national minimum wage with its consequential adjustments? First and foremost, let me say that history was made with the signing of the agreement and the consequential adjustments of salaries arising from the new National Minimum Wage of N30, 000 per month signed into Law by President Muhammadu Buhari on April 18, 2019. I will not fail to mention that representatives of government and organised labour exerted so much energy, dedication, and intellect into the prolonged negotiation before reaching Agreement that is acceptable to both parties. Let me use this parley to commend His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari for the fatherly role he played throughout the exercise. In the same vein, history will also be kind to the Honourable Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Nwabueze Ngige for apprehending the Trade Dispute when the government side tried to derail the negotiation thus leading to series of meetings in his office before Agreement could be reached. The Acting Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs. Folasade Yemi-Esan also deserves commendation for bringing her motherly disposition to bear on the negotiation and for assuring the nation that accrued arrears will be paid. Let me also commend millions of workers at the federal level and those in the 36 States Public Services for their patience, understanding and for the confidence reposed in the leadership of the Trade Union side of the Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council (JNPSNC) to carry the negotiation to its logical conclusion. The next stage of the struggle is the negotiations that are going on in the 36 States of the Federation. Appropriate letters have been issued to those that will handle the negotiation at the State levels. We at the national level of the Union are nonetheless prepared to wade into the process anytime the need arises. I will therefore like to use this parley to appeal to our State Governors to cooperate with the labour team in their respective States on the consequential adjustment negotiation. Necessary machineries should be put in place towards ensuring that the entire negotiation is completed on or before the end of the year 2019 as anything beyond that may negatively affect the peaceful industrial relations atmosphere currently pervading the Country. It would be recalled that the Federal Government promised during the negotiation of consequential adjustment of salaries arising from the new national minimum wage of N30,000 per month to the effect that a Committee had been put in place to undertake a general salary review in the public service.  Are you hopeful that the government will keep to the promise? Of course, I am hopeful. We are waiting patiently for this promise to materialise. It should be noted that if this particular promise is not fulfilled, the trust between the people and Government, most especially the Civil Servants will be seriously eroded and nobody will take the government serious in the future. Government should try as much as possible to avoid treading that path as doing so may have far reaching consequences. What are the motivational factors that led to the convivial ambience that prevailed throughout the 2019 National Executive Meeting of yours association in Abeokuta, Ogun State capita? First and foremost, I will give gratitude to God for the spirit of camaraderie that prevailed throughout the period the meeting lasted. Again, considering the fact that we have been able to weather the storms over the years since our emergence in July 2012, there is no doubt that against all odds, all the set goals and plans were no longer difficult for us to achieve. With God, we had been able to demystify the complex nature of industrial relations practice in Nigeria by keeping our internal operations very simple, straightforward and direct. I think these are some of the things that have continued to make our members happy and friendly. As you can see, the collective attitude reflected during the NEC meeting you just congratulated me on. Again, as we had figured out from the outset, knowing full well the changes in the dynamics and complexities of industrial relations, we were compelled to make welfare our interest and massive investments in the training and retraining of our members at home and abroad high on the list of our priorities including the ongoing construction work of the future National Secretariat Complex of the Union in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The Complex is truly a landmark and a beauty to behold. We hope and pray that it will not take too long a time for us to complete and tastefully furnish the edifice for use of our teeming members. Also, this year’s NEC meeting of our great Union was unique in many respects. The meeting was carefully crafted in such a way to meet our commitments to the Association’s ideals as spelt out in the Constitution.  Not only that, we used this year’s meeting as a springboard for our forthcoming National Delegates’ Conference billed to hold on Wednesday  July 29, 2020 at the Nigeria Air Force Conference Centre in Abuja. How has it been since you were elected the President of the association? You will all recall that I was elected as the President of the Association in July 2012 at the National Delegates’ Conference of the Union that was held at the National Arts Theatre in Lagos. The mandate was renewed at another Conference inJuly 2016. To add to this enormous goodwill was the nod the NEC gave me to complete my tenure in July next year, 2020. It is against the background of this that I will continue to thank all the members of NEC for their good gesture and the confidence reposed in me as their leader. I am short of words to express my gratitude. All I can say for now is that I am greatly indebted to the NEC members. The undiluted love they have shown me will never be taken for granted and I will surely continue to work tirelessly for this platform even after the expiration of my tenure. This is in fulfilment of the wise saying that “To whom much is given, much is expected”. It is my hope that the legacy I will be leaving behind will be sustained and kept alive for the overall good of the union and also for its growth, development and continued stability. It shall be well with the union, now and always. What is the position of ASCSN on the recent tenure extension of Permanent Secretaries by the office of the Secretary to the government of the federation? Before stating our position, let me recall that the leadership of ASCSN in 2016 condemned the extension of tenure of the then Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Mrs. Jamila Shu’ara and called for the reversal of the offensive extension.  It took concerted effort by the Union to force Mrs. Shu’ara to exit the System. In consideration of our previous stand on extension of the tenure of permanent secretaries as I just recalled, it is obvious that our stand on the recent extension is not going to be different.  Despite the fact that the decision to extend the tenure of these Permanent Secretaries who are already due for retirement is hinged on the need to ensure that the new Ministers are properly guided, briefed about their sectors and to ensure that a solid foundation is laid for the delivery of the Presidential Mandate which they were given, we are in a blameless position to say that these reasons are not tenable. There is no doubt that the President is empowered by Section 171(1) and (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to make appointment to the position of Permanent Secretary. It should however be noted, that the issued Circular was not about appointment but extension of tenure. Suffice it to say that the extension of tenure which has no Constitutional backing  has affected the career progression and succession plans which have been instituted to give equal opportunities to all Officers in the Federal Public Service to advance to the peak of their careers. There is absolutely nothing like equity, justice and fair play in the extension that had been granted the affected Permanent Secretaries. With the ill-advised extension, the service has literarily been stabbed in the back and it is bleeding profusely. We have therefore leveraged with Federal Government on these vexed issue and we do hope that necessary corrective measures will be put in place to right the wrongs as recommended by the committee put in place to address this fault line. What is your assessment of the Civil Service now, compared to how it was in the past? As a strategic organ of government that formulates and implements policies for efficient and effective service delivery to the citizenry, the Civil Service should ordinarily be administered by educated and highly skilled personnel. It is precisely for these reasons that the British imperial lords who established the Service ingrained inbuilt mechanism in the system that promotes merit, competence, and high work ethics so as to ensure the sustenance of standards in manpower development and quality output. Rules were made to guide the efficient and effective running of the Service and these rules are strictly adhered to and applied to the letter in all circumstances. Promotion and advancement are done in accordance with to extant rules and not on primordial sentiment as to where one comes from or the religion he or she belongs to. As time went on, however a lot of distortions crept into the system such that experienced and knowledgeable Officers who could not be promoted as and when due started to resign out of frustration or began to doctor their ages with the hope of staying longer in the Service hoping that through this process, they will reach the peak of their career. It was in an attempt to stem stagnation problem in the Service that the idea of tenure policy for Permanent Secretaries and Directors began to be mooted by the Bureau for Public Service Reforms in 2004. Ultimately, during the Administration of late President Umoru Yar’adua, the four years single tenure for Permanent Secretaries and the four years of two terms (eight years) tenure for Directors were introduced in 2009. It is instructive to note that the introduction of the tenure policy for Permanent Secretaries and Directors in the Federal Civil Service opened new vistas of opportunities for senior civil servants to be advancing regularly to the top hierarchy of the Service and significantly reduced the incidence of stagnation as it were. This is the more reason why many stakeholders were taken aback when the present Administration opted to suspend the tenure policy. We see the suspension as a retrogressive idea that will take the Service many steps back. Since the suspension of the tenure policy, the Association has made several representations to the Government to reverse the decision in the interest of the Civil Service without any positive result. It is on this note that I wish to call on the Federal Government to restore the tenure policy so that normalcy can return to the Civil Service. President Muhammadu Buhari recently forwarded a letter to the Senate requesting the lawmakers to reconsider and approve the federal government’s 2016 to 2018 external borrowing plan, which he said will finance key infrastructural projects across the country between 2016 and 2018. He had requested for about $30 billion. The lawmakers however, rejected the request as majority voted against the request when it was brought for consideration. Sir, what is your take on this? Before I say the loan is uncalled for, let me say it was a thing of joy when it was announced more than a decade ago that Nigeria had exited her huge debt burden blamed for the country’s arrested development and progress at the time. Consequently, Nigerians were able to heave a sigh of relief and look forward to a new era of accelerated progress and development devoid of any heavy debt burden. It is surprising that the president was requesting for a fresh foreign loan when the latest Report from the Debt Management Office (DMO) put the Nigeria’s total public debt at $81.27 billion as at the end of March 2019.  According to the DMO, the external debt that stood at $10.32 billion in June 2015 rose to $25 billion by March this year, an increase of $15.3 billion. As if that was not enough, Nigeria had just received $3 billion from the World Bank to fix its power sector in addition to $2.4 billion it borrowed from the same bank last year while over $5 billion is also being sought from China for railway projects. The situation at the State level is not different as the domestic debt of the 36 States and the FCT (Abuja) as at the end of March 2019 stood at N3.792 trillion ($10.53 billion) according to the same Report by the DMO. It is indeed saddening that these debts pile up have really affected the country in no small way as the huge chunk of the Annual Budget is now set aside for debt servicing. This has impacted negatively on the nation as the country is reeking with abandoned projects and dearth of infrastructural facilities.  This is also compounded by the fact that it is now increasingly difficult to meet up with servicing this debt.