OSOGBO – Though, it was generally regarded as a natural occurrence, but the attendant effect on the Fulani Community living in Gaa Eleesun, Apala Farm in Iba, a sleeping town in Ifelodun Local Government Area of Osun State, killing 19 cows and two sheep leaves no one in doubt that something grievous had occurred in the land. It would be recalled that thunder struck on Friday, November 22, 2019 around 6.30pm, killing 19 cows and two sheep. The incident was the second of such in recent time. There were two thunderstorms in October resulting to the killing of several cows in Ifedore and Ekan-Ile Area of Ikare, Akoko North East Local Government Area of Ondo State. The Osun State incident occurred while some Fulani herdsmen living in the community returned to their base from grazing. There was very little rain accompanying the thunder leaving the owner of the cows and sheep with nothing as all his livestock were wiped out. Apala is a farm settlement in Iba and the location is surrounded by hills used for spiritual purposes. The thunder was terrific that the Fulanis rushed inside their houses and some minutes after, they discovered that 19 cows and two sheep belonging to a young single Fulani native in the community had all died instantly. The incident raised tension in the community as all Fulani natives in the area rushed out to see the effect of the thunder. The owner of the cow burst into tears immediately that his means of livelihood had been eliminated. He was surrounded by his kinsmen who pleaded with him to take it as act of Allah. The cause of the thunder storm is not immediately known but it was gathered that out of over 200 Fulani natives having flock in the town, cows and sheep belonging to this particular young Fulani in the farm land were affected. The traditional ruler of the community, Oba Adekunle Okunoye and State Police Commissioner, Mrs. Abiodun Ige confirmed the incident. Speaking on behalf of the traditional ruler of the town, Eesa who is the second-in-command to the monarch, High Chief Gabriel Oyelade   said “The people of Iba, have over the years been living harmoniously with Fulani natives in our domain and this will not cause any disaffection. “The death of the cows belonging to the Fulani living among us was a natural occurrence occasioned by a thunder that struck in the town. The community with the collaboration of the leadership of the Fulani community is on top of the situation. “The community is in peace and the people live peacefully with all non-indigenes including the Fulanis,” he added. The head of the Fulani community in Iba, Mr. Jimoh Bala Soliu, agreed that the incident was a natural occurrence which would not affect the peace of the town. He said the people of the town had been accommodating, even as he ruled out the possibility of any attack on their cows by their host community. He, however, lamented the loss of the cows and sheep, saying  “we (Fulani herdsmen) had just returned from pasturing when thunder started. We ran into the houses leaving our cows outside. But to our shock, we found 19 cows and two sheep dead outside. “This is devastating for us because since we have been staying in this community, this strange occurrence has never happened, he said. However, Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, through the Special Adviser on Agriculture and Food Security, Biodun Ajisefini, commiserated with the Fulanis in Iba over the incident. Ajisefini, who paid solidarity visit to the scene and community, commended the people of Iba on the exemplary way they had coexisted peacefully with the cattle traders of Fulani extraction in the community. “We are indeed sad about the unfortunate incident. Lightning is a natural phenomenon that we have no power or control over. The traders who suffered this loss are part of us, not strangers. They have lived here for decades and I commend them for their exemplary contributions to peace in Iba community. “I want to assure them of my support and indeed government’s support at a time like this.” People had been asking questions as to why thunder struck to death cows and sheep belonging to a particular person. By the time our reporter visited the scene, the owner of the affected cows and sheep and some other relations were said to have relocated to another community. Some Yoruba elders who did not want their names in print, argued that in as much as they did not want to apportion blames for the cause of the thunder, the owner of the cows and sheep must have committed certain crime to someone who might have invoked the god of thunder for justice. According to them, “it is very strange for thunder to strike an innocent person or property.” Oyelade said he would not apportion blame over the incident, but added that the occurrence was strange to the people of the community, emphasising that the people of Iba had never experienced such occurrence in the history of the town. He explained that both the Yoruba natives and Fulani had been living together peacefully without anyone fighting against another, saying he could not say how and why the tragedy occurred. Oyelade also denied the insinuation that the Fulanis had relocated from the town for fear of repeated occurrence, adding that the community had appealed to them, and they all accepted the plea in good faith. He explained that no sacrifice was performed before burying the cows and sheep, “but, the only warning we gave them was that no one must take part of the meat for food because of the circumstances surrounding their death.” He, however, appealed to Osun State government to come to the aid of the Fulanis whose livestock was affected by the thunder storm so that they could come back into the business.