Gombe – Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has promised to construct at least 100 kilometers of roads in each of the eleven Local Government Areas of the State even as he flagged off a 15 – kilometer – Sambo-Daji-Pindikola, Gwaram-Garin Wada road in Akko Local Government Area. He said his administration is poised to strategically construct no fewer than 100 kilometers of roads in all the eleven Local Government Areas of the State to address some of the needs of the rural populace in the State. According to him, “this is part of fulfilling my campaign promises to provide quality infrastructure that will last for years. We are also using indigenous contractors so that our people will be empowered”. He called on the people to support the administration by taking good care of the projects that are meant to serve them. Earlier, the Commissioner for Works and Transport, Engineer Abubakar Bappa, said the project which has been awarded to a reputable construction company, Grow Scope Nigeria Limited, is expected to complete the work within 18 months. The Governor also used the opportunity to inspect facilities at the Government Girls Science Secondary School Kumo, Akko LGA where he planted a tree as well as promised to close the gap of infrastructural deficit in public schools by providing more amenities. The principal of the school, Hajiya Gimbiya Samaila, told the Governor that the capacity of the school, established over eight years ago to accommodate only 500 students, has been grossly overstretched as it now accommodates 1,800 students with only 28 teachers. Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has promised to construct at least 100 kilometers of roads in each of the eleven Local Government Areas of the State. The Governor made the pledge at the flagging off of 15 kilometers Sambo-Daji-Pindikola, Gwaram-Garin Wada road in Akko LGA of the State. He said his administration is poised to strategically construct no fewer than 100 kilometers of roads in all the eleven Local Government Areas of the State to address some of the needs of the rural populace in the State. According to him, “this is part of fulfilling my campaign promises to provide the quality infrastructure that will last for years. We are also using indigenous contractors so that our people will be empowered”. He called on the people to support the administration by taking good care of the projects that are meant to serve them. Earlier, the Commissioner for Works and Transport, Engineer Abubakar Bappa, said the project which has been awarded to a reputable construction company, Grow Scope Nigeria Limited, is expected to complete the work within 18 months. The Governor also used the opportunity to inspect facilities at the Government Girls Science Secondary School Kumo, Akko LGA where he planted a tree as well as promised to close the gap of infrastructural deficit in public schools by providing more amenities. Principal of the school, Hajiya Gimbiya Samaila, told the Governor that the capacity of the school, established over eight years ago to accommodate only 500 students, has been grossly overstretched as it now accommodates 1,800 students with only 28 teachers.