The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation(NNPC),yesterday said it recorded a total of 45,347 pipeline breaks on its downstream pipeline network across the country between 2001 and half year 2019. Mallam Mele Kyari, its group managing director, who disclosed this in Abuja at the inaugural Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) Policy Dialogue,said oil theft had remained a challenge in the Industry despite some strong interventions in the past.Kyari said that for the Nigerian economy to prosper, NNPC and other oil companies must be able to operate efficiently and profitably. “Unfortunately, the combination of crude oil theft, illegal refining and pipeline vandalism, has become a major threat to Nigeria in meeting its revenue projections in recent time,” he said. Mallam Kyari however averred that the gradual reduction in incidences would be sustained through improved collaboration, implementation of Global Memoranda of Understanding (GMoUs), and deployment of appropriate technologies, among other measures, a release by NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Samson Makoji has said. Mallam Kyari who was represented at the event by the NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Upstream, Mr. Roland Ewubare, listed other measures to curb the menace to include: a security architecture with single accountability for national critical infrastructure; Industry and regulatory commitment to transparent crude oil and products accounting; realistic expectation by host communities; and emplacement of sustainable social investment mechanism. He emphasized the need to inculcate shared values of integrity and transparency across every level of the governance structure for pipeline security, policy refill and enforcement of legal actions on economic saboteurs. He harped on the need to prioritize and instil in the nation’s teeming youth a sense of patriotism and national orientation. In his presentation, Edo State Governor and Chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC) Ad Hoc Committee on Crude Oil Theft, Prevention and Control, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, stressed the need to institute a proper governance structure for pipeline security in the Industry.