Prince Tony Momoh, a former Minister of Information is one of the national leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on the controversy trailing the re-arrest of Omoyele Sowore, Edo political crisis and other issues. Excerpts: What is your take on the invasion of the courtroom by DSS officials to arrest Sowore? There is a separation of power among the legislative, executive and the judiciary. One thing that they do is the recognition one of the other of their rights to their internal ordering; that is the way they order their affairs internally. In other words, the National Assembly which is responsible for lawmaking has its internal arrangement and makes their own rules and there is no infringement of those rules by either the executive or the judiciary arms of government. When people say they have some sort of privilege where they don’t interfere, it means the judge, the lawyers and litigants have protection in the court, nobody can interfere with the privilege that is associated with protection of the court when they have proceedings. In the National Assembly, the lawmakers also have a privilege and they are protected. You cannot go the National Assembly and arrest anybody there. They are so protected that if anybody makes a statement that is defamatory, they will say go and make the statement outside the court because the protection is not there when they are outside the parliament. It is the same thing with the court. So, in the case of DSS officials storming the courtroom to arrest Sowore, I don’t believe it happened. I heard the judge was sitting when the commotion happened and she had to scamper for safety. But if truly it happened, then it is condemnable in the strongest of terms. It is absurd that a security agency will move into the courtroom where a judge was seated and try to forcefully arrest someone. It can never happen. If it happens, then those involved be it DSS, Police or any other security agencies involved have committed a treasonable offence by invading a protection that the court has. Whoever did that should be prosecuted. You think all these security agencies don’t know their limits? They will wait for you outside the court if they want to arrest you, not in the courtroom. If actually it happened, then it is unforgivable, unpardonable and must be visited with very serious consequences. What do you think is the way out, don’t you think it is high time the Federal Government listens to the voice of reason and release him? It is not about my opinion. The law must take its course and the decision to prosecute or not is a political decision. For instance, if the government feels there is a case that he must answer, they will prosecute him but it is the court that will decide whether he is guilty or not. It is always a political decision. There is freedom of expression without interference but there is a limit to that freedom. If someone says ‘revolution’, he must face the consequences. The fact is, if anybody calls for a revolution, we will look at the content of that call. What comes to mind is the lecture which was delivered during the colonial days in 1948 at Tom Jones hall in Lagos Island. The title of that lecture was ‘ A Call To Revolution’. It was delivered by Osita Aguna. Another key figure at the lecture was Raji Abdallah from Kano. As editor of SPEAR magazine, I published a document by Abdallah on that event in Lagos and I said that the conclusion will be given by Aguna . At that period, Aguna was in the war front during the civil war . The civil war ended in January 1970. A month after the war ended, I was in the Eastern region to see Aguna and he gave me details of that ‘Call To Revolution’. Nnamdi Azikiwe was to be the chairman of the lecture but because he knew the implication, he refused to chair it. However, Anthony Enahoro, a young, vibrant editor who had just come out of prison accepted the offer to chair the occasion and he was sent back to prison. Everybody who had a copy of the lecture was sent to jail. Most of the people who went to jail were members of the Zikist movement. They already knew the implication of what they were going to do so they were practising how to cope with jail conditions six months before the lecture. Why I am I saying this? Words are pregnant. Freedom of expression is guaranteed. But when you say ‘revolution’, you are not joking anymore. And any government that is sensible should stand up and confront those who want a revolution. There is a roadmap in Nigeria and that is the constitution of the Federal Republic President Buhari recently appealed to APC not to allow APC collapse after his tenure. Do you also nurse that fear? APC will not collapse even if Buhari’s tenure ends. APC is an amalgamation of parties. ACN, ANPP, CPC dissolved themselves and then formed the APC as a political association. I was the national chairman of CPC, Bisi Akande was national chairman of ACN and Ogbonnaya Onu was chairman of ANPP, after the dissolution of our parties, we all went to our polling units to register as members of APC . The millions of members of these three parties also register as members of APC. So, if anybody is saying APC will collapse and the members will go back to their former parties, it is not true because there are no old parties to go to. Buhari came with 12 million votes in 2003 and had many other votes in the 2007, 2011 and 2015 presidential elections. A lot of people believe that once he leaves, these huge votes will no longer be there for APC but that is not true. If Buhari’s tenure ends in 2023, it will not stop his membership of the party. He will still remain a father of APC and he will ensure that his supporters remain in the party. APC is also structured at the polling unit, ward, local and state levels all over the country. We are a political party and not a rally like the PDP. So, I don’t believe the party will collapse after Buhari completes his tenure as President. How best do you think the lingering crisis between APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Edo state governor, Godwin Obaseki can be resolved? APC had a lot of problems of organisation and discipline and Oshiomhole came in and he has tried his best to bring back the indiscipline that was missing. Some people think he may be too strict but unfortunately, all these issues will be resolved. It is unfortunate that the PDP is collapsing when they should sit down, organise themselves so they can be a threat to APC. That will make the APC to sit up and work harder for the benefit of Nigerians. But there is no threat to APC so far. Oshiomhole is the national chairman of APC. In states where we have a governor, the head of the party or chief executive officer of the party in the state is the governor. That is the structure of APC. So, I don’t think Oshiomhole and Governor Obaseki are at loggerheads. Obaseki is the chief executive officer of the party in Edo state according to our structure. He organizes the party, funds the party and so on. I believe Oshiomhole is not claiming to be the party leader or chairman of APC in Edo state, because he is not. As national chairman, he has his hands full at the national level so what will he be doing in Edo state? He has no business in the organisation of the party in Edo state. I know some people who are trying to cause crisis in Edo state are doing so in the name of Oshiomhole but I don’t think Oshiomhole can be advised to champion anybody’s cause in Edo state because he has so many things to do at the national level.