The Federal government has re-emphasised its commitment to higher economic growth and development which can only be attained through increased productivity. Dr. Chris Ngige, the Minister, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, disclosed this at the observance of the 18th National Productivity Day and Conferment of National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) Award in Abuja. According to the Minister, it is the avowed commitment of the administration to entrench a new socio-economic order that will propel the nation to the part of Sustainable Development Growth. Ngige said that the National Productivity day and conferment of National Productivity order of merit award is one of the flagship programmes of the government designed to institutionalise productivity consciousness and excellence in service among workers and organizations by rewarding innovation, creativity and hard work among the citizenry. The Minister informed dignitaries which included the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, who represented the President, that since inception of the award in 1991, a total of 333 individuals and 84 organizations have benefited from the award and that today, 25 individuals and seven organizations have proved themselves worthy of the award. He told the awardees that, they have been chosen based on their remarkable performance in their various fields of human endeavour and requested them to use the award as a stepping stone to win more laurels in the service of the nation and mankind. In a speech read on his behalf by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, the President says the occasion practically demonstrates the commitment of the government to the promotion of the ideals of a productive nation given the significant role of productivity in wealth creation, employment generation, social programs and improved standard of living of the people. He, therefore, commended the Minister, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Sen. Dr. Ngige and the Hon Minister of State, Festus Keyamo, SAN, and the management of the National Productivity Center for a job well done, while urging them to sustain the transparency, thoroughness and integrity of the award. The Awardees were listed under three categories: Individuals, Special, and Organization. The awardees under the Individual Category are as follows: Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, Chief Richard Onwuka Egbule, FNIM; Deputy Corps Marshal Ojeme I. Ewhrudjakpor, Dr Aishatu Abubakar, Prof. Adesola Olatunde Adepoju, Hajia Vivian Idama, Barr. Georgina Ekeoma Ehuriah, MON, Prof. Hussaini Doko Ibrahim, Abubakar Mamu, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd), Engr Ahmed Umar Farouk, Prof. Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun, SAN, Prof. Benjamin Ozumba, Chief Nabia Ahmed Saleh, Lawal Aliyu, Shuaibu Adamu, Al-Hassan Saleh Yakmut, Comrade Bobboi Kaigama, Leonard Nnamdi Ekeh, Hajia Muheeba Dankaka, John Momoh and Sam Omatseye. The Special Category has Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Dr Oba Otudeko and Mr Tony Elumelu, while the Organizations Category includes Casers Group, Vintage Farms and Products, Dufil Prima Foods Plc, Dozzy Oil and Gas, Krisoral Group, Kpakpando Foundation for People with Disabilities, and Reynold Construction Company (RCC).