Benin – The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has invested N69bn into Edo State Oil Palm Programme (ESOPP), an initiative of the Godwin Obaseki-led administration to rejuvenate the sector for global competitiveness.
Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the apex bank’s governor at the launch of the programme in Benin City, said Edo with Nigeria’s largest oil palm plantation, was the best place to invest, if the country must revive its oil palm industry.
Emefiele, who commended Obaseki’s commitment to developing the country’s oil palm sector, disclosed that the CBN would make available N69bn funding facility required for the ESOPP.
He said that the state made available 120,000 hectares of land for the project, and that the state had already benefited over 80 per cent from the apex bank’s N30bn agriculture intervention for states.
“I want to thank Governor Godwin Obaseki for showing the required commitment and leadership in developing the oil palm sector in Nigeria. When we contemplated on reviving the oil palm sector in Nigeria, he was the only one that came out aggressively from the South-South and South-East governors and made available 120,000 hectares of land for this project.
“Edo State has the largest oil palm plantation in Nigeria and in reviving the oil palm industry in Nigeria Edo State is the best place to start. The CBN has disbursed about N30 billion naira to entrepreneurs in the oil sector in the last one year, and out of that amount, about N25 billion has been channeled to support companies into oil palm plantation in Edo State.
The CBN governor also warned that the bank would deal ruthlessly with smugglers of palm oil in the country if they failed to stop their illegal operations.
Besides, Governor Obaseki said the project was in line with his administration’s agenda to harness the state’s rich human and natural endowments to achieve economic growth and well-being of Edo people.
He maintained that his government was committed to diversify the state’s economy, achieving economic prosperity, creating jobs and improving the lives of the people.
“The focus on the oil palm sector alone can stimulate and drive the economy of any state as it has done to Malaysia and Indonesia. This programme will enable us move from complaining and talking about what we have lost to concrete action towards regaining what has been lost.
“Ours is to remove the critical risk in the oil palm sector by solving the biggest hindrances to plantation farm in Nigeria and making land available to farmers,” he said.
He said his administration has provided about 120,000 hectares of land for oil palm development in the state.
“Successful implementation of the programme will create over 600,000 more jobs as well as 25,000 hectares of forest cover. This programme will cost us about $600m, which is approximately N200bn. The money is there globally as money is not out of reach with investors on ground,” he added. The governor said he was setting up the Edo State Oil Palm Programme implementation office, noting that consultants, surveyors, community relations experts would be trained to review and ensure guidelines are strictly followed.
Earlier, Prince Joe Okojie, Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Agriculture, Forestry and Food Security Programme, said the 120,000 hectares of land for the programme was made available by the four Local government areas in the state.