LAGOS – The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has unveiled a plan to classify the Biometric Verification Number (BVN) to enhance the financial inclusion drive in the country, just as it called on deposit money banks (DMBs) to invest more on cyber security. CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, disclosed this on Saturda in Ogere, Ogun State while briefing the media at the end of the 11th Bankers Committee Retreat. Emefiele, who was in the company of two of the deputy governors and managing directors of commercial banks in the country, said the idea was to ensure that many people are brought under the banking umbrella. He said BVN will now be classified as BVN Premium and BVN lite. His words: “Know your customer (KYC) strategy of the banks is part of why we are migrating into the BVN Lite. However, there are people who are currently financially excluded, like people in our rural communities that carry phones but not having financial services. “With the collaboration of National Communication Commission (NCC), we are putting in place this BVN arrangement to allow them conduct minimal financial services. It should be possible for us to migrate these people into the BVN Lite arrangement where they can conduct minimal financial services, not just banking services, but minimal services like insurance and other things you want to conduct in terms of finance whether e-payment or anything you can do with the aid of your phone. “As we bring them into the financial system, what it will do is that it will help to increase our rate of financial inclusion and reduce exclusion rate.” Reacting, Cyril Ampka, an Abuja-based financial analyst, said the move by the CBN and the Bankers Committee will go a long way at addressing financial limitations among people who live in rural areas without access to banking services. “The move is one that should be commended. Though, I am not a fan of CBN, but this is a good one. It will give people in the rural areas access to loans and other banking services, while it will also be beneficial to small holder farmers,” Ampka said. An ex-banker and former Executive Director of Mainstreet Bank, Ano Anyanwu, said many people have been waiting for a decision like this for a long time and that it will boost the financial inclusion drive. His words, “The target of 20 per cent financial inclusion by the end of 2020 is getting close to reality with this move. People in remote areas of the country will now have the prerequisite identification requirement needed to take some financial decisions.” On plans to combat cyber risk, Emefiele said banks have so far been able to have a firm grip of the risk associated with their business, whether it is credit risk or operational risks, just to be very direct. He said, “Cyber risk, which today is growing in different parts of the world, the banks, the CBN, and the government and everybody need to do something about it. The banks were advised to do more in their management and control of cyber risks.” Banks were also advised to invest more money in tools, whether soft or hardware, that will help them in containing cyber risks in their operational environment. “But, of course, on the part of the CBN, we have all along been issuing different guidelines and frameworks on how the banks can combat and how the industry and the country can combat the incidence of cyber-attacks, which in any case, will continue; but, we just need to prepare and that when they strike, we are able to withstand the shock and we are able to discover it early enough for the banks not to lose money or for depositors funds not to be lost by a bank. “Those are the issues around, but again, on our part in CBN, we are looking at investing in security operation centre that will act as a gateway for banks. It’s like you have a baby, I know you will do everything to protect the baby. Unfortunately, we are all naked today as a result of internet and cyber risk and we all have to do everything to protect ourselves.” On the proposed redevelopment of the National Arts Theatre Lagos, Emefiele said the decision of the Bankers Committee to turn around the moribund national edifice, which will start in January 2020 and gulp about N25 billion, was not to take it over and make staff jobless. “What the Bankers Committee is doing is to help revive a dead asset or an asset that is dying that is currently not well maintained, that is not able to generate its potential earnings and revenue as a result of paucity of funds and good maintenance. “We are not in the business of managing those kinds of facilities. There is no attempt to sidestep staff of the national theatre. However, we will work with them and make sure that we put in place a maintenance culture and arrangement that will give that National Theatre and the hub around it the necessary attention so that it would be a tourist attraction not only to Nigerians but to the world. “We are just trying to redevelop the National Theatre and build around it, these four hubs – IT, fashion, music and Nollywood – that would help create economic activities around the National Art Theatre, and then present it as an opportunity to create jobs for people, particularly our youths. “We must create jobs for our youths. A larger percentage of our people are youths and if they are jobless, how can they live a life? These people have certain innate skills endowed by God What we are just trying to say is for them to unleash these skills, through the hubs,” he said.