Cristiano Ronaldo’s girlfriend has taken to Instagram to comment on her partner’s placement in the 2019 Ballon d’Or rankings. Five-time winner Ronaldo finished in third place this year, 206 points behind runner up Virgil van Dijk and 210 behind rival Lionel Messi, who moves ahead of him on six Ballon d’Or, Sport Bible reports. Ronaldo was in Milan instead of Paris to collect his Serie A MVP award but there’s no doubt he will be gutted to have come third. Still, his other half, Georgina Rodriguez, posted a message of support to him. Copy li   Incomparable, Imparable, valiente, inconformista. Existen las cifras y los títulos, de todo ello eres protagonista con los mejores resultados, como: la Liga de las Naciones, la Copa de Italia, el Campeonato de la Serie A, Mejor Jugador de la Serie A, entre otros. Pero afortunadamente ni los premios ni los títulos únicamente hablan por ti, aunque los tengas a montones. Lo que mejor habla de ti eres tú mismo, tu pasión, tu hambre de superación, tu compañerismo, porque eres inspiración del Fútbol y del Deporte para millones y millones de personas. No te asustan los retos, sales de tu zona de confort y sigues superándote y mostrando al mundo cómo es ser el número 1. Te amo @cristiano #legend #cr7 #cristianoronaldo A post shared by  Georgina Rodríguez (@georginagio) on Dec 3, 2019 at 5:00am PST Roughly translated into English, the post reads: “Incomparable, unstoppable, brave and non-conformist. There are the stats and the titles and you’re the star with the best results in them, with a UEFA Nations League, a Coppa Italia, a Serie A title and the Serie A best player award. “But it’s not just the prizes or the titles that speak for you, even though you have so many. “What says the most about you is your passion, your desire to overcome and your teamwork. “You’re an inspiration in football and sport for millions and millions of people. “You’re not scared of challenges and you go out of your comfort zone, surpassing yourself continually and showing the world how to be number one. “I love you.” Easily the most pleasant response from a member of the Ronaldo clan. The 34-year old’s sister Katia Aveiro laid into Van Dijk after he made a joke about Ronaldo not being a rival. In a post on Instagram, she referenced the former Southampton defender not yet winning the Premier League as well as making a point of reminding him her brother beat his Netherlands side in the Nations League final. 