The re-arrest of Omoyele Sowore, former presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections and convener of the RevolutionNow movement by officers of the Department of State Services (DSS) shortly after his release has once again cast a doubt on the sincerity of the Muhammadu Buhari administration’s commitment to the respect to the rule of law. For an administration that has a penchant for flagrant disregard for court orders, the attempt by the DSS officials to arrest Sowore right inside the court premises did not to Nigerians as a surprise. However, what shocked many was the fracas that ensued when DSS officials, right in the sanctity of the courtroom attempted to whisk Sowore away, a move that was vehemently resisted by his supporters. The move has continued to generate widespread condemnation amongst Nigerians and the international community, with many arguing that the country is gradually drifting into the dark days of military junta . Though the DSS has issued a statement in which it described itself as a law-abiding agency and denied attempting to arrest Sowore in the courtroom, the concern of Nigerians is why re-arrest him just few hours after breathing air of freedom after months in DSS custody? Dr. Olapade Agoro, a former Presidential Candidate of National Action Council, at the weekend said well-meaning Nigerians especially Yoruba leaders must quickly intervene in Sowore’s issue before regrets sets in. Speaking further, he maintained that Yoruba leaders and well-meaning Nigerians must toy the line of peace and allow a peaceful way out of the impasse. Agoro who stressed that the memory of late Chief Moshood Kasimawo Olawale Abiola (MKO) must be kept in mind in handling a similar case of this nature that the best solution to an impasse of this type is peaceful dialogue declared that urgent steps must be taken before regret set in over the matter. The statement read in part, ” it becomes pertinent for one to suggest to both warring parties of Omoyele Sowore and DSS to please toy the line of peace and allow a peaceful way out of the imbroglio confronting the peace of this country. ” The reality of this issue must be found in the fact that the government can never be a looser in a matter of this sort. “The memory of our highly beloved late Chief M.K.O Abiola must be kept in our minds that the best solution to an impasse of this type is peaceful dialogue. “This is calling on all well-meaning leaders of thought of this country and particularly the Yoruba kingdom to please quickly wade into the matter before regrets set in. Also speaking, the Special Adviser on Strategy and Political Matters to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state , Honourable Babatunde Oduyoye described the re-arrest of Sowore as an attack on democracy and the sanctity of the judiciary. Oduyoye maintained that the attack on Sowore inside the courtroom, which reportedly led to a judge scampering for safety, was the peak of several threats to democracy under the All Progressives Congress (APC) government. The former Minority Whip of the House of Representatives, flayed the DSS officials for allowing their overzealousness to get the best of them, noting that attempt to arrest Sowore inside the courtroom was an affront on democratic ideals. He maintained that threats to democracy and democratic ideals had been coming in different guise under the APC government, making reference to APC members, including a serving Senator in Oyo State, had been boasting about how the Supreme Court would hand over Oyo State, which they obviously did not win, to them. Oduyoye called on the Presidency to institute a probe into the incident involving Sowore in other clear itself of culpability in the matter, while also charging it should call its agencies and members of the APC to order so as not to overheat the polity and cause crisis in the country. He said that failure to rein in the overzealous tendencies would call into question the democratic credentials of President Muhammadu Buhari. Oduyoye said: “The attacks on the Abuja courtroom under the guise of trying to rearrest Omoyele Sowore, to say the least, is an affront on democracy and the judiciary. “On a daily basis, democracy is being threatened under the leadership of the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government with agencies of the Presidency acting with unbridled impunity. We saw a similar invasion of the National Assembly in 2018. We have watched the Federal Government blatantly disregard court orders. But this attack on Sowore inside a courtroom is at the peak of the audacious impunities being perpetrated in our democracy. “The attacks on Sowore under the pretext of his being rearrested is no doubt an attack on democracy. It leaves a bad taste in the mouth that the Department of State Security (DSS) could carry out such impunity with audacity in a democratic setup. “Of a truth, there is no time in history than now that democracy has been raped and threatened. Part of those threats to democracy is going on in Oyo State where some members of the APC, including a serving Senator, have been twisting the judgment of the Court of Appeal on the March 9, 2019 governorship election in the State and boasting that the Supreme Court would hand the APC victory on the pending matter. “The Presidency must, as a matter of urgency probe the activities of the DSS, while also calling its agencies and members of the APC to order on their undemocratic conducts. “I also think it is high time all men of reason and advocates of democratic governance across the world rose up to condemn these negative developments.”