ABUJA – Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has adjourned till January 14, 2020, a suit filed by Senator Fidelis Okoro against the Police Service Commission, the Inspector General of Police, the Nigerian Police Force and ASP Mohammed Yusuf. Justice Ekwo adjourned the case on Thursday following the absence of the defendants and their lawyers in court. In the enforcement of fundamental rights suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1165/2019, Okoro alleged that ASP Yusuf murdered his son, Chukwuemeka, 31, five years ago in Durumi area of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. By the suit filed through his counsel, J. K Mbanefo Ikwegbue, the plaintiff is demanding for award of N3 billion in compensation and damages for the unlawful murder. The former lawmaker, who represented Enugu North between 1999 and 2007, is also praying for an order of court directing the IGP and the Nigerian Police to immediately arraign Yusuf before a court of competent jurisdiction for offence of murder. The plaintiff, in his statement of claim, averred that, “On August 11, 2014, the deceased, Mr. John Chukwuemeka Okoro, was in the company of his friend Sunny Black eating at a restaurant in Durumi area of Abuja. “A police patrol team from Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) office in Abuja, which came to Durumi in search of other alleged suspects, accosted the late John Okoro and his friend, Mr. Black. “In the confusion that ensued, the police man shot John Okoro, who was having no arms first in the leg. Having maimed him instead of taking him alive for interrogation, irrespective of the fact that he was pleading his innocence, the policeman by name Mohammed Yusuf shot him in the chest as a result of which John died. “First he was taken to SARS Office in Abuja and in their continuous move to conceal the information about what had happened, took his lifeless body to Gwagwalada Teaching Hospital in Abuja. “The police told the mortuary attendant that it was a case of hit and run.” He further noted that, being aggrieved by the gruesome murder of his son, he (Senator Okoro) petitioned the then Inspector General of Police and the FCT Police Command over the extra judicial killing of his son.