ASABA – Senator Godiya Akwashiki, Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, apparently stirred the hornet’s nest on Thursday, when she said the Senate would not have anything to do with the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Caretaker Committee because it was not a legal entity. While briefing newsmen in Abuja, Akwashiki said the Senate was waiting for President Muhammadu Buhari to inaugurate the newly confirmed members of the NDDC board. “There is no confusion in the NDDC. Mr. President sent his nominees who are people of impeccable character to the Senate for confirmation to occupy offices in the commission. “We have done justice and the needful to his nominees. It is not our responsibility to inaugurate nominees. There is no confusion in the NDDC. In a short while, the President will inaugurate the nominees. “In case the caretaker committee refuses to vacate office, the Senate President has said that the Senate Committee on Niger Delta should deal with only the nominees confirmed by the Senate.” The Senate had on November 5 confirmed the nomination of 15 persons for the appointment on board of the NDDC, out of the 16 names nominated by President Buhari. The upper chamber had also rejected the nomination of Dr Joy Nunieh, nominee for Rivers, following her absence at the screening conducted by the Senate Committee on Niger Delta. Nunieh currently serves on the Interim Management Committee overseeing activities of NDDC. The nominees as confirmed by the Senate are: Dr. Pius Odubu (Edo), Chairman; Bernard Okumagba (Delta), Managing Director; Engr. Otobong Ndem (Akwa-Ibom), Executive Director (Projects); Maxwell Oko (Bayelsa), Executive Director, Finance and Admin; Jones Erue (Delta), and Chief Victor Ekhator (Edo). Others are: Nwogu N. Nwogu (Abia), Theordore Allison (Bayelsa), Victor Antai (Akwa-Ibom), Maurice Effiwatt (Cross River), Olugbenga Edema (Ondo), Hon. Uchegbu Chidiebere Kyrian (Imo), Aisha Murtala Muhammed (Kano), Shuaibu Ardo Zubairu (Adamawa), and Ambassador Abdullahi Bage (Nasarawa). The upper chamber however rejected the nomination of Nunieh, as nominee representing Rivers State on the board. Chairman, Senate Committee on NDDC, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, in his presentation of the committee’s report, explained that the committee sent an invitation to the nominee twice to attend the screening exercise. The lawmaker, however, told his colleagues that the nominee on both occasions refused to appear before the panel for screening. Nwaoboshi drew the attention of the upper chamber to the three-man Interim Management Committee to oversee the affairs of the NDDC. According to him, the nominee, Dr. Joy Yimebe Nunieh is Acting Managing Director of the Interim Committee. The committee has Dr. Cairo Ojougboh as Acting Executive Director, Projects, and Chief Ibanga Bassey Etang as the Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration. The upper chamber, in a Committee of the Whole, thereafter unanimously rejected the nomination of Nunieh as nominee representing Rivers State over her refusal to appear before the NDDC panel for screening. In his remarks, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, while speaking on the existence of the interim committee to oversee the NDDC, said, “I think there’s no ambiguity in this matter. Mr. President sent to the Senate his request for us to confirm his nominees. “As soon as they (nominees) are confirmed, I’m sure any other structure that exists now is vitiated. I don’t think we have anything to worry about, because this is something that is clearly established by the law.” Who Will Defend NDDC 2020 Budget? To complicate the already controversial issue, the Senate on Tuesday received a formal request from President Muhammadu Buhari for the consideration and passage of the 2019/2020 budget estimates for the NDDC. The request was contained in a letter addressed to the President of the Senate, Lawan, and read on the floor during plenary. The letter reads: “Pursuant to Section 18(1) of the Nigerian Delta Development Commission Establishment Act, I forward herewith 2019/2020 budget estimates of the Niger Delta Development Commission for the kind consideration and passage by the Senate. “While hoping that the Senate will consider this request in the usual expeditious manner, please accept, Mr. President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Immediately after the letter was read, the Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, coming under Order 43 of the Senate Standing Rules, drew the attention of his colleagues to the fact that members of the NDDC board duly confirmed by the Senate were yet to resume official duty. According to him, the failure of the executive to swear-in members of the board duly confirmed by the Senate sequel to a request from President Buhari, may threaten early consideration and quick passage of the 2019/2020 budget of the NDDC. He added that the Interim Committee of the NDDC led by Joy Nunieh is an “illegal contraption” that lacks the backing of law to defend the commission’s budget. He said, “Having regard to the fact that this Senate has confirmed members of the board of the NDDC and they are yet to resume office. “I fear that we may run into a problem of delayed budget again since nobody will come to defend this budget. “This Senate, having confirmed the board of the NDDC will not countenance any illegal contraption coming to represent NDDC. “To prevent a late budget for NDDC that is helping Nigeria on revenue and development of the region, it will be better for us to prevent this issue from coming.” Lawan, who sustained Abaribe’s point of order in his ruling said, “We are receiving the budget of the NDDC for the year 2020 at the right time. “This is the first time ever, and this is a good sign that we are operating on the same frequency with the executive arm of government; that we are in a hurry to deal with matters of the budget because it is an issue that will bring about development in the country.” “As far as we are concerned, this Senate knows that we have confirmed the request of Mr. President on the board membership of the NDDC, and we have communicated that. “The next logical thing to do by law is for the appointments of the members of the board to take immediate effect. “I believe that the executive arm of government will attend to that quickly so that we have the right people to defend the appropriation request of Mr. President”, Lawan said. Stakeholders Kick Against Interim Management Committee The Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) had earlier told the National Assembly to disregard any budget approval request from the NDDC, if submitted by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) inaugurated by Minister of Niger Delta, Chief Godswill Akpabio. The group in a statement signed by its factional president, Eric Omare, said that under Section 18 of the NDDC Act of 2000, only the substantive board of the NDDC could submit a budget to the National Assembly for consideration. Section 18 of the NDDC Establishment Act, Number 6 of 2000 (as amended), states that, “the board shall not later than 30th September in each year, submit to the National Assembly, through the President/Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces an estimate of the expenditure and income of the commission for the next succeeding year for approval.” According to Omare, the National Assembly has a duty to defend the law, maintaining that the problem with NDDC since its inception is non-adherence to the law establishing it. “Instead of strictly complying with the law establishing NDDC, emphasis is placed on political patronage instead of using the NDDC as a platform to develop the Niger Delta region,” he lamented. The IYC leader regretted that despite the Senate’s confirmation of a substantive board for NDDC, the government has not deemed it fit to inaugurate the board. “Given the myriad problems in the region, we had looked forward to the inauguration of the board, knowing that it will bring a level of sanity and stability to the commission. “Unfortunately and to our surprise, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Akpabio, set up an illegal Interim Management Committee that is not contemplated by the NDDC Act. There is absolutely no reason in the present circumstance for an IMC because President Muhammadu Buhari has already exercised his powers under Section 2 of the NDDC Act to nominate members of the substantive board to the National Assembly and the Senate has confirmed members of the substantive board.” Omare stated that what ought to have happened was for the substantive board to take over the leadership of the commission immediately, but regretted that more than two weeks after the clearance, “we still have a contraption called an interim management committee presiding over the NDDC in flagrant violation of the law establishing the NDDC.” Similarly, the Host Communities of Nigeria (HOSCON) has said the Interim Management Committee currently in place in the NDDC is not known to the Act that established the Commission in year 2000, saying the issue of 10 months tenure to such is an illegal entity According to Okakuro Monday Whiskey, National Director of Media and Publicity of HOSCOM, the IMC cannot and will never stand the test of time, “because you cannot build something on nothing.” The veteran journalist and Niger Delta-based public affairs commentator said, “if the President of the country, in his wisdom had transmitted a list of board members to the National Assembly and the Assembly in performing its statutory and constitutional roles had screened/confirmed such nominees, it is only the President, Commander in Chief who can do otherwise by either withdrawing any of the nominees and no government appointee can arrogate to himself such power as being able to set up a parallel body. “HOSCON is very pleased with the Nigerian Senate and the Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan when he declared during the confirmation that those nominated by President Muhammadu Buhari and screened by the Senate should resume immediately at the NDDC headquarters” A popular lawyer and rights activist, Barrister David Ekuetafia, has also appealed to President Buhari to inaugurate the new board of the NDDC following their successful screening by the Senate to douse the growing tension in the Niger Delta region. Ekuetafia equally urged the President to remove NDDC from the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, saying politicians were playing politics with the region’s fragile peace. He particularly condemned the setting up of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) by Akpabio, as he argued that the development runs foul of the Act establishing the commission. The activist declared the IMC illegal, noting that Akpabio, lacked the capacity to inaugurate any committee to pilot the affairs of the NDDC. Calling for the immediate sack of the IMC, he explained that the board members of the Commission have the same status as the minister, being that they are screened by the Senate and only the president, as stipulated in the NDDC Act 2000 in section 2 (1) (c), has the authority to appoint and inaugurate the Board. Emphasising that the power to make appointment to fill any vacancy in the Board exclusively rests with the president, the lawyer said, “The NDDC Act 2000 does not make any provision for the President, to delegate his power to control, supervise or direct the affairs of the Commission, to any Minister, individual or group of individuals whatsoever. “This position is clearly stated in Section 7(3) of the law as follows: ‘the Commission shall be subject to the direction, control or supervision in the performance of its functions under this Act by the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” He further stressed that the ministry only has liaising role with the agency to avoid duplication of projects, positing that like the North East Development Commission (NEDC), is under no ministry, the NDDC should not be an exception. “However, let it be clearly stated here that by the Act of the National Assembly which established the Niger Delta Development Commission, it makes no provisions for an interim management committee to be appointed and inaugurated by a mMinister. This is because each member of the board is of equal status with a Minister having also passed through the Senate screening and confirmation. “Therefore, let it be known and equally asserted here that by the enabling Act, no person is lawfully permitted to assume the role or perform the functions of the offices of the Managing Director, Executive Directors and other members of the Board of the NDDC without fulfilling the statutory requirements of screening and confirmation by the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. On the forensic audit, Ekuetafia pointed out that the Minister was “part of the alleged failure of the previous boards of the Commission sought to be investigated,” having been the state governor of Akwa Ibom and then, a Senator under the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) platform. He posited that it will be unconstitutional for him to oversee, by virtue of his heading the NDDC, the forensic audit. “Moreover, the law forbids the Minister of being a judge in his own cause as the planned forensic audit by the Federal Government, when put in place, its terms of reference would cover the periods of 2007 to 2015 when Akpabio was a member of the Niger Delta Development Advisory Committee created by section 11(1)(a) of NDDC Act 2000. “It is therefore legally and morally wrong for the Minister to constitute and inaugurate a committee to oversee the investigation of the past boards (2001 to 2019) of the Commission of which he played prominent roles as a sitting governor and a leader of the people’s Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom State. It was the PDP led Federal Government that constituted these Boards up to 2016. “It is therefore the expectation of every well meaning Nigerian for the President, as a matter of urgency, to call, the Minister of the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs to order.” “Mr. President should specifically direct him to stop arrogating to himself or usurping the statutory powers exclusive to the President under the NDDC Act 2000 by openly sacking the illegal interim management committee headed by Dr Joy Nunieh. “We call on Mr. President to formally inaugurate the Pius Odudu-led Board which the Senate has successfully screened and confirmed, to enable them assume the duties of their offices without further delay,” he declared. IPDI Differs The Ijaw People’s Development Initiative (IPDI) however took a different position, saying that the current two boards be dissolved and fresh one constituted in line with the NDDC Establishment Act. Comrade Ozobo Austin, its National President, said that the interim committee was set up with ulterior motives. “A simple question to ask is “if Akpabio does not have confidence in the substantive NDDC board to supervise the forensic audit, what makes him to believe that Joy Gbeneh Nunieh who is a Rivers State representative in the substantive NDDC board will not compromise being appointed as chairman of the interim Management committee?” He said they were aware that during President Goodluck Jonathan administration there was a forensic audit in NNPC and did not shut down NNPC activities and no interim management board was set up to oversee the audit. “Similar thing happened in Oando Plc, a forensic audit was carried out by Deloitte and Touche, which indicted that the oil firm of various scandals and infractions that led to its suspension by Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC. This was carried out without a shutdown of activities in Oando, and was not done by an interim Management committee” According to him, audit is normally carried out by government internal and external auditors, calling for the current two illegal boards; both alleged substantive and interim to be dissolved and fresh board in line with the NDDC establishment act be constituted. “ln same vein, we want the Presidency to take over supervision of  NDDC back from Niger Delta Ministry led by Godswill Akpabio, a power drunk Niger Delta Minister. We have lost confidence in him; we do not believe that he has the capacity to function as Niger Delta Minister, looking at the political diversity and ethnic complexity of the region. It is glaring that NDDC will die a natural death and its purpose of creation will be defeated if allowed to be watched over by Godswill Akpabio who is desperate to farm on it” he said. He however reiterated that it is the turn of Delta State to produce the current NDDC, Chairman and not Edo state. “The appointment of Dr Pius Odubu from Edo state as the substantive Chairman of the NDDC board contravenes the laws establishing the commission. The Act explicitly made it clear that the position of the Chairman should be rotated among NDDC member states on alphabetic order. “And according to the alphabetic order in the NDDC Act which has been the guiding principle of the commission since its creation, it is now the turn of alphabetic D, and alphabet D, stands for Delta State and not Edo state” “Obviously, by the analysis above it is clear that the appointment of an Edo man as the current NDDC Chairman is illegal as it violates the Act of the commission of year 2000, Volume 4” He said the appointment of a Benin man who does not produce a drop of oil in Edo State as chairman in NDDC board is unacceptable. “It is preferable to appoint Ijaws of Edo who produced the oil to the NDDC board and not Benin who does not produce a drop of oil. It is disguising, an injustice need to be corrected in immediate effect”. “Again, the Managing Director of the commission is to be rotated by production quantum and currently Bayelsa produces the highest quantum of oil and not Delta. It is also expected that the Managing Director position be zoned to Bayelsa State, and the Chairman position returned to Delta State. “It is a fact that, the NDDC substantive Board too is faulty. With the zoning of the chairmanship to Edo State which is a violation or contravention of the NDDC Establishment Act. We want it to be corrected as well but if the authorities concerned fail to correct it, we believe it will be corrected through various legal actions pending in the law court” “Similarly, it is Ijaw’s turn to produce the current Chairman of NDDC board, apart from acting capacity. Since the creation of the commission no Ijaw man in Delta State has been appointed as substantive chairman of NDDC board” “It is disgusting that the Uhrobo’s produced the nation’s Deputy Senate president, the Minister of State (Labour) and Managing Director an Urhobo and Edo project. It is unfair; Uhrobo’s are not the only tribe or oil producing ethnic nationality in Delta State. Senator Omo-Agege is turning a greedy politician, and this will affect him of his gubernatorial ambition in 2023 in Delta State”, he noted.