MAKURDI – The Chief Medical Director (CMD), Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH), Makurdi, Prof. Terlumun Swende, risks being sacked for allegedly throwing spanners in the works of modalities put in place for the payment of N74.5 million, being the welfare of member of the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU), BSUTH chapter. Although DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that there were other demands made by the union, the state government had agreed to pay the health workers N74.5 million of their welfare package. Demands by JOHESU that government needs to address include the payment of arrears of correction of imaging scientists and physiotherapists; promotion of staff to position of deputy directors; promotion of junior staff after every two years; stagnation of non-degree holding nurses on CONHESS 12; payment of teaching allowances for nurses and laboratory technicians, as well as payment of promotion arrears covering 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. DAILY INDEPENDENT further gathered that the axe is dangling over the head of the CMD over his alleged plans to frustrate the signing of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) that would lead to the payment of allowances of the health workers. It was also learnt that the antics deployed by the CMD had forced members of the union to embark on a strike action that lasted for three days (Friday, Saturday and Sunday last week), until the intervention of the Secretary to State Government (SSG), Tony Ijohor, on Monday. Following the intervention of the SSG, the union suspended the strike action and signed their portion of the MoU and resumed work to pave way for the payment of their entitlements. Independent reliably gathered that the state Governor, Samuel Ortom, who was out of the country at the time the health workers embarked on the strike, had earlier directed the SSG to appeal to the JOHESU leadership through the CMD to sign its part of the MoU, so he (Ortom) would sign his portion when he returns to the country. However, Independent gathered that instead of conveying the message to the leadership of the union, the CMD, Terlumun Swende, kept mute, thus compelling the workers to embark on the strike, which brought untold hardship on patients. Following the development, our sources said the SSG, Prof. Tony Ijohor, who was infuriated by the actions of the CMD, took Swende to the cleaners, for frustrating government efforts and may subsequently have conveyed the incident to Governor Ortom. The source further told DAILY INDEPENDENT that Governor Ortom had earlier registered misgivings with the CMD, who is his kinsman from Guma Local Government Area, for his leadership style at the hospital, which has led to the deteriorating state of the teaching hospital since Swende assumed office. He further stated that the CMD’s action may have embarrassed the state governor, a development which may lead to the eventual sack of the CMD, when the governor returns this week. Meanwhile, a leader of the union, who would not want his name in print for fear of being victimized, lamented that while the union made their demands before the Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) in the hospital, the government was being discriminatory in its actions, for paying the ARD their entitlements and abandoning them to their fate.