Bureau Chief Benin – Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and immediate past governor of Edo State, on Saturday, said he was not under house arrest by the security agencies as allegedly reported in some quarters.
He debunked the claim in his Okorotun Avenue residence in Benin City when Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu was presented to him by the National Vice Chairman, (South-South), Hillard Etta.
Oshiomhole said he chose not to attend the rally because he has decided to toe the path of peace.
“You will have tension when you find that local party members are fighting each other because the party membership, you can remain there as long as you obey the rules of the party.
“The turnover of a leadership, there is no limit of tenure. For example, for being a member of APC but there is limit for being chairman. There is limit for being governor but there is a limit of tenure for being president but there is no limit for being a member.
“So, once our members are united, I am comfortable but we will sustain the path of peace that was the only reason I opted not to attend the mega rally today. They have already planted a story today from the government house that I am under house arrest,” he said.
The national chairman of the party said he believes that God will always help him and that the party has come to stay for the interest of the people of the state.
“So, either way, they want to make me look like a he-goat. You know the proverbial he-goat, when the family child is sick in the traditional Nigerian society, you go and consult who ask you to go and sacrifice it to go and appease the gods so that the witches and wizards will not kill the child but on the other hand when a baby is born or they are celebrating birthday, they have get the he-goat to slaughter to celebrate.
“So either way, the he-goat is in trouble. God knows my heart and He will help me and He has been helping me we will sustain the governance of the state under the APC with Edo people as our principal and our ultimate employers. To them we are grateful,” he said.
Presenting pastor Ize-Iyamu to the National Chairman in his Okorotun Avenue residence, GRA, Benin City, the National Vice Chairman, South-South, Hillard Etta told Oshiomhole that Ize-Iyamu was not defecting to the APC but was only coming back to a house he helped to build some time ago.
According to him, “Ize-Iyamu is not a new face to APC. He is one of the leaders and landlord of APC in Nigeria. We have every reason to respect him and accord him such respect and honour because he is a big fish that should not swim in a pond or stream but in the Ocean.”