LAGOS – There were indications on Monday that South West governors, especially those elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), are not on the same page with Iba Gani Adams, the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, on finding a lasting solution to the insecurity challenges rocking the region. Daily Independent gathered that out of the six governors in the region, only Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, who is a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has shown some measure of support for the Aare Ona Kakanfo’s plans to rid the South West of banditry, kidnapping, and other vices. It would be recalled that earlier in September, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, and the governors of the South West states agreed to deploy cutting edge technology to combat crimes in the region. The IGP also agreed to partner with the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) to properly fight the rising insecurity in the zone and bring it to the lowest ebb with the support of the governors. The resolutions, which were reached at the South West geopolitical zone security summit held at the International Conference Centre of the University of Ibadan, are yet to achieve any meaningful results. The security conference followed public outcry after the gruesome murder of Mrs. Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti. Weeks after the resolution was made, our correspondent gathered that nothing had been done on the issue as the governors were reluctant to cooperate with the Aare Ona Kakanfo, who is to galvanise members of the OPC and other local security outfits in securing the region. Speaking with our correspondent, a credible source said the APC governors, which include Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos); Gboyega Oyetola (Osun); Dapo Abiodun (Ogun); Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), and Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) were not forthcoming on the arrangement owing to the disposition of an APC leader who is not comfortable with the IGP’s collaboration with Aare Adams. According to a source, “It’s true that the governors are not cooperating with the efforts of Iba Adams at all. The original intention was for the South West governors to meet with the Aare Ona Kakanfo, and that was why he (Adams) inaugurated the South West Security Group. The intention is to carry every other security outfits along with the OPC. “However, from what is on ground now, even with the inauguration of those groups, the governors have not given Aare Adams any support whatsoever, and that is why he has been unable to do anything. “If you recall, that was why Adams spoke out on the non-cooperation of the governors three weeks ago at one of the OPC outings in Ilorin. He wants the governors to show seriousness to the project as it is crucial to the sustenance and economic emancipation of the South West. “We understood they are making underground moves to gather some security outfits while neglecting the plans made by Aare Adams which the IGP is already aware of. “Aare Adams will be meeting the IGP very soon. With the meeting, they will be able to formalise what they intend doing because the IGP was the one that solicited Adams’ support to put an end to the criminality in the South West zone during the summit they had in Ibadan with all the governors in attendance. “The issue is political. A particular political leader in the South West, who is a leader of the APC, is not pleased with the collaboration between Adams and the IGP, and that is why the APC governors are also drawing back so as not to incur his wrath.”