P/HARCOURT – The flak generated by the surprised victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the November 16 governorship election appears to have died down in the public space. But, within the political circle in Bayelsa State, the battle has just begun. And the party is toddling on a bumpy path of possible implosion. Critical minds had observed that the hard handedness, over-confidence and arrogance of Governor Henry Seriake Dickson were the avoidable elements that provoked a protest vote that threw up an unlikely candidate of the opposition party, Chief David Lyon, to victory in the election. The PDP’s miscalculation has given the ruling APC an important inroad into the South South geo-political zone and may use Bayelsa as a launch-pad to keenly wrestle some other states from the PDP in 2023, thereby making the APC a truly national party, both in practice and outlook. APC has never hidden its determination to whittle down PDP’s influence and control in the South South as shown in its activities in Rivers and Akwa Ibom states in the 2019 general elections to win any of those states by hook or crook. President Muhammadu Buhari and other top notches of the APC might have congratulated David Lyon on his victory at the poll, but one man that keeps everybody guessing is the governor-elect’s co-contestant in the last governorship primary election in the state, Senator Heinekein Lokpobiri. The former minister has not yet thought it wise to congratulate and express his gratitude to Bayelsans who craved for a change and then massively in one accord voted for the change and transferred the mandate to the APC without minding whose ox is gored. Prior to the November 16 election, Lokpobiri had cried out that he won the primaries and so should be considered the authentic candidate for that election. But, his calculation was in total variance with that of the leader of the party in the state, Chief Timipre Silva, Buhari’s Minister of State for Petroleum. Like Zamfara and Rivers states, the September 4 governorship primary elections in Bayelsa State raised the same question that could not be answered by the leadership of the APC at the centre when it lost all to the PDP. It was not confirmed whether the primary that brought David Lyon in September 4 conformed with the guidelines of the party in such an exercise. Accordingly, it is stipulated that in conducting a primary election, the results at the ward level have to be collated at the Local Government area, while that of the LGAs are collated at the state secretariat of the party, invariably, Yenagoa, the state capital. This process, many believe, was not adequately followed, which resulted in the heat that followed the outcome of the exercise in the first place. Besides, it was the decision of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC in its meeting chaired by the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, at Abuja that decided that both Kogi and Bayelsa states should adopt the indirect method for the conduct of the election primaries for the governorship elections. But, while Kogi State went ahead and applied the indirect primary which was favourable to the sitting Governor, Yahaya Bello, the reverse was the case in Bayelsa State. This was a play back of Rivers State scenario that caused discontent between Senator Magnus Abe and Architect Tonye Cole, who was supported by Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation. And at the end, APC lost out ultimately. The chairman of the committee that superintended the primary election in Bayelsa, Governor Maimala Buni of Yobe State, having sensed some smart play by the Timipre Silva camp became furious with the process. He left the state with displeasure having realised that his integrity was almost touched by some desperados who were hell bent on seeing the result of the election primaries went their way. An impeccable source divulged that some key stakeholders in the party were promised oil blocs by the Minister of State (Petroleum) just to accept any methodology that would favour David Lyon to win the first huddle of becoming the new Governor of Bayelsa State. It was at this point that the game suddenly switched to favour the governor-elect by announcing him the winner of the election primary in a certain hotel in the state capital. APC might have won Bayelsa State, but the victory remains a bitter sweet pill in the mouth of some members of the party. Sunday INDEPENDENT checks revealed that some governors in the APC Governors Forum (AGF) are annoyed with Oshiomhole for not respecting their opinion of having Senator Lokpobiri as the party’s preferred candidate for the governorship election in Bayelsa. A source within the party was quick to say that a good number of the governors had given preference to Lokpobiri to fly the APC flag in the last election giving his wealth of experience in politics. Juxtaposing the two contenders: Lyon and Lokpobiri on the pedestal, it was the conviction of the governors that the latter having served as a Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly and later became a Senator, then a minister, he has what it takes to make a far-reaching impact when the 2023 election beckons. Investigation revealed that some progressives in the APC fold would want to root for Dr. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State as the next President in 2023, depending on the zoning arrangement of the APC. With Fayemi as the anointed candidate for the coveted position, the door would finally be shut against the national leader of the party, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, whose political spread across the country would be difficult, if not impossible to deflate. Tinubu has not hidden his intention to occupy the Aso Rock Villa in 2023. This explains why the former Lagos State governor would do everything within his power to perpetrate Oshiomhole on the saddle as the APC national chairman despite widespread misgivings his chairmanship has generated over the years. Oshiomhole is believed to have caused enough crises in the party already giving the way APC lost out in Zamfara and Rivers states in the last general elections. His combative tendency and near abrasive approach to party administration which is in total variance from the leadership style of the former national chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, leaves more to be desired. The call for Oshiomhole’s sack as the party’s chairman is becoming louder on daily basis, even to the dumb. APC in Edo State stands on quick sand. This is because of his confrontation with the state governor, Godwin Obasaki. At the end, APC may lose Edo in 2020. “The controversy trailing the APC in Bayelsa State is far from over”, the source said. “Senator Heineken Lokpobori was the choice candidate of the APC Governors’ Forum, which nominated the governor of Yobe State to midwife the return of Lokpobiri as the winner in the party’s primary on September 4. “Sylva was a beneficiary of the governors’ lobby to be made a Minister of State on Petroleum, a project that had the support and backing of Lokpobiri despite the security check on the former governor.” The source noted that the chairman of the election primary was left with no option than to ensure that the “instrument to authenticate the candidate of the party was left and secured with Lokpobiri, the preferred candidate by his colleagues in the APC Governors’ Forum”. He further explained that the choice of Lokpobiri by the APC governors was the build-up to the 2023 Presidency in the South-West where Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State and his colleagues have allegedly settled for Kayode Fayemi as a strong contender to thwart the ambition of Tinubu. Lokpobiri being a former Speaker, Senator and a former Minister is unarguably better positioned to have the knowledge, capacity and political will to galvanise support in the South South for Kayode Fayemi, if compared with the choice of David Lyon who has little or no political experience about the intrigues and permutation of the APC politicking. Back home in Bayelsa, David Lyon will have his hands full with variety of crises to contend with. He will first have to surmount the series of court cases awaiting him. PDP said it would challenge the election in the court to test its transparency. Besides, Lokpobiri is of the belief that he was the authentic candidate for the election and wants the court to declare him so. The case is on Appeal at the moment. Other forces waiting to divide the attention of the governor-elect are the PDP members who defected few weeks to election to APC, who believe that they aided the party to victory as it was never on ground in Bayelsa State. There is also the group of the former militants, some of who were empowered by Lyon through his pipeline surveillance contract. This set of people is solidly behind the governor-elect and would want to go extra mile to protect his interest, but not without a cost. Only a few days ago, Yekini Nabena, APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary came out strong with a claim that Heineken Lokpobiri wants to upstage the governor-elect, David Lyon, via the court which has the full backing of two governors from the North. Nabena said the two governors of the ruling party were using the former minister to anchor their foothold in the Niger Delta in furtherance of their 2023 political ambitions and warned the governors to thread with caution in Bayelsa and Niger Delta politics. He alleged that the two northern governors were using Senator Lokpobiri to cause disaffection in the state, saying that “it is common knowledge that Senator Heineken Lokpobiri has refused to congratulate and identify with the governor-elect of Bayelsa State, Chief David Lyon, after his landslide election victory. “Lokpobiri has refused to drop his misplaced and ill-advised legal action taken against the APC and David Lyon with the hope of acquiring the Bayelsa governorship mandate with the support of his sponsors. “After the Bayesla governorship election, stakeholders have had several meetings where Lokpobiri’s sponsors were identified as two northern governors which I am not disposed to name for political reasons,” he said. He said depending on the zoning arrangements adopted by the APC for the 2023 presidency, the two northern governors are positioning themselves by scheming to control Bayelsa State through Lokpobiri and then use that as a springboard into other South South states. “We will not allow anybody to disrupt the peace of Bayelsa State in furtherance of their selfish political interests. President Buhari is a stickler for democratic principles and the rule of law, we all must follow these principles.” According to Nabena, “Chief David Lyon emerged as the popular APC governorship candidate and went ahead to overwhelmingly win the Bayelsa governorship election. It is Heineken Lokpobiri’s constitutional right to approach the court, even if his case has no merit. But, I think it is important to let the world know that Heineken Lokpobiri’s actions are sponsored by outsiders in furtherance of their political interests ahead of 2023.” Responding to Nabena’s position, another APC chieftain, Hon. Sunday Frank Oputu, faulted the allegation levelled against the Northern governors over the alleged sponsorship of the Senator Heineken Lokpobiri’s legal battle against the party on the September 4 party governorship primary in the state and provocation of division among the people of the Niger Delta region. Frank-Oputu described the allegation against the Northern governors as irresponsible and a show of ingratitude by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary and his sponsors. “It is obvious that he doesn’t know his role and that of his sponsors within the APC,” he said. He revealed the identity of the state governors being accused by Yekini Nabena as governors of Kebbi and Jigawa states, Abubarkar Atiku Bagudu and Mohammadu Badaru Abubakar, respectively, and said the allegation was “unfortunate and is a clear case of ingratitude to those that came to the state to assist the party to win the just concluded governorship election. “I believe their contributions played a key role in the success achieved by the party. But, this same man went around to say that they are sponsoring Senator Lokpobiri. The issue about Senator Lokpobiri is that he is seeking for justice. He contested the primaries of the party and won, the officials did something else in a hotel instead of at the party secretariat where the constitution of party stipulates that the results be collated.” The APC chieftain warned the Deputy National Publicity Secretary to come out with the truth over the reasons for the sudden outburst and irresponsible claims against the Northern governor. They told the Northern Governors to talk to Senator Lokpobiri but since they refused by telling them that it is better the court handles it, they have become their enemies. The governors should be left out of this. They don’t have time for the internal matters of Bayelsa APC. Everybody is interested in what the Appeal Court will decide.” Frank-Oputu, however, challenged Timipre Sylva, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Chief David Lyon, to come out with the decisions reached during the presentation of Lyon to President Muhammadu Buhari He claimed that despite the twisted claims handed to Bayelsans by the delegation of Sylva, Oshiomole and Lyon during the last meeting with President Buhari, “they came up with a deceitful claim that Buhari has given them the assurance that he will call Senator Lokopobiri to order for him to withdraw his case from court.” “But President Buhari is not that kind of person. When they talk of integrity Nigerians should believe me. From available source, President Buhari told them that anybody that is not satisfied with the governorship primaries should be allowed to seek redress in court and not ferment trouble at the party secretariat. And that the court be allowed to pronounce the true winner. He (Buhari) made it clear that he will not interfere in the internal matters and will always say go to court and defend your course. “Nobody should use his (Buhari’s) name to talk to any aggrieved person. If he was that kind of person, he would have done same in Zamfara and Rivers States. The case filed by Senator Lokpobiri is very much alive and I want to assure Bayelsans that Lokpobiri will emerge winner and be sworn-in by February.” The political activist called on Nabena and his sponsors to stay focused on preparing defence against the multiple litigations against the deputy-governor-elect, the governor-elect, instead of provoking and calling people names in spite of the help rendered to the party to win the election. They should stop calling people names and sponsoring disunity in the party.” Also, Chief Livinus Opuakpa, former National Vice Chairman of the All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) also expressed the need for the leadership of the APC, both at the national and state levels to be conscious of what they do so that APC does not lose out in Bayelsa as was the wont in Zamfara and Rivers States. “APC members in Bayelsa State are aggrieved about the way the election primaries were hijacked. How can anybody give the flag of the party to somebody who scored the least vote in the primaries and be declared a winner? Senator Lokpobiri scored over 170,000 votes as against the about 42,000 votes scored by David Lyon. Looking at this figure, who is supposed to be the winner of that election? “As party loyalists, we are all waiting for the outcome of the court case. We believe in the collective success of the APC in Bayelsa State and we pray that the greed of some privileged persons does not harm the success of the party in the state,” he noted. In view of the above, the picture looks grim for the future of APC in Bayelsa in the light of what happened in Zamfara State on December 3 where a monumental political error warped in the cloak of selfishness denied the party “ownership” of the state. It is very unlikely that Lokpobiri will withdraw the case from the court. PDP is already assembling all the facts and videos it could garner to prove that the November 16 election was “a democratic coup aided by the federal security agencies”. With David Lyon not having the panache of lobbying, how will APC fare in Bayelsa State as a ruling party?