ABUJA – The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has said the women component of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), would one day produce the IGP. This was as he also encouraged women police to sustain their professional excellence as demonstrated in their various assignments, including peacekeeping operations and other international and national engagements. Speaking at the 2019 Nigeria Police Force Women’s Conference, which took place in Abuja, Adamu, said, “One day, we will have a woman IGP in this country. It is very possible. “We have woman Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, Assistant Inspector Generals of Police, Commissioners of Police and many others, who have competed favorably and excellently with their male counterparts and distinguished themselves creditably in many critical engagements both within and outside the country. “Women officers in Nigeria Police have evolved over the years to become a critical component of policing in Nigeria. From a humble beginning when twenty young women police were recruited to perform traffic and secretarial duties, their roles have now expanded to all spheres of policing. “We have produced several women police officers, who have and are still holding strategic positions in the force,” he said While harping on the feats of women police, the IGP made reference to Assistant Commissioner of Police, Chioma Ajunwa, the first Nigerian ever to win gold medal at the1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, USA, a record yet to be equalled by any other sport person in Nigeria. On the importance of the conference, Adamu stated that, the forum represented a strategic platform to interact, engage in professional peer review and address gender-related issues that might be inhibiting the optimal performance of women officers in the Nigeria Police. He said;”It is my expectation that you will fully utilise this opportunity to enhance your professional outputs and acquaint yourselves with laid down rules and disciplinary processes as it affects women Police officers. ” He emphasised that, the Nigeria Police has over the years emplaced polices to respect gender sensitivity. According to him, the establishment of the office of the Force Gender Advisor in the Nigeria Police as well as the establishment of the Gender Unit under the Force Intelligence Bureau was informed by the desire to respect gender sensitivity. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, in-charge of Animal Branch, Dr. Aishatu Abubakar, who is the most senior woman police officer in the NPF at the moment in her opening speech on the occasion, asked for more roles for women police.