Hon. Moshood Oshun is the member representing Lagos Mainland 1 Constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly. In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, he expressed the view that in order to cut down on coast of governance, the country can do away with the Senate and operate a unicameral legislature. He also speaks on why politics cannot be done on part-time basis. Excerpts: There have been agitations from Nigerians that in order to cut down on cost of governance, one of the houses in the national assembly should be scrapped and that this would make save more money. Do you also think this would help? In as much as we feel we are spending too much on governance and we want to bring it down, looking at the national assembly, we have the Senate and we have the House of Representatives, we can actually merge them into one and have just one house. We can have representations from every constituency and local government areas. For example, now we have 360 members representing all the constituencies in Nigeria, but we must understand that all constituencies are not the same, in terms of size, some are not the same, so we have to look at that. But talking about the senate, we can let it go, I think this will save us money. Because if you look at the federal budget for example, we have two houses working on the same budget, so we can one house doing that job and passing the budget. So, for me, I will support letting the Senate go. Senator Rochas Okorocha recently suggested that instead of three senators per state, we should have just one and some others have suggested three House of Representatives members per state. Don’t you think this will do more in cutting cost of governance? Well, I don’t think that would work. Let us look at a state like Lagos, where you have about 22 million people leaving in the state, and you want to have only three members representing the state, are we saying just one member per senatorial district? I think it would be too large. In the senate, we have one member per senatorial district because we have the House of Representatives doing the same thing. So if you talking of a thorough job, for me, I think it will better to leave the House of Representatives so that we can have a representation closer to the people; one that will be people-oriented, instead of still having the senate. What do think about making politics part-time time job especially for legislators? Nigerians are of the opinion that the legislators are earning too much and that instead of making it a full time, the legislators should sit and get paid per sitting. Do you have a contrary view to this? I don’t think that is a good idea and I don’t think it would work. The Nigerian Constitution as amended stipulates and states that you are not allowed to do any other business or practice any other profession when you are an elected office holder. The only other business you are allowed to do is agriculture, you are not allowed to do any other business. Even if you are a lawyer, doctor, engineer or an accountant, you are not allowed to practice what you studied in school because you have been elected into an office. Also, if we are saying we want to make politics a part-time thing and you want me as a legislator to come in maybe twice or thrice a week to sit and then go back to my profession, then it means as human, my profession will affect my legislative duty. For instance, if I am lawyer and there is a law that I think will soothe my profession or maybe my client, then I would go and argue it out at the House of Assembly or in the House of Reps and I would make sure it is passed into law because I know it would soothe me. There is no way it won’t affect me. Another thing is that you can’t be a good legislator without you devoting your time to it, and how do you devote your time to it? As a legislator, I wake around 2 or 3 in the morning to read. If I have a bill or presentation on the floor of the House, I have to prepare for it but if you are saying it should be a part time job, then it is not going to be of priority to me, I am just going to face my profession. Then you are going to have kwashiorkor and unqualified people representing the constituents. If as a lawyer I have to make a presentation on the floor of the House tomorrow and I also have a case in court, I would rather read my brief so that I can be well prepared for the court case because that is what pays the bills. What that means is that my presentation on the flood of the House would be watery. There is no way it would make any sense. And when we say career, what do we mean by career? You have a legislator that has been in the house for 15 to 20 years and you are saying politics is not a career, then what is a career? The speaker of Chicago House told us that he has been in the house since 1982 and he is still there. The speaker in the UK parliament was speaker for 10 years, though he has resigned today but he is not going to go back to the labour market or any paid employment. The time he should have used for himself, he has used it for service to the nation. Let us look at world presidents that have left office, how many of them after leaving office went back to their profession? I don’t think we have many of them. Tony Blair goes round the world now giving lectures, speaking at events, seminars and conferences, but he is a lawyer. John Major is there, he is not going back into any paid employment; Barack Obama has not gone back into any paid employment. It is not possible for them to go back into any paid employment because their bests have been used to serve the state. So for me, I don’t agree that politics should be a part time thing or that it is not a career. You need to devote your time in order to give your best. So are you saying if I am civil servant and on those days we are sitting, I would leave my job and come for sitting and after two hours, I would now go back to my job as a civil servant where I am a Director? So I will be a lawmaker working for the legislative arm of government and as a civil servant working also for the executive arm of government or as a lawyer, which is judicial arm of government, so I don’t think it can work. 