Edo State Government has included golf in the forthcoming 2020 National Sports Festival (NSF) holding in Benin City. This development has elicited excitement across the golfing community as golfers will have to commence preparations for the Festival. Donatus Isuku, the Edo State Assistant Head Coach, who ensured the inclusion of golf, told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the decision was taken after an emergency meeting with the government and the festival organising committee members. “After several efforts, meeting with the governor and attempts to also speak with the Deputy (Philip Shaibu) and other personalities who matters, superior reason prevailed at the end of the day. “In fact, the agreement to include golf was reached in a very serious meeting of the state Executive Council; it was a meeting concerning issues of urgent attention in the state which also include the Sport Festival,” Isuku said. Isuku who said that it was victory for golf in Nigeria asserted, “While it is good to win the Festival, I also think developing the game is more important and we will take it up from there. This news is what golfers across the country have been waiting to hear from when Edo State was given the hosting rights. “It would have been scandalous if golf was not going to feature in the Festival; this is because the Governor is a golfer; he plays always; the Deputy (Shaibu) too is a golfer; the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Matthew Iduoriyekemwem is a golfer and many others in the Government House; so what will be the excuse not to include golf ?,” he said. Officials of the Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF) were equally elated at the news as the secretariat confirmed to DAILY INDEPENDENT that it would in no distant time issue a comprehensive statement to express their happiness. The Federation (NGF) has made several representations towards ensuring that golf is included in the Sport Festival and the efforts have finally come to fruition. Emy Ekong, the NGF Director of Youth and Women Development noted, “This is a cheering news; the National Sports Festival is an opportunity for players at all levels (professionals and amateur) to exhibit their talent and skill. Good one from Edo State Government.” Donatus who is also the Resident Professional at the Benin Golf Club revealed that golf has 36 medals which include 12 gold; 12 silver and 12 bronze, just as only two gold medals is for the professionals and 10 gold medals is for the category-1 players. Earlier report by DAILY INDEPENDENT in November 15 revealed that the governor accepted to include golf in the festival not without a caveat, specifically for the Edo golf team who ‘must guarantee winning gold medals’ at the event. It would be recalled that golf has for about two decades been featuring in the National sports festival where Team Edo has been big beneficiaries as they hauled majority of the medals in ‘Edo 2002 edition.’