LAGOS – A Lagos lawyer and human rights activist, Barrister Tope Akinyode, has written to the Senate asking the upper legislative house to stop further debate on the controversial Social Media Bill. Akinyode’s letter dated December 17, 2019, a copy which was made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT, was written to the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, and the Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele.
The lawyer, in the letter, informed both the Senate President and Senator Bamidele to stop further proceeding on the ‘Protection from Internet Falsehood and Manipulations Bill, 2019’ because of its illegality.
In the letter, he recalled that Senate commenced deliberations on the ‘Protection from Internet Falsehood and Manipulations Bill, 2019’ on November 5, 2019, and on November 12, 2019, he filed a lawsuit with suit number: FHC/L/CS/2037/19 against the National Assembly, Senate President, Nigeria’s President and the Federal Government seeking an order of court to prevent the bill from being enacted.
According to him, the bill offends the provisions of Section 39 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), stressing that “the bill is repressive and difficult to maintain without a brutal violation of the citizens’ right to free speech.”
Akinyode, who cited several media reports on the suit he had filed against the bill, informed that the matter was slated to come up at the Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos on December 2, 2019, “but the court did not sit that day at the instance of the judge and the matter was adjourned. The court is yet to give an adjourned date.”
The lawyer noted that on November 10, 2019, he received a call from the Office of the Senate President wanting to confirm if he was the one who filed the suit.
“They also requested for the suit number of the case which they said was not legible on the face of the court process and I obliged them. In effect, the Senate President and the National Assembly are aware of the pendency of the suit.
“This position is further confirmed by the bailiff of the Federal High Court, who deposed to an affidavit of service,” he added.