 LAGOS  – The embattled managing di­rector of the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET), Dr. Marilyn Amobi, was on Tuesday sacked by the Federal Government. Her sack, which was con­veyed in a statement, was in
continuation of the reorgani­sation/sanitation in the Fed­eral Ministry of
Power. The MD of NBET has been enmeshed in several allega­tions of
corruption, resulting in the House of Representa­tives instituting a probe into
her activities. Besides, the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related
offences Commission (ICPC) indicted her of alleged violation of the Public Pro­curement
Act. Only last month, elec­tricity generation compa­nies (GenCos)
threatened to shut down power generation across the country over the
controversial order by the NBET MD for them to pay 0.75 percent administrative
charge on all collated and submitted gas and trans­portation cost invoices to
the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for payment. Sequel to the protest by the GenCos, the NBET MD had sued
the Executive Sec­retary of the Association of Power Generating Companies
(APGC), Joy Ogaji, over al­leged ‘malicious’ statements about NBET. Aaron Artimas, the minis­ter’s media aide, said his boss had
directed the managing director of the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company
to step down with immediate effect. “In view of this, the minis­ter has also directed the consti­tution
of a five-man investiga­tive committee to look into the myriads of complaints
against the MD/CEO with a view to re­storing sanity in the manage­ment of the
company. “Consequently, she is to hand over to the most senior
director in the organisation.” Besides, the minister has ordered the suspension of the
Managing Director of the Ni­gerian Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Ms.
Damilola Ogunbiyi. Daily Independent gathered that her suspension
followed the crisis of confidence be­tween her and the minister. A source said: “The minister believes the MD of REA was a
loyalist of the former Minister of Power, Babatunde Fashola, who still pledged
allegiance to the latter.” But the minister’s aide said Damilola’s sanction was due to
infractions in her agency. He said: “Following some apparent infractions in the Rural
Electrification Agency, the Honourable Minister of Power, Engr Sale Mamman, has
directed the Managing Director of the Agency, Ms Damilola Ogunbiyi, to proceed
on indefinite suspension with immediate effect.” Ms Ogunbiyi is to hand over to the next most senior officer
in the agency. Consequently, the minister has directed an immediate in­vestigation
into the activities of the agency towards repo­sitioning it for better service
delivery.