ENUGU – His Royal Majesty, Igwe Charles Nwoye, the traditional ruler of Amuri Ancient kingdom in Nkanu West Local Government Area of Enugu State, at the weekend, conferred various chieftaincy titles on three eminent Nigerians. Igwe Nwoye honoured Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and Senator Ike Ekweremadu, former Deputy President of the Nigerian Senate in recognition of their contributions to the South-East zone and Nigeria in general. Besides, Dr Okwesilieze Nwodo, a former Governor of old Enugu State and General Joseph Okoloagu (rtd), a chieftain of All Progressive Congress (APC) were also honoured. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Igwe Nwoye explained that the recipients were chosen based on their track records and contributions to the society and appealed to Nigerians to always eschew violence and engage in meaningful acts capable of promoting peace and unity in the country. In his acceptance speech, Governor Ugwuanyi who was bestowed the title of Aka na edozi obodo 1 of Amuri meaning, “the hand that builds community” expressed appreciation to the traditional ruler and people of the community for the honour is done to him. Ugwuanyi assured the Monarch that his administration would continue to make promotion of peace and unity in the state its watchword. In his remarks, the Crown Prince of Amuri Ancient Kingdom, Dr Ben Nwoye thanked God for keeping the traditional ruler alive and for the existing peaceful coexistence among the people of the community. “10 years even in the Bible is highly significant. In the traditional form, when a King is alive up to 10 years on the throne, it shows that the gods agree with the Leadership,” Nwoye said. Dr Nwoye, the Enugu State Chairman of APC described attainment of ten years on the throne as an automatic accomplishment in the traditional setting. “And so that is the significance of the celebration. Many Kings don’t go through 10 years and again, for the gods of the land to protect and guide him and the Almighty God to give him wisdom is a milestone. “I am grateful to God for using his Excellency Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to help to start some infrastructural projects. When there was kidnapping, the entire security infrastructure architecture all came to Amuri at the instance of the governor, the Commissioner of Police, the GOC, the SSS Director in the state, all came here to protect us and that is why we gave the Governor this title,” Nwoye said