Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie The month of December is a special month. It is a month of celebration, a month of sharing. So. many people focus on December 25th as though it is the only day of celebration within the month of December whereas there are so many  other life transforming and humanitarian celebrations such as World Aids Day – December 1st, International Day for the Abolition of Slavery – December 2, International Day of Persons with Disabilities – December 3;  International Day of Commemoration and Dignity of the Victims of Crime of Genocide and of the Prevention of this Crime – December 9; Human Rights Day – December 10th; International Migrants Day – December 18th; International Human Solidarity Day – December 20th and above all the Almighty Christmas Day which takes place ever 25th day of December. One common and interesting thing about these celebrations is that they all humanitarian celebrations. They all have to do with the welfare and the wellbeing of human beings. But what exactly are we celebrating on these days and if possible what are themes and essence of these celebrations? What impact do these celebrations have on humanity as a whole? World Aids Day:  December 1st is a day set aside to recognize people with HIV virus and people suffering from AIDS. It is a day to create awareness of the available treatment and support for people living with HIV. It is also a day to reflect on possible ways to reduce viral load and prevent onward transmission. People living with HIV are members of the human family. Any care and support we render to them is a direct service to humanity. he them of this year, 2019 World AIDS Day is “Communities make the difference”. This theme recognizes the essential role that communities have played and continue to play in the AIDS response. Those with HIV live within the community. Without the support of the community they cannot survive; Hence the theme: Communities make the difference.” It is our prayer and hope therefore that every community will make a positive difference in the life of HIV/AIDS patients. International Day for the Abolition of Slavery: December 2nd is a day set aside by the United Nations as an International ay for the Abolition of Slavery. Modern forms of Slavery refer to situations of exploitation that a person cannot refuse or leave because of threats, violence, coercion, deception, and/or abuse of power. Modern Slavery includes: Forced labour, debt bondage, forced marriage, and human trafficking, forced recruitment of children for use in armed conflict. According to the International Labour Organisation (ILO) more than 40 million people worldwide are victims of modern slavery. December 3 is International Day of Persons with Disabilities: The theme for this year, 2019 International Day of Persons with Disabilities is ‘Promoting the participation of persons with disabilities and their leadership: taking action on the 2030 Development Agenda’. People with disabilities are often discriminated against. Even with their academic qualifications they hardly gain employment. This year’s theme focuses on the empowerment of persons with disabilities for inclusive, equitable and sustainable development as envisaged in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. This agenda pledges to ‘leave no one behind’. It also recognizes disability as a global issue. On a day like this or within this month of December we are called to encourage and support as much as we can people with disabilities, especially those that are living within our region. December 9 is International Day of Commemoration and Dignity of the Victims of Crime of Genocide and of the Prevention of this Crime: The purpose of the day is to raise awareness of the Genocide Convention and its role in combating and preventing the crime of genocide, as defined in the Convention, and to commemorate and honour its victims. With this commemoration everybody, especially the government, religious bodies and other non-governmental organizations are encouraged to protect its citizens and members from genocide. This also calls for the prevention of such a crime, including incitement to it. December 10th is Human Rights Day. It is a day set aside to create awareness among people about their fundamental human rights and its importance to the society. Nelson Mandela describe human right as the essence of humanity. According to him, “To deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanity.” The theme of this year’s Human Rights Day is “Stand Up For Human Rights”. It is an invitation to every member of the human society to uphold and promote the fundamental Human Right. December 18th is International Migrants Day: A Migrant is a person who moves away from his or her place of usual residence, whether within a country or across an international border, temporarily or permanently, and for work, studies, tourism, and other reasons. This celebration is meant to recognise the efforts, the contributions, and rights of migrants worldwide. The theme of 2018 International Day of Migration is “Migration with Dignity.” Migrants are facing so many challenges. Visa and other travelling documents remains a major challenge facing the migrants. As a result we have so many illegal migrants across the world. Migrants need our support, especially through prayers. December 20th is International Human Solidarity Day:On this day we are called to celebrate unity in diversity. This celebration reminds people on the importance of solidarity in working towards eradicating poverty. On this day People are encouraged to debate on ways to promote solidarity and find innovative methods to help eradicate poverty. Apart from poverty eradication human solidarity also calls for peaceful co-existence and collaboration in all areas of life. Hence, a tree cannot make a forest! United we stand but divided we fall. Above all, December 25 is the Almighty Christmas Day: Christmas is an annual festival commemorating the birth of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. Christmas is observed by Christians and non-Christians alike as a celebration of joy and sharing and is marked by an increasingly elaborate exchange of gifts. It is the peak human solidarity. The Holy Father, Pope Francis, describes Christmas as the birth of hope to humanity. “Through Christ’s birth “hope entered the world.” Christmas according to him, is found in the act of God fulfilling his promise of salvation in becoming man. God “doesn’t abandon his people,” but “draws near to the point of shedding his divinity.” “In this way God demonstrates his fidelity and inaugurates a new kingdom, which gives a new hope to humanity: eternal life,” St. John presents Christmas as a celebration of Love and sharing: For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life.” (John 3:16). At Christmas God gave himself to humanity. This is the highest expression of love. As our Lord Jesus Christ rightly declares, “Greater love has no one than this, than to lay down one’s life for his friends.” (John 15:13). This is exactly what God did for us at Christmas. He gave Himself for us. He became Man so that man can become god. The month of December gradually losing its sense of celebration and sharing. People now use the Month of December to exploit their fellow human beings. It is now a month when prize of goods are hiked in the name of season. People are even kidnapped for ransom during this period. The essence of this reflection is to remind ourselves once again that the month of December is a sacred month. It is a month of joyful celebration; a month of fraternal sharing and a month of divine visitation. If you can apply these principles without making life difficult for your fellow human beings I assure you this year’s Christmas will be a special one for you. As you make people around you happy during this holy season happiness will never depart from you. And it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!