LAGOS – Things Fall Apart is a novel written by Nigerian author, Chinua Achebe. Published in 1958, its story chronicles pre-colonial life in the south-eastern part of Nigeria and the arrival of the Europeans during the late 19th century. One of the popular quotes in the novel and widely acclaimed globally is: ‘Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold; the falcon cannot hear the falconer’. The above preamble could be likened to the ongoing crisis engulfing the Athletic Federation of Nigeria (AFN) of late where things have fallen apart and the centre cannot hold. In the midst of the crisis is the embattled suspended president, Alhaji Ibrahim Gusau and acting president, Hon. Olamide George. The crisis took a new dimension on Wednesday when the Gusau-led AFN declared autonomy from the sports ministry during their ‘illegal congress’ in Awka, the Anambra State capital. The congress also announced the appointment of Siminialayi Pepple, as the General Secretary for the federation and Irikefe Ogbogbo as the federation’s legal adviser, while also approving the appointment of an external auditor. The 15-member AFN board has seven backing Gusau, while a faction led by the vice president of the athletics body, Olamide George, has eight members. George’s faction met at the Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja on Tuesday and suspended Gusau, naming George as the acting president. But in a swift reaction, Gusau’s faction met at a congress at the Golden Tulip Hotel and Resort, Agulu, Anambra State, where they announced the suspension of George and five others for two years over “anti-federation activities, gross violation of the provisions of the federation’s constitution.” Others suspended alongside George are Brown Ebewele, Gabriel Okon, Rosa Collins, DIG Sani Mohammed (rtd.) and Fidelis Gadzama. They also passed a vote of confidence on Gusau as the president of the board and declared their autonomy from the sports ministry, citing international best practices and statues of the World Athletics and CAA. Former president of the federation, Solomon Ogba said ministry’s interference in the federation’s affairs and the emergence of a new faction could lead to sanctions from world body IAAF. “The battle has just started, because the IAAF will not deal with those people (Olamide George’s faction), the IAAF will deal with Gusau,” Ogba said. “The AFN has employed a general secretary from outside the ministry because they want to be independent. They are going to be independent; they will move out of the stadium and rent their own office. “Right now, Gabon is under suspension by IAAF because of interference from their (sports) minister. There is a fight between the minister and the president of the federation in Gabon.” However in his reaction to his suspension and that of five others, George in a television sports interview monitored by our correspondent on Wednesday, said that the constitution of the federation did not give Gusau powers to call a congress without the approval of the board. He said Gusau called the board meeting, where he was suspended as president of the federation, but failed to attend. “The board meeting was called by the president himself, I have a documented evidence to show how he invited us for the board meeting,” he said. “What is clear was that a quorum was formed by members of the board of the federation. Eight members were present at the meeting, in line with the constitution and rules of IAAF. “Series of allegations were laid against the president, and the board unanimously agreed that he should be suspended. “On the congress in Anambra, the rule is very clear; the board must meet to decide about the congress. In our last board meeting, when we saw the notice of the congress, we asked the secretary to bring the minutes of our last meeting, only to discover there was no where we discussed about the congress. “The constitution of the AFN also says that if there must be a meeting outside the secretariat, the board must meet to decide that we should move our meeting outside the secretariat, which never happened. Gusau could not convey the board meeting in Awka because he could not form a quorum.” The factional president also refuted claims that the ministry of sports was interfering in the activities of the federation. The Olympic Games is barely six months away. While other countries are consolidating on their plans to excel at the Games, the members are busy engaging themselves in one crisis or the other. There is doubt and concern if the board has submitted its plans and programmes towards an improved performance at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Only on Wednesday, the Nigeria Olympics Committee (NOC) stepped into the crisis setting up a four-man investigative panel aimed at resolving the imbroglio. Phemmy Adetula, Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the NOC, said that the panel has Barrister Francis Orbih, President of Badminton Federation of Nigeria (BFN) as chairman with Binga Margaret, President, Taekwando Federation of Nigeria (TFN), Toyin Aluko and Emmanuel Nweri as secretaries. According to Adetula, the NOC cannot afford to close its eyes to happenings in the AFN. The Olympic movement and solidarity is known for peaceful co-existence. So, for this simple fact, athletics as a sport including other federations in the country must enjoy a peaceful environment without any rancour as they prepare for the forthcoming Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan next year. He said that the committee was mandated to report its findings within the shortest possible time to NOC. However, George led faction has rejected the NOC’s intervention on the premise that it has no powers to do so. George faction, which has the support of the Sports Ministry, has set up an investigative panel to unravel certain alleged financial irregularities during his-Gusau- reign. George, while inaugurating the probe panel in Abuja read out the terms of reference to the committee. “To evaluate the PUMA sponsorship terms of agreement, possible payments made and equipment delivered to AFN and any other. “Also, evaluate the valuation of AFN constitution, article 6:6.1.4 by the president Ibrahim Gusau by calling Annual General Congress of AFN without due process. “The team will examine the records of expenditure of championships, include but not limited to; African U18 and U20 championships in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, IAAF World Championship in London and Doha 2017 and 2019 respectively,” George said. “The investigative team would ascertain the amount approved by the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports and genuineness of all payments. ”Also examine and evaluate factors responsible for the viament of funds meant for payment to athletes, coaches and officials allowance at International events. “In addition, the panel will identify and report the role and responsibility of the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) on the hosting of World Championships to athletes and officials. “They will also identify and report any other matter for future investigation to relevant agencies. ”And make recommendation that would ensure an improved and smooth AFN as well as other recommendation as may seem fit by the committee,” George said. The board gave the committee two weeks to present its findings. But apart from the crisis, one question that keeps coming on the lips of the stakeholders is whether the federation has really helped in developing the sport in the country? Embattled Gusau, however, feels that his board was doing enough for the growth of the sport in the country and needs commendation. “Let me make it abundantly clear that everything we have done has been with the best interests of athletes in mind and an innate desire to develop athletics in Nigeria. “We believe that without athletes, there will be no sports and without sports, there will be no Sports Federation. “The interest of the sport is paramount on our minds and we will continue to strive very hard and do our best for the growth of the sport,” he said. He went further: “since the current board was inaugurated, Athletics has participated in 16 competitions viz: Nassau IAAF World Relays, BAHRAIN – 2017; London IAAF World Championships, LONDON – 2017; Birmingham IAAF World Indoor Championships – 2018; Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, Gold Coast – 2018; Cape Coast ECOWAS, Cape Coast – 2018; Algiers African Youth Games, Algiers – 2018; Asaba African Championships, Asaba – 2018; Ostrava IAAF Continental Cup, Ostrava – 2018; Buenos Aires Youth Olympic Games, Buenos Aires – 2018; African U18 Championships, Abidjan – 2019; African U20 Championships, Abidjan – 2019; Algiers African Youth Games, Algiers – 2019; IAAF World Relays, Yokohama – 2019; Grand Prix CAA, Yaoundé – 2019; African Games, Rabat – 2019 and the IAAF World Championships, DOHA – 2019. “As things stand today, Athletics is one of the top Federations that have high prospects of bringing medals from the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. “I have vowed to remain steadfast and work with all well meanings Nigerians, not just the Board of the AFN, to improve the welfare of athletes for optimum performance, source for alternative funding for sports to relieve Government of part of the burden of exclusively funding sports and develop athletics in the country as well as contribute my quota in the sports world. Our correspondent gathered that save for Delta, Edo and lately, Lagos States, no other states in the country is helping in developing the sport of athletic in their states. “The situation is very bad and that is why we don’t want to fold our arms and watch things get out of hands. “We need to fast for the sake of the athletes and the sport in general by ensuring that we do what is right to make the sport relevant and bring smiles to the faces of the athletes. “We will not relent on our oars to correct the wrongs of those at the helms of affairs but to continue to strive and do our best for the growth and development of the sport in the country,” said acting president of the AFN, Hon. Olamide George.