Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie The first Sunday after Christmas is the feast of the Holy Family. The Holy Family is made up of Jesus, Mary and Joseph. On this day the Church celebrates the human family as the indispensable segment of the society. The society cannot exist without the family. The society exists because there is family and because there is family therefore the society continues to exist. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Holy Father, Pope Francis, describes the family as the Treasure of humanity. The family, according to him, is a treasure that must be cherished and nurtured.  “Together, let us ask Jesus that any far-reaching decisions of economists and politicians may protect the family as one of the treasures of humanity.” Prayer is the best way to protect the family. Hence, the appeal for prayer by the Holy Father. The protection of the family is a collective effort. All hands must be on deck to ensure that this precious treasure is not only protected but also celebrated. Considering the importance of the family and the indispensable role it plays in the society the United Nations General Assembly has declared May 15th as International Day of Families. It is a day set aside to celebrate and highlight some of the family related values and issues. The theme of this year’s International Day of families is “Families and Climate Action: Focus on SDG13” The Sustainable Development Goals cannot be actualised without the family. The family has a vital role to play, not only in the SDG but also in national and human development as a whole. In fact, development begins at home! Unfortunately, there are so many challenges facing the family. We have so many broken homes; numerous divorce cases, the existence of single parenthood, domestic violence, poverty, hunger, couple with same sex union. Worst still the elderly ones are abandoned in rural areas due to urbanisation. Young people are trooping out of their village in search of jobs in big cities. Unemployment remains a major challenge facing the family. War and insurgencies have left so many families homeless, thereby creating a new phenomenon known as Internally Displaced Persons (IDP). With these and so many other challenges facing the family, we hereby declare a state of emergency on the family. Family Liberation is a book inspired by the Most High God as a lasting solution to most of the problems facing the family. It is the foundation of every Christian home. Family liberation is highly recommended for every home. The liberation of the family is indeed the liberation of the Church. Without family liberation the nation cannot be liberated. In fact, without family liberation national development will remain a mirage. Whether we like it or not family liberation remains the only way out! It is the solution to the problem of poverty. When the family members are liberated poverty flies away. Family liberation is also the solution to insecurity and insurgencies. Most of those who are involved in the crimes are members of one family or another. If those criminals are liberated from the spirit of stealing, robbery and even kidnapping crime will definitely reduce in the society.  Above all, family liberation is the foundation of love, peace and unity in the society. Charity begins at home. Before embarking on this project, our Lord Jesus Christ, spoke to me, saying, “Go and liberate my family!  – Prepare them for my second coming. Tell them that I am coming very soon. And “Behold, I stand at the door (of every family) knocking; if any family hears my voice and open the door, I will come in to them and eat with them” (Revelation 3:20).  With this family Liberation Prayer our Lord Jesus Christ will not just dine with your family He will restore all that the enemies have taken away from your family. There is a divine invitation to every family. In the Second Book of Chronicles 7:14 the Lord God declares, “If My people who are called by My name will humble themselves, and pray and seek My face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin and heal their land.” God is ready to heal your family; He is ready to deliver your nation. He is even ready to restore all that evil ones have destroyed in your family; but you must humble yourself. You must pray and if possible, with this family liberation prayer and then you must seek the face of God daily basis. With this, your family will never remain the same again. As God rightly declares, Prayer is the most powerful force that liberates and unites the family. The family that prays together stays together. Moreover, a prayerful family is indeed a powerful family. The Holy Father, Pope Francis recommends prayer as the only force that can strengthen the families bond. According to him, “We need simplicity to pray as a family: simplicity is necessary! Praying the Our Father together, around the table, is not something extraordinary: it’s easy. And praying the Rosary together, as a family, is very beautiful and a source of great strength!  And also praying for one another! The husband for his wife,  the wife for her husband, both together for their children, the children for their grandparents….praying for each other.  This is what it means to pray in the family and it is what makes the family strong: prayer.” Indeed, prayer as the Holy Father observes makes the family strong. If you want your family to be strong then you must be ready to pray not just for your family but also with your family members. When God gave me the assignment to liberate His families, at first I did not know how and where to begin. But an insight came, why not begin with a family. For a journey of many miles begins with a step. I then started with my own family. After destroying our ancestral altar with this forty days family Liberation prayer we erected an altar of Divine Mercy, Our Mother of Perpetual Help and Archangel Michael, in our family. This Altar, as directed by God, was blessed by His Lordship, Most Rev. Dr. Martin Igwemezie Uzoukwu, the Bishop of the Catholic diocese of Minna and the Episcopal Director of Divine Mercy Movement, on July 17th 2019. This Altar is an altar of Liberation. It is an altar where families are liberated. With this Altar, so many families have been liberated. More are yet to be liberated. Thank God, and by God’s grace, your family is the next family that will be liberated. With this family liberation prayer your case is settled! Your family will rise again!  At the end of this family liberation prayer, your own family altar will be erected with the image of Divine Mercy, Our Mother of Perpetual Help and Archangel Michael. Invite a Priest to bless this altar. By so doing, you have opened the door for our Lord Jesus Christ into your family. Things will then start working in your favour. I assure you, through this Family Liberation Programme, the Lord God will liberate your family from bondage. All the members of your family will be set free. He will restore peace, love and unity in your family. The Lord will open every closed doors in your family.