LAGOS – Nigeria’s female basketball national team, D’Tigress have received dates in February 2020 for their last ditch effort at qualifying for next year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. The African champions are grouped with the hosts Serbia, current world champions USA and Mozambique in the same group for the tournament, from which three tickets will be won for next summer’s Olympiad. And ahead of the event in the second month of 2020, D’Tigress coach, Otis Hughley has named 14 players that will resume camping at the start of the year in preparation for the last phase of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games qualification tournament. D’Tigress qualified alongside Mozambique as two African teams from the pre-qualifying contest in Maputo last month, and they will now prepare for the main qualification tournament billed to hold in Belgrade, Serbia from February 6 to 9. Top of Hughley’s list are Virtus Eirene, Ifunanya Ibekwe, Promise Amukamara (Charnay Basket Bourgogne SUD, France), Sarah Imovbioh (Basket Namur Capitale, Belgium), Victoria Macaulay, Atonye Nyingifa, and CB Vigo of Spain rookie, Elo Edeferioka. Others are Upe Atosu from Butler University in the USA, Pallas Kunaiyi Akpannah Ezinne Kalu, Adaora Elonu, Evelyn Akhator, Aisha Balarabe, Louisville Uni guard, Elizabeth Balogun and home-based rising star, Murjanantu Musa, who emerged Most Valuable Player (MVP) in the Nigerian Women Basketball League and helped Air Warriors to their first title. Reacting to the draw which pitched them against USA, President of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), Musa Kida, said qualification for the 2020 Olympics was possible despite admitting that it was a difficult draw. “Being drawn against world number one (USA) and seven (Serbia) surely will not make the job easy but I am optimistic that qualification for the Olympics is possible,” Kida said. “We know that tournament of this magnitude costs money, time and proper planning. We are going to be working with the Ministry of Sports and Youth Development, the Honorable Minister, Hon Sunday Dare to ensure that we return to the Olympic Games,” he said. He went further: “The men have already qualified and all eyes are on our women to also join their counterpart in Tokyo. D’Tigress are the reigning African Champions and we hope this will count for something when they start the qualifiers,” he said. Recalled that the last time Nigeria met USA was at the quarterfinals of the FIBA Women’s World Cup in Spain where the D’Tigress lost 41-70 to the team that won the trophy and D’Tigress last qualified for the Olympics in 2004. Already, a cross-section of players in the team, have sent an appeal to the nation’s sports authorities to ensure the squad get adequate, improved and early preparations for the Qualifying Tournament (OQT). Leading charge for D’Tigress, Evelyn Akhator stressed that only proper planning would help the squad do well and scale through the WOQT. She called on officials of NBBF to, liaise properly with the sports ministry and Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) to ensure no loose points were left untied and all bottlenecks removed, considering that it is not as straightforward as the Afrobasket events. The ace forward went on to add that D’Tigress have shown tremendous strength and dominance on the African continent, but admitted that they now have to work harder to ensure they have a solid outing at Tokyo 2020, more than they had at the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup. “Big congratulations to us, I also know that we are going to the Olympic qualifiers and by God grace Olympic proper. It’s our birthright and we just took it back. “Nigeria is meant to be in the Olympics. We just made a statement in Maputo, Mozambique, we’re going to keep conquering, but it’s not easy. We have a lot to learn, we have a lot to do, and we must start preparations early,” Akhator concluded. Of course, one know that to go unbeaten in four years with an incredible 16-0 record has handed Nigeria the undisputed crown of African basketball and yet according to captain Adaora Elonu, D’Tigress are just getting started. Back -to-back FIBA Women’s AfroBasket champions, Otis Hughley Jr’s side is targeting a place at the high table of the world stage and to do that, they need to qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and compete at that level. Such an accomplishment is not a walk in the park. If anything, they will have to be on top of their game to achieve this target and further chase their dream to conquer the world. Nigeria made their debut at the Olympics 15 years ago in Athens and this generation wants to replicate that feat and even aim higher. In an exclusive interview with FIBA.basketball, Nigeria Elonu said, “It feels very nice this qualification. We needed this to continue to fight for a chance to attend the Olympics. “For Nigeria, I think it means that we are making them proud. We work very hard and are still working to reach our goals. Nigeria has been very supportive of our success and we are glad we have been doing well thus far. “It has been great. Many ups and downs at times where the players and staff have had to preserve and showing this record makes it seem worth it. “The next level will be another challenge. These windows are difficult for all teams. Not much time for preparation and review. “Our team has dealt with little preparations for many years and it is a luxury we know that can be very valuable. We are excited and ready to see our placement and country and have one mind there,” Elonu explained further. “We are blessed and it will be an amazing achievement for us to reach the Olympics. It has always been on the mind of the federation and players and the opportunity is getting near. Talent can be abundant but having a good coach and players who have a similar mindset is what is critical.” Following their impressive outing at the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup 2018 in Tenerife, Spain, Nigeria are hungry for more international exposure for it gives them cult status in Africa. Their improvement in the way they approach every game is visible to anyone with eyes that can see and it is this exact reason that keeps them on their toes wanting more and more. Elonu highlighted that when she said, “It would be fantastic and similar to qualifying for the World Cup – a big achievement for Nigeria. “We have one player who has been there before – Aisha Balarabe – and a flock of others who want to experience the event and compete.” Ever since 1976 when women’s basketball first appeared at the event (Olympic Games), it has become the dream of so many aspiring and indeed even established female players around the world to step out at the Olympic Games. It continues to hold a special and magical appeal for athletes around the globe, with 12 teams set to take the floor at Tokyo 2020. Those that manage to succeed will play their role in trying to dislodge the USA from their Olympic throne – one which they have occupied since 1996. With six consecutive Olympic triumphs, USA will be going for a spectacular seventh success after retaining their title in Rio four years ago. Also taking a gold medal in both 1984 on home soil in Los Angeles and in 1988 in Seoul, the USA have won Olympic gold a total of eight times already. The inaugural champions were the Soviet Union as they rode their way to the top step of the podium in 1976, managing to complete a successful defense four years later in front of their triumphant supporters in Moscow. Since then, a near perfect USA Olympic honors board has only been punctuated by the Natalia Zasulskaya and Elena Khoudachova inspired title of the Commonwealth of Independent States in Barcelona in 1992. Australia have regularly challenged the USA’s near monopoly, appearing in three consecutive Finals between 2000 and 2008, only to fall short. In the last two Finals in London and Rio, it was France who reached the gold medal game – but it was to be a familiar story as USA romped to yet another golden moment.