LOKOJA – Joseph Idoko, president of Stocks and Minas Agricultural Advocacy Networks Africa (SMAANA), , has launched a 10,000 hectres for oil palm plantations in Amaka , Igala Mela Odolu Local Government Area of Kogi State. Idoko who spoke during the foundation laying ceremony at the weekend, noted that the SMAANA initiative was meant to bridge the wide gap between palm oil demands and supply and to generate employment for the teeming youths of the country.
Idoko disclosed that the recent ban on the importation of palm oil has placed responsibility on the local farmers to meet the shortfall, stressing that his initiative is to leverage on the opportunity to revolutionize palm oil production in the country.
He explained that before the ban on the importation of palm oil, the country used to be a net importer of about 55% of her domestic use, causing several billions of naira to be spent on importation to meet the shortfall.
According to him, “Every household of about five persons consume 96 litres of palm oil annually. We have 24 branded vegetable oils in the market and each brand contained 75% palm oil as ingredients and with the 175 million estimated population of Nigeria and if you multiply it by five persons per household, it will give you 35 million households. Then, multiply by 96 liters per annum, it will translate to 3,360, 000 metric tons per annum.
“To meet this demand, we need a minimum of 750, 000 hectares of palm oil between 2019 to 2029, an equivalent of 75 hectares annually to cushion the effect of the embargo.”
He added that his SMAANA, a non-governmental organisation for agricultural advocacy, had also designed a tree crop expansion model, known as Oil Palm Estate Partnership Investment Development Initiative (OPESIDI), to complement government’s policies for the growth of tree crops in the country.
He added that the OPESIDI was determined to key into the Next Level agenda of the Federal Government and the New Direction Agenda of the state government to create sustainable oil palm value chain.
Idoko noted that a hectare of oil palm was capable of employing permanent six workers, adding that his 10,000 hectares would translate to employing over 60, 000 permanent workers.
He added that a hectare would equally produce 18 tons of fresh bunches per annum when milled under 18% extraction rate would produce six tons of special palm oil annually hinting that the 100 hectares of oil palm plantations rake in more revenue than a crude oil well.
According to him to achieve this objective, a forestry Mulcher, which was an earth moving equipment designed for bush clearing against the use of tractors that damages soil structures.
He lamented that with the importance of forest Mulcher which could clear five hectares of agricultural land per day, there was no single Mulcher in the country.
He assured farmers that his organisation had secured 18 pieces of Mulchers at a cost of N1,650, 000 which would be shipped into the country by AnozerEnergy Global of Florida, USA.
He appealed to the governor Alhaji Yahaya Bello to approve the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) on the 10,000 hectares to enable the early take off the project.
Meanwhile, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, commended the SMAANA for the initiative to revolutionise oil palm production, saying the bank would give necessary support for the project.
The governor, who was represented by Pastor John Alfa, disclosed that CBN in order to ensure food security had initiated various agricultural projects, such as Anchor Borrowers Scheme, Cluster Farming etc, of which it had disbursed over N30billion that had enhanced food productivity across the country.
He said with the annual oil demand of 2.5 metric tons and the internal production of 1.3 metric tons, leaving a short fall of 1.2 metric tons for importation leaves much to be desired.
He added that the oil palm initiative of the CBN was to close the gap and to ensure export , hinting that it targets the cultivation of 1.4 hectares to be cultivated in two years .