Stakeholders present at the recent National Information Management Stakeholders forum advocated for effective information and government data management. Besides, the participants called for the establishment of National Information Management Development Agency (NIMDA). OYENIRAN APATA, OLUSEGUN KOIKI and CHRIS EBONG write on the place of effective infotech and investment in data management as the new oil for the government and businesses to store and retrieve information, records, archive, and contents management. As Nigeria begins to appreciate the place of information as the lifeblood of all businesses and organisations, public or private, the dependence on the information superhighway has become imperative as to achieve 360-degree sustainability. Thus, as the nation embraces an alliance in the global digital economy, the single merchandise that drives businesses is ‘information assets’. Information stored by organizations and generated by government on a daily basis are vital assets that must confidential, has integrity and must be available at the right time for critical decision making and it must be effectively managed to achieve desired results. According to First San Francisco Partners, “Information Management is an organizational programme that manages the people, processes and technology that provide control over the structure, processing, delivery and usage of information required for management and business intelligence purposes. Information, as we know it today, includes both electronic and physical information. The organizational structure must be capable of managing this information throughout its life cycle, regardless of source or format (data, paper documents, electronic documents, audio, video) for delivery through multiple channels that may include mobile phones and online. It defines Data Management as a subset of Information Management that comprises all disciplines related to managing data as a valuable, organizational resource. Specifically, it’s the process of creating, obtaining, transforming, sharing, protecting, documenting and preserving data. To DAMA International, “Data Management is the development, execution and supervision of plans, policies, programmes and practices that control, protect and enhance the value of data and information assets throughout their life cycles.” Data Management includes everything from file-naming conventions to policies and practices on creating metadata and documentation for the long-term. Data Management ensures data that underlies an organization is available, accurate, complete and secure. Additionally, it addresses the development and execution of architectures, policies, practices and procedures that manage the full data life cycle. Data management history and evolution The first flowering of data management was largely driven by IT professionals who focused on solving the problem of garbage in, garbage out in the earliest computers after recognising that the machines reached false conclusions because they were fed inaccurate or inadequate data. Beginning in the 1960s, industry groups and professional associations promoted best practices for data management, especially in terms of professional training and data quality metrics. Mainframe-based hierarchical databases also became available that decade. The relational database emerged in the 1970s and then cemented its place at the centre of the data management process in the 1980s. The idea of the data warehouse was conceived in the late 1980s, and early adopters of the concept began deploying data warehouses in the mid-1990s. By the early 2000s, relational software was a dominant technology, with a virtual lock on database deployments. But the initial release of Hadoop became available in 2006 and was followed by the Spark processing engine and various other big data technologies. A range of NoSQL databases also started to become available in the same time frame. While relational technology still has the largest share by far, the rise of big data and NoSQL alternatives has given organizations a broader set of data management choices. Concept The concept of data management arose in the 1980s as technology moved from sequential processing,first punched cards, then magnetic tape, to random access storage. Since it was now possible to store a discrete fact and quickly access it using random access disk technology, those suggesting that data management was more important than business process management used arguments such as “a customer’s home address is stored in 75 or some other large number, places in our computer systems.” However, during this period, random access processing was not competitively fast, so “process management” was more important than “data management” used batch processing time as their primary argument. As application software evolved into real-time, interactive usage, it became obvious that both management processes were important. If the data was not well defined, the data would be misused in applications. If the process wasn’t well defined, it was impossible to meet user needs. Usage In modern management usage, the term data is increasingly replaced by information or even knowledge in a non-technical context. Thus data management has become information management or knowledge management. This trend obscures the raw data processing and renders interpretation implicit. Integrated Data Management Integrated data management (IDM) is a tool to facilitate data management and improve performance. IDM consists of an integrated, modular environment to manage enterprise application data, and optimize data-driven applications over its lifetime. IDM’s purpose is to: Produce enterprise-ready applications faster; Improve data access, speed iterative testing; empower collaboration between architects, developers and DBAs; Consistently achieve service level targets; Automate and simplify operations; Provide contextual intelligence across the solution stack; Support business growth; accommodate new initiatives without expanding infrastructure; simplify application upgrades, consolidation and retirement; facilitate alignment, consistency and governance; define business policies and standards upfront; share, extend, and apply throughout the lifecycle. Data theft, Loss As Growing Phenomenon Data theft is a growing phenomenon primarily caused by system administrators and office workers with access to technology such as database servers, desktop computers and a growing list of hand-held devices capable of storing digital information, such as USB flash drives, iPods and even digital cameras. Since employees often spend a considerable amount of time developing contacts and confidential and copyrighted information for the company they work for, they may feel they have some right to the information and are inclined to copy and/or delete part of it when they leave the company or misuse it while they are still in employment. They can be sold and bought and then used by criminals and criminal organisations. Alternatively, an employee may choose to deliberately abuse trusted access to information for the purpose of exposing misconduct by the employer; from the perspective of the society, such an act of whistleblowing can be seen as positive and is in certain situations protected by law in some jurisdictions, such as the USA. A common scenario is where a salesperson makes a copy of the contact database for use in their next job. Typically, this is a clear violation of their terms of employment. Data loss is an error condition in information systems in which information is destroyed by failures or neglect in storage, transmission, or processing. Information systems implement backup and disaster recovery equipment and processes to prevent data loss or restore lost data. According to a survey of data loss’s causes, more than two-fifth of users lose data because of hardware or system malfunctions. It is the most common cause of data loss. Absolutely, the hardware or system malfunctions can be shown in many forms, such as electrical failure, head crash, controller failure. Data loss may impact an organization through productivity disruption, reputation damage, exposure of confidential information and loss of customer loyalty or permanent business failure, among others. In fact, data management via leading data management platforms enables organisations and enterprises to use data analytics in beneficial ways, such as: personalizing the customer experience, adding value to customer interactions and identifying the root causes of marketing failures and business issues in real-time. Others are reaping the revenues associated with data-driven marketing, improving customer engagement and increasing customer loyalty. Dr Oyewole Ayodeji Oyedokun President/Chairman, Governing Council, Institute of Information Management (IIM-Africa) in his contributions to the discourse, advocated for institution of appropriate infrastructures to guarantee appropriate and adequate capture and classification of data in Nigeria. “Appropriate infrastructure must be put in place to ensure that data is appropriately captured, classified and put in place to serve various categories of users that exist within an organisation or the country. It must be properly indexed in any kind of system that might be in place for storage. “Then we talk about providing adequate protection for data so that data is only accessible by the authorized personnel within the organisation and data is prevented from unauthorised use by those that are not expected to have access to them. “So, these are the basic things that data and information has to offer to an organisation and institutions because they provide a lot of insights and guidance into quality decision making which will eventually engender appropriate return on investments; Describing data as the new oil or wealth of any organisation, Oyedokun said an actionable and intelligent data has become a vital tool that could an organisation or institution a competitive advantage. “There must be conscious effort when it comes to ensuring that data is properly utilised. It is generally said no that data is the new money and for any organisation to strive in the coming years, they will largely depend on quality data for effective decision making, operations and strategic functions. Not pleased with the drab in releasing information, use of traditional methods and poor representation of the country in data profiling by international organisations, the IIM founder SAID, “Personally, I am not happy with the way and manner that data and information management is being handled in Nigeria. “I think in the last couple of weeks or days now, we’ve actually been engaging the media on public sensitization, especially for the government understand that data and information management is institutionalised in Nigeria. “We do not have the appropriate standards and specifications when it comes to managing data and information and it is so unfortunate that the various arms of government that are supposed to be the custodians don’t even realise this talk less of coming up with initiatives that will stimulate these measures. “We’ve seen a situation whereby data and privacy regulations that should ordinarily emanate from the Ministry of Information were initiated by the Ministry of Communications. It has demonstrated that in this part of the world government is yet to see data and information commission as a corporate asset. “So it is with corporate organizations that consider tangible assets; equipment, furniture, fleet of cars, office furniture as assets without recourse to information and data as assets. Data and information are core corporate assets that could lead to the progress of an organization or could bring down an organisation. Deliberate investment in these areas could lead to increase flexibility in meeting the changing needs of businesses. “So data and information management is something that is grossly being played down in Nigeria and that is why we will continue to keep talking of the need for government to institutionalise data and information management. We have also been calling for the transformation of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture and also the possible separation of culture from information because it means that issue with culture will go well with tourism and information will go with a strategy and so on. He argued that this has become imperative for information management not to serve as the PR of the government. Public relations is different from information management if they are concerned with sensitizing the member of the public of what government is doing, then the ministry should actually set up a PR department that will be a channel for the transmission of government information to the populace rather than using the ministry as a public relations outfit. The ministry of information primary responsibility is to supposed to be the management of all information, data, archives and content been generated by the government agency in Nigeria comply with the policy, procedures, laws and standards that are in place for global best practices to be employed at various levels of government. “We are even clamouring for the creation of an agency under ministry of information now to become National Information Management Development Agency (NIMDA), all of these now we have just highlighted will be of the past because that Agency will be solely responsible for generation, collation and custodian of all government data, to make sure that every data are appropriately collected and also process accordingly, they will able to capture quality data that government can rely on for policy formulation, decision making and several other activities of government and the citizenry. This is because data is key and data is important, without it there’s nothing an organisation or government can do effectively to succeed or make informed judgments,” he said. A digital economy refers to an economy that is based on digital computing technologies, although we increasingly perceive this as conducting business through markets based on the internet and the World Wide Web. The digital economy is also referred to as the Internet Economy, New Economy, or Web Economy. The digital economy consists of various components, key among which include government; policy and regulation; internet, the World Wide Web (WWW) and electricity infrastructure; telecommunication industry; digital service providers; e-business and e-commerce industry; information and knowledge management systems. Responding to whether Nigeria is prepared for a digital economy, Oyedokun reacted negatively saying, “No. This is because the problem with us Nigeria is the fact that we tend to look outside of the country or the continent to see what is trending or what is in vogue, hurriedly plug-in without necessarily ensuring that we are ready for such. “During the recent E-governance conference held in Abuja, the government’s attention was principally focused on technology forgetting the facts that are certain structures that must be in place before the deployment of technology”. According to him, it is a misconception that technology can be put into immediate use the moment it is installed and helps solve challenges, saying it does not work that way in the information space. One thing about data and information management is that for you to automate any process, you have to ensure that those processes are functional, ready manually and physically before you can automate. So, the misconception of having technology deployment solving the problem is something that needs to be addressed and given attention. “We need to put our data right first. If the data is not right, of quality, complete and properly captured we might run into more problems at the end of the day than the problems we are trying to resolve. “Not too long ago, NCC declared the major junk of the data collated during the SIM card registration exercise invalid. Imagine the level of investments that have gone into that in terms of resources. Not the processes will be repeated. This is due to the fact that we lacked leadership in the data and information management space. When you talk about leadership in Data and Information space, you talk about ensuring that there are enough sensitisation, awareness and guidance. When regulatory bodies give instruction to the players in the industry, I don’t think these developments are put into consideration by the NCC. They are supposed to provide them with guidance as to the standard of the equipment to be used for the capture; they are supposed to provide guidelines for the personnel that will be deployed to conduct the process. “It is absurd to find people under umbrellas, on every street corner registering Sim cards without formal training. What is the level of their education or certification, and what is the reliability of the data captured and fed into the system? He challenged the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to up its operations, saying that most times statistics are challenged by stakeholders in the Nigerian project. “It shows the fact that government needs to do more in terms of sensitisation, awareness and accepting the fact that there is need for data and information management to be institutionalised because, for any kind of information or data that is going to be put out there, there have to be credible sources to buttress some of these and also to support whatever data that is actually being put out. Speaking on the quality of data and appropriate staffing, Dr Anne Thurston of International Records Management Trust (IRMT), UK said the quality of any records management programme is directly related to the quality of the staff who operate it. “Records work must be seen as a worthwhile career, not as the posting of last resort for those who are unqualified, incompetent, or idle. “When planning a restructured records and archives institution, it is necessary to consider the number of staff needed, the tasks they will undertake, their particular qualifications, and the requirements for their promotion through the civil service”. Acknowledging that the country possesses the resources to achieve a digital economy, he tasked the leadership to put the right structures in place and warned that the drawback of inappropriate data capture to an organisation r government possesses greater damage. Warning against reckless concession, Oyedokun said much the idea is not bad he called for a guiding policy or regulation that will ensure that whatever agreement signed with a third party jealously guarded and roles clearly spelt out. “Unfortunately, some of these data that are supposed to be proprietary rights to the nation might be used inappropriately by the third party because there are no guiding policies that will guide the way and manner some of this data are being put to use by the third party. “So in the area of data management, we have really got a lot to do, so many things need to be put in place. Data is the new oil and if data is the new oil, the government has to put a lot effort to institutionalize data and information management and it can never be overemphasized because it covers across every sphere of life be it healthcare, technology, education, manufacturing, supply chain, construction, and engineering”.