ABEOKUTA – Eulogies have continued to pour in for the former Presidential Adviser on Women Affairs, Titi Ajanaku, who passed away in the earlier hours of Thursday with former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Senator Ibikunle Amosun describing her as great advocate of women’s rights. Obasanjo, in a press statement by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, noted that the loyalty of Ajanaku and commitment to women affairs development was exemplary and worthy of emulation. Obasanjo also recalled how the late erudite nursing professional joined other Nigerians to visit in 1998 to persuade him to contest for the 1999 presidential election. Obasanjo described her as a woman who would do everything in her capacity to uplift, improve and advance the cause of women, saying that this largely formed reasons for her appointment as his Women Adviser, the position she served creditably well. The statement read, “I remember vividly one of my memorable encounters with Titi Ajanaku, when she accompanied a group of politicians led by C S. M. Afolabi of blessed memory to my Abeokuta residence to persuade me to contest as president of Nigeria. “It was partly their persuasion and that of other groups alike that later yielded my final submission to contest for the office of the President of Nigeria. “In her lifetime, Ajanaku had a genuine desire to contribute her quota to building a better society through advocacy for fundamental human rights and service to humanity. “She was an activist dedicated to the cause of protecting the rights of women within the context of culture, policy and law. An advocate of gender balance, she remained mindful of those fundamental responsibilities of women which remain critical to family life and family stability. “All of these culminated in my appointing her as my Special Adviser on Women Affairs during my administration as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and she creditably acquitted herself in every assignment given to her. “Indeed, shortly after her appointment, it was easy to recognise her notable qualities of work ethic and commitment to public service. She bore the responsibility of proving her mettle with the consciousness that her success would create opportunities for other women.” In a separate message from his media office, former Governor Ibikunle Amosun expressed shock and sadness over the news of the death of Ajanaku. Senator Amosun described her death as a huge loss not only to the Ajanaku family but to all indigenes of Ogun State. The statement signed by Bola Adeyemi reads, “I am deeply touched that our dear state has lost an illustrious daughter and a trial-blazer. She will be remembered for the landmark achievements she attainted in her profession as a nurse, counsellor and in public, community and religious service. “As a politician per excellence, it is on record that the served meritoriously as a local government chairman and later as a Special Adviser on women affairs to President Olusegun Obasanjo.” According to Senator Ibikunle Amosun, Ajanaku was a great advocate for women’s rights, emancipation and development as she truly demonstrated the vital role of the women in nation building. While commiserating with the Ajanakus and the entire people of Ogun State, Amosun urged them not to be devastated by the pains of her death, but to be consoled by her good works. Ajanaku, a founding member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), died in the early hours of Thursday at the age of 73.