Mr Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, has said that no foreign airline operator will henceforth be allowed to treat Nigerian travelers with disdain. Sirika made the declaration on Saturday in Abuja in a statement signed by Mr James Odaudu, Director of Public Affairs in the ministry. The minister further warned other airline operators to take a cue from the recent Turkish airlines experience. “Following the threat by the nation’s aviation regulators to ban its operations in Nigeria, Turkish Airlines last night flew into Abuja with a bigger aircraft A330 as against the usual smaller B737. “Officials of the airline, alarmed by the prospect of losing their Nigerian market, had rushed into a meeting with the Nigerian authorities to pledge total commitment,” he said. The minister also noted that the organisation had tried to comply with the conditions given to it to continue its operations in Nigeria, According to him, Turkish airlines had been notorious for the shabby treatment of Nigerian travelers over time, especially when they had to arrive their destinations without their checked-in luggage. He added that such behaviour by the airline had always given rise to security issues at the airports with protests by affected passengers. The minister, however, said the airline had now shown commitment to improve its treatment of Nigerian travelers by operating into the Nation’s capital with a bigger and more comfortable aircraft, noting that the situation did not need to arise in the first place with the Airline waiting for the strong-arm handling before doing the right thing. Sirika promised Nigerians better flying experiences as the nation’s aviation industry was set to undergo major developments in the coming years with the implementation of the stakeholder-developed roadmap. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on Saturday said the Turkish airline would operate with the right size of aircraft to ensure passengers were transported with their baggage. Capt. Abdullah Sidi, NCAA Acting Director-General, stated this after a meeting with the management of Turkish Airline in Abuja. Sidi, in a statement issued by Mr Sam Adurogboye, NCAA’s General Manager, Public Relations, said the airline would upgrade from Boeing 737-800 to Airbus A 330 and Boeing 737-900. “Consequent upon the suspension of Turkish airline’s operations into Nigeria and the meeting between its Management and NCAA Acting Director-General, the airline’s executives has agreed to start immediate freight of all left over passengers’ baggage in Turkey. “This will be achieved by instantly upgrading from Boeing 737-800 being used and found inadequate to a larger Airbus A 330 and Boeing 737- 900. “The programme of clearance will be carried out from December 13 to December 17. NCAA expects strict compliance with the remedial programme,” he said. Sidi warned all operators to ensure Nigerians were not taken for granted, adding that they should always provide safe, secure and efficient service.