ADO-EKITI – Over 160 patients in 77 communities benefitted from free surgical operation organised by the management of the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido-Ekiti. Professor Adekunle Ajayi, Chief Medical Diredtor, who hinted this during the ceremonies marking the end of the year activities also the beneficiaries spread across four states of Kogi,Kwara Ondo and Ekiti states. Ajayi disclosed that the intervention had saved 100 potentially blind patients who enjoyed free cataract operation. He stated that the management was also planning to expand the scope of service to humanity by improving on the existing facilities and adding new ones. “As part of the programmes of the hospital, we go out to the communities twice a week for free medical outreaches. I have not received data for 2019, but in 2018, we visited 77 communities in Ekiti, part of Kwara, part of Kogi and part of Ondo State where we attended to thousands of patients free of charge. “We did cataract operations for 100 patients, meaning that by the grace of God, we were able to restore vision to 100 potentially blind members of society. “We also did free surgery for 60 individuals with hernia, glaucoma and all forms of minor surgical procedures. In all 160 people benefitted from our free surgical outreach to mark the end of the year activity for the hospital. “Ordinarily, for cataract operation, you have to also implant artificial lens for the person to see very well, we do cataract operations for N50,000. Each of the other surgeries would have cost each patient between N45,000 and N65,000,” he stressed. He added: “My expectations for 2020 is to consolidate on the gains we have made.  In the last two years, we have been able to restore or regain the corporate reputation of the hospital. By so doing, we have been able to attract patients back in volumes to the hospital. “Moreso, we now find it difficult to get spaces to admit patients, part of what we would be looking forward to in 2020 is to get additional spaces for wards. My expectation in 2020 will be that add value to the volumes that we are seeing at present.”