ADO-EKITI – Far flung communities in Ekiti State have suffered both human and material looses occasioned by the criminal activities of some marauding herdsmen who often launched surprise attacks on them. The worst hit are those communities sharing borders with Kwara and Kogi states such as Oke Ago, Iyemero and  Orin-Ekiti. Only last week, residents of Orin -Ekiti sent a Save Our Souls message to Governor Kayode Fayemi over an alleged plot by the herders not only to launch a new attack, but also takeover part of their farmland. The killing of one of their hunters recently may have informed the latest protest. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Addressing journalists, a community leader and Onikare of Orin Ekiti, Chief Bamidele Fasuyi, alleged that the herders, had occupied and destroyed crops planted on the abandoned 2500 acres of land at Orin Farm settlement. The protesters regretted that the suspected herdsmen had destroyed crops worth over N50 million in farms belonging to 70 farmers. They alleged that one person, Mr. Emmanuel Ilori, had been allegedly killed by suspected herders, while the Benue farmers in the town were chased away. The protesters carried placards with the following inscriptions : “Save Our Lives We are in danger in Orin Ekiti’ , ‘Save Orin Ekiti from Herdsmen invasion’, ‘We are Tired of molestation by Herdsmen’, ‘We Won’t Allow Fulani to Chase us from Our Land’, ‘Government Must Relocate Fulani Herdsmen’, among others. A youth leader, Mr. Omotoso Mathew Kayode, alleged that the suspected herders had hoisted a flag at the farm settlement, warning the farmers to keep off, or face death. He appealed to Fayemi to compensate the farmers so they would not abandon the vocation. The Oniwaro of Orin, Chief Mathew Oke, said Fayemi should comply with his promise to build a police station in the town and rejuvenate the farm settlement to ward off herdsmen invasion in the area. The Commissioner for Information, Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua in his official reaction sympathised with the farmers but called for calm, stressing that Governor Fayemi was passionate about the matter. Olumilua said the governor was addressing the issue with the immediate deployment of law enforcement agents to the affected communities. He cautioned the people against raising fear of imminent attack. The commissioner said the red rag hung around the bush meant nothing urging the farmers to go about their legitimate business. According to him, the government had requested for more military personnel from the 32 Artillery brigade in Akure, urging residents of the area not to take laws into their hands. While describing the destruction by the herdsmen as unacceptable, the commissioner assured that the government was putting measures together in order to prevent future re-occurrence. Orin-Ekiti is strategic in the state because it is the community hosting the Farm Settlement set up by  government of the late sage Chief Obafemi  Awolowo of the old Western Region. The farm, situated at Ido-Osi local government area of Ekiti state, was established in 1959. Youths across the Western states were engaged and allocated portion of lands in the settlement in their large numbers to practise agriculture in large quantity for commercial purposes under the management of officials from Israel. On monthly basis, each of the youths were being paid three pounds for their up keeps. The farm settlement with 96 self-contained buildings which served as accommodation for the settlers was divided into two parts, permanent crops and arable crops. The permanent crops include, Cocoa,Cashew , Oranges while the arable crops also include  maize and groundnut. Former Governor Segun Oni during his reign was said to had brought officials of the state ministry of agriculture to the settlement and engaged some individuals in a bid to revamp the place but failed after he left office. Also, the administration of the immediate past governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose planted some crops on the farm but no activities in the settlement thereby making all the youth settlers to vacate the settlement in a search for greener pastures. Outlining his security measures, Governor  Fayemi stressed that a collaborative approach by all sectors of the Nigerian population is urgently needed to successfully tackle and overcome security challenges in the country. The governor said the cooperation of all security agencies, traditional rulers, community and religious leaders and all citizens is imperative to overcome insecurity and all forms of criminality. He disclosed that he has been in constant touch with his counterparts in the neighbouring states of Ondo, Osun, Kogi and Kwara to secure boundary towns and villages which might be used by criminal elements to gain access to the state. He noted that the appropriateness and timing of the meeting cannot be overemphasized as it came at a time the country is facing various security challenges. Fayemi stressed that security of lives and property is crucial to socio-economic development which explained why his administration has taken proactive measures to curtail emerging security challenges. Some of the measures, according to him, include, donation of two units of Armoured Personnel Carrier vehicles to the State Police Command, monthly financial assistance to the security agencies in the state and regular meeting of the State Security Council. Others are inclusion of the informal security outfits in the security architecture of the state, enlistment of the support of traditional rulers in the maintenance of lives and property in their domains, security awareness campaign on the electronic media. The rest are establishment of the State Security Trust Fund to enable sustainable funding of crime prevention interventions, creation of an anti-crime outfit code named ‘Operation Keep Ekiti Safe, resuscitation of Peace Corps and resuscitation of the Security Tracking System jettisoned by the immediate past administration. The governor added that hosting of the meeting was a demonstration of his administration’s interest in the security of the people expressing the belief that decisions reached would enrich the business of maintenance of law and order in the country. Assuring government of their commitment to peace the Serikin  Fulani  of EKITI State, Alhaji  Ahmad  Mahmud has hinted  his people  are prepared  to cooperate  with the traditional  rulers  in the state in fishing out bad eggs in cattle rearing  business. Mahmud said his members faced similar threat from the marauders who usually kill and steal their cattle. He also disclosed that he has directed members of hereditary association under him JAMINATUL-FULUBE to cooperate with relevant stakeholders to emerge menace. He assured that his leadership is ready to support any move or effort that would end the menace in Ekiti. Mahmud condemned what he termed “hasty generalisation of Fulanis as terrorists and criminally minded ethnic group in Nigeria. He expressed concerns over an alleged blanket tagging of all Fulanis as mindless killers. The Fulani leader also alleged that the media as well as members of the public have little or no knowledge about cattle rearing in Nigeria. According to him, the Fulanis have become part and parcel of Yoruba community, in Ekiti, having been living there well over 50 years. He however called on the media to always crosscheck their facts on any issue involving their members, farmers or their host communities before publishing same. Meanwhile a Fulani group, Fulani Ilorin Emirates Youths Vanguard has protested what it termed hasty generalisation of Fulanis as terrorists and criminally minded ethnic group in Nigeria. The Irepodun/ Ifelodun Local Government chapter, in a statement issued by its Chairman Usman Garba and Public Relations Officer, Oorelope Folarin and made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti expressed  concern over an alleged blanket tagging of all Fulanis as mindless  killers. They pledged to cooperate with the security agents in the task.