LAGOS – Nigerians were overwhelmed on last Tuesday when the Federal Government, through the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, ordered the release of Sambo Dasuki, a former National Security Adviser (NSA), and Omoyele Sowore, the Convener of #RevolutionNow movement from the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS). Though, there were insinuations that pressure from the international community, especially the United States government, forced the federal government to release the duo. Credible sources in the presidency told our correspondent that Mary Leonard, the US Ambassador to Nigeria, and her deputy brokered the deal for the duo’s release after their meeting with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Malami. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to our source, “The truth is that Dasuki and Sowore’s release was brokered by the Americans. The US Ambassador to Nigeria and her deputy met with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Malami and prevailed on them to plead with President Muhammadu Buhari to obey court orders and release them.” Malami, who spoke through a statement, said the decision to release them was in compliance with the bail granted the two by the court. The Attorney General’s statement reads: “The Office of the Honorable Attorney General of the Federation has reviewed the pending criminal charges against the duo of Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) and Omoyele Sowore. “Whilst the Federal High Court has exercised its discretion in granting bail to the defendants in respect of the charges against them, I am also not unmindful of the right of the complainant/prosecution to appeal or further challenge the grant of bail by the court having regards to extant legal provisions, particularly, Section 169 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. “However, my office has chosen to comply with the court orders while considering the pursuit of its rights of appeal and/or review of the order relating to the bail as granted or varied by the courts. “In line with the provisions of Section 150 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and in compliance with the bail granted to Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) (as recently varied by the Court of Appeal) and the bail granted to Omoyele Sowore, I have directed the State Security Services to comply with the order granting bail to the cefendants and effect their release. “The two defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial, which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land.” Dasuki had been in detention in the past four years over his alleged role in the $2.1 billion arms scandal while Sowore was picked up in August, this year, two days to the scheduled August 5, #RevolutionNow protest, for allegedly plotting to stage a revolution, and allegedly engaging treason, money laundering and cyber-stalking. These developments, have however, continued to generate reactions from members of the public with some commending the government, while others have criticised and slammed the government for not obeying court orders in the first place. Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, said in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, that President Buhari’s intervention has again confirmed that he is a stickler for due process and an apostle of the rule of law. According to Fayemi, “Again, the President has demonstrated that he is the father of the nation through his intervention that led to the release from detention of the two prominent citizens. “The President, by this intervention, has reinforced the fact that nobody is deemed guilty of an offence until pronounced guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction. This is good for the country. We congratulate Col Dasuki and Sowore and salute the President for the fatherly gesture.” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on its part, called on well-meaning Nigerians not to get carried away with federal government directive for the release of Dasuki and Sowore. National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said what the President Buhari government had succeeded in doing was to give itself up as a no respecter of the rule of law and court rulings. He said: “What is exciting about the directive to release these people? Has this changed their penchant for disobedience of court orders and the rule of law? This government has shown to the world that it is only interested in doing things its own ways regardless of the place of law and democratic order. “They felt the heat of national and international pressure, so, there was nothing more for them to do than to order their immediate release. Nigerians are not fooled by this and the government knows it.” Minority Leader of the Senate, Senator Enyinnaya, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Uche Awom, described development as a step in the right direction. Abaribe, who noted that the action of the government is the hallmark of a democratic society, however, asked the Federal Government to go the whole hog and obey all subsisting court orders by releasing other detainees granted bail. According to the Minority Leader, though the release was encouraging, the Presidency must release other detainees facing a similar fate, like the Shi’ite cleric, Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. His words: “The presidency must seize the momentum and release the rest; they must not be seen to be selective or acting on impulse. Again the Federal Government must now respect and adhere to the rule of law at all times. “It is becoming obvious that the country may face certain isolation from the international community if the government continues to disregard valid court orders. We must respect all statutory institutions of government and pay greater attention to the principle of separation of powers. This is the way to go in a democracy.” On its part, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) said President Buhari deserves to be impeached, rather than commended for the decision. CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugo­chinyere, wondered if the president was now the court of law that decides who gets released or not. “You (President Buhari) deserves impeachment not commendation for ordering the release of Sowore and Dasuki after ignoring valid court orders for their release, and presenting Nigeria as a lawless monkey-like Republic where the rule of law is dead. “Buhari’s attempt to turn himself into executive supreme leader and apex judiciary head by deciding who gets released after valid court orders shall be resisted and fought bumper to bumper as year 2020 starts. We are now living at the mercy of a democratic emperor, who decides who gets bail despite court orders. “The order for the release is an indictment and a useless order that has no place in constitutional governance. The president, by that order, has confirmed that he has been obstructing justice and disrespecting the courts and should be condemned by all Nigerians. Nigeria is a nation of laws and not a private estate of an emerging democratic dictator.” A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mike Ozekhome, in his reaction, said: “The order by the Federal Government through the AGF, Malami, for the immediate release of Colonel Dasuki, who has been in detention for about four years and Sowore, who has been detained since August 2019, is salutary for democracy, respect for fundamental rights of the citizens and observance of rule of law. “I am happy the government has finally realised its faux pas and is seeing the same light which I saw since 2015 when I kicked against the illegal incarceration of Dasuki. It is never too late to take corrective measures and make amends. “The government should add El-Zakzaky to the list of detainees to be released, because the whole world, aside from government apologists and grovelers, see all of them as political prisoners. Respect for the rule of law and citizens’ fundamental rights constitute some of the key building blocks of democracy. Obedience to court orders, however, distasteful, constitutes the irreducible minimum of a civilised nation. “I thank Mr President. I commend the AGF Malami, SAN, for this democratic gesture.” Former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, in a statement by his Media Aide, Uche Anichukwu, described  Malami’s action as “the best public relations job for the President Muhammadu Buhari government in 2019,” noting that the move would go a long way in rebuilding the confidence of Nigerians and the international community in the nation’s democracy. “Although we should never have travelled this road in the first place, the intervention of the AGF and the directive for the immediate release of Dasuki and Sowore come as a big relief for the nation’s democracy and will go a long way to restore confidence in the sanctity of the judiciary and its place as the last hope of the common man,” said Ekweremadu. Socio-Economic Right and Accountability Project (SERAP) demanded the immediate and unconditional release of journalist and publisher, Agba Jalingo. SERAP in a statement by its Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare, welcomed the announcement by the government, describing the development as positive step by the Nigerian government, just as he expressed hope that this would signal a change in direction in Nigeria towards full respect for the rule of law, tolerance and greater openness by the government that would allow citizens to effectively enjoy their constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms. The statement reads in part, “SERAP has consistently called for the immediate and unconditional release of Sowore, Olawale Bakare and other prisoners of conscience. “The President Buhari government should now immediately withdraw all charges against Mr. Sowore and Olawale Bakare and all others detained simply for exercising their right to freedom of expression. They should never have been charged in the first place. “We also call for the immediate and unconditional release of journalist Agba Jalingo and all those still detained on bogus charges, having spoken out in favour of greater democracy, freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly.” Femi Fani-Kayode, former Minister of Aviation, described as, “the way to go”, the order given by the Federal Government for the release of Sowore and Dasuki. Reacting to the news via his verified official Twitter handle, @realFFK, Fani-Kayode wrote, “I am delighted to hear that the Federal Government, through Attorney General Malami, has ordered the release of Col. Sambo Dasuki and @YeleSowore. That is the way to GO!!! Thanks be to God!” While also appreciating the president of United States of America, Donald Trump over the development, the former minister wrote, “I also thank @realDonaldTrump”. On her part, a former Minister of Education, Oby Ezekwesili, welcomed Sowore back to freedom, just as she applauded the activist for standing strong throughout the period he was in detention. Ezekwesili, who also reacted through her verified official twitter handle, also applauded Sowore’s counsel, Femi Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria. Ezekwesili’s tweet reads: “@YeleSowore, welcome back to freedom. Thank you for standing strong through it all. No government can win against the people. No government.” However, the governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in the 2019 general elections in Lagos State, Babatunde Gbadamosi, alleged that the Federal Government took the decision in order to divert attention away from the alleged attempt on the life of former President Goodluck Jonathan. Gbadamosi, who commended the release of the duo, said on his Twitter handle that, “I cautiously celebrate the announcement that the FG has ordered the release of Omoyele Sowore and Colonel Sambo Dasuki (rtd) from illegal detention by the DSS. My cautious approach is based on the diabolical precedents of this tyrannical Buhari government.” A pan-Yoruba organisation, the National Association of Yoruba Descendants in North America, described the development as a right step in the right direction. The organisation also known as Egbe Omo Yoruba of North America, said though it was happy at this change of heart on the part of the Federal Government of Nigeria, but maintained that “it is a token of what we are asking for. “This administration still has more to do in adhering to the tenets of true democracy and the rule of law. It is also instructive to know that Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky mentioned in our previous release is yet to be accommodated under this order of the Federal Government. “We must say again that this administration must shy away from arbitrary exercise of power as well as its selective obedience to law – choosing which lawful order of the court to obey and ones to disobey. When our laws don’t apply equally to all citizens, including elected and unelected officials, we are as a nation teetering on the brink of collapse. “We always root for a healthy nation and that is why we will not hesitate to applaud this administration for the right step taken in the right direction as we are doing now and castigate when need be of policies that are retrogressive and unsupportive of democratic principles like the direct attack on free speech as represented by the unpopular hate speech and social media bills, which contains many provisions that do not meet international human rights standards which we have called on Nigerian to lawfully oppose. “As said before, we are watching and keeping records of those who right now are standing up for true democracy and those, especially party and government officials who are sitting idle in support for tyranny. Time shall tell,” Durojaye Odimayo Akindutire, National President of the organisation said in a statement. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in a statement by its President, Rev Samson Ayokunle, described the gesture as Federal Government’s Christmas gift to Nigerians. He said: “We are very happy with the decision of the Federal Government to release the duo of Dasuki and Sowore as mandated by the court. We appreciate the AGF and the Minister of Justice for his intervention and counsel. “The action of the government is commendable and it is a new dawn for democracy. “We will not cease to pray for President Buhari and his team for a successful tenure in office. Nigeria should be a pacesetter for the continent in everything good, being the giant of Africa in the abundance of human and material resources.” Pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, said while it was happy with the order for the release of Sowore and Dasuki, it could not thank the Federal Government for doing so. Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of the organisation, said the rights of citizens were constitutional and should not be subjected to the whims and caprices of civilian dictators. “The regime has chosen to release them on its own accord, jettisoning court orders in the order of Decree 2 of military days. “We say thanks but no thanks as the rights of our citizens are constitutional and not subject to the whims and caprices of military or civil­ian dictators,” Afenifere said. While reacting to the development, Prof. Itse Sagay applauded the government, saying it was a welcome development. “It shows now is the right time for their release. Even the Bible acknowledged the fact that there is time for everything and I believe it’s time for them to gain freedom that is why they are being released. “The government incarcerated them for the sake of security in the country and now they have realised that there is a change in the situation and they no longer pose danger to the society. “Their release is a welcome development. I am happy that they can now go home and enjoy their freedom,” Sagay added.