Hon. Charles Anike is the National President of Eastern Union (EU), a political pressure group for the people of Old Eastern Region. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the Hate Speech Bill now before the Senate, the recent Kogi and Bayelsa elections, among other issues. Excerpts: How do you see the violence that greeted the Bayelsa and Kogi states governorship elections? There were actually no elections in the two states. What took place in both states was civil war. If re­ally INEC are independent, they would have been bold enough to speak the truth. It was cases of survival of the fittest. We have an INEC that lacks courage and compe­tence. After the colossal fail­ure of the present INEC in the conduct of 2019 general elections, one had expected the INEC boss and its entire leadership to tow the path of honour and resign. Unfor­tunately, we have INEC and security system that lack moral and sense of sanctity for human lives. Otherwise, the “elections” in both states should have been complete­ly cancelled. It was a mere bloodletting venture. Securi­ty agents compromised and became tools for sabotage of the people’s will. What is your take on the loss of the PDP in the two states? As we said, there were nev­er elections, but bloodletting exercises and survival of the fittest. It was the fittest that survived and not the choice of the people. If there were anything near free and fair elections, the reverse would have been the case, especial­ly in Kogi where it was very clear that the APC candidate is very unpopular due to poor performance. The case of Bayelsa can somehow be attributed to po­litical miscalculations and ar­rogance of the Gov. Seriake Dickson, who believed that as a sitting governor, nothing is impossible for him. However, the truth is that there were actually no elections in both states. So, the failure of PDP in both states is normal, as that satisfied the APC’s long quest and desperation to control Niger Delta oil-rich states. A Hate Speech Bill is presently being considered by the Senate. What is your take on it? The Hate Speech Bill is another madness we are ex­periencing under the APC government. The discussion on such proposal is a clear indication that the ninth Na­tional Assembly has nothing to offer. It also shows how lazy and unintelligent most of the people we have in the Senate are. Have you not heard that the Hate Speech Bill was doc­tored from a bill passed in India? Our lazy senator here downloaded it without even any effort to edit it, just like President Muhammadu Bu­hari’s inauguration speech in 2015 was allegedly copied from somewhere. Who are the authors of hate speech in Nigerian politics? The APC leaders are the authors. Since it was the weapon they used to oust the then ruling party, PDP, they are now afraid that it may also be used against them due to their incompe­tence and misrule. The guilt is usually afraid. Before debating such a bill, they should have gone back to watch the tapes, read their publications and utterances before and during the 2015 general elections. The whole thing boils down to the ru­moured Third Term agenda of President Buhari. He and his think tank seem to be plot­ting ways to silence everyone. Since in their thinking, the 2019 general elections plot succeeded, they are thinking of next level for 2023 so that they can continue to perpe­trate themselves in power. Recently, the President said he could decide to be reck­less now since he is no longer seeking votes. The Hate Speech Bill is meant to silence everyone so that when we hear that the National Assembly is amending the constitution to favour the third term agen­da, anything you say then will be considered as hate speech. Then, the Ruga Project can be resurrected. These and many more are the essence of the Hate Speech Bill. The spon­sors feel they will remain in power forever. Nobody can be a champion forever. They want Nigerians to become praise singers of their evil leadership. Nigerians see the alleged third term plan for President Buhari as real. What is your view on it? My view is not different from that of other well-mean­ing Nigerians. What the Pres­ident has said is far different from the reality. Otherwise, how can a leader publicly declare that he can afford to be reckless, because he is no longer seeking votes? All our sacred institutions have been compromised, including the military and judiciary. The next level agenda of the APC is to amend the Nigeria Con­stitution to favour the third term plot. After Buhari’s reign as president, there will be nothing like APC. It is not whether the president is denying it or not. The re­ality on ground shows there is underground plot against the Nigerian constitution. How do you see the money laun­dering allegation against the Air Peace boss? Mr. Oscar Onyema, as suc­cessful businessman, shows serious and practical con­cerns over the plight of Nige­rians in South Africa during xenophobic attacks. He air lifting hundreds of stranded Nigerians back home free of charge. This did not go down well with those in govern­ment who only pay lip ser­vices to the Nigerian’s plight. His patriotic action indicted the government and it didn’t go down well with the cabals. Onyeama’s gesture prevent­ed those in government who would have used the attacks as an opportunity to embez­zle fund. Some people are al­ways busy plotting the down­fall of a righteous man. The allegation is nothing but a plot to tarnish his image. Do you think continued border clo­sure is in the interest of Nigerians? How can it be? The com­mon man is the least to be considered when this gov­ernment is taking actions or setting agenda. The com­mon man is always at the re­ceiving end. Let me tell you that it is only the Southern Nigeria borders that the clo­sure policy is effective. At the Northern borders, things are still going as normal. You talk of the common man, the person who wants you to consume Nigerian made goods, what does he and his family consume? What has he put in place to aid local production? Our electricity has dropped to zero level. Without electric­ity, they want you to power your production with genera­tors? How is road infrastruc­ture and so on? All they say and do are eye services and hypocrisy. The APC govern­ment is very confused and has exhausted its lies and propaganda. Igbo politicians seem to be luke­warm over Igbo presidency 2023 agenda. Why is it so? The lukewarm attitude by the Igbo political leaders to­wards 2023 Igbo Presidency project does not come to us as a surprise. The reasons also are not far-fetched. It is due to Igbo wrong approach to the Nigeria politics which also has not favoured them. Also, the Igbo republican nature has grossly been over abused by the present gener­ation. Our belief in freedom of expression and self-deter­mination often becomes a weapon in the hand of others to destabilise us. Igbos sees everything as buying and selling. So, they wait for the season. They believe in fire brigade ap­proach. You will be surprised that once any Igbo man makes a move now about the race, over 100 of them will jump in. Then the result will be in-fighting that will weak­en their strength to face any reasonable forces from other zones. By then, everyone will begin to feel very important. Then, the businesses of be­trayal and sabotage will be­come the order of the day. You can see that now every­one is cowardly pretending not to be interested until one Igbo man takes a bold step to declare interest. The Igbo leaders are the real problems to the realisation of Igbo pres­idency before now and they act as destabilising agents. Most of them come out mere­ly to seek for settlement. 