Jos – The elated Plateau State Governor, Simon Bako Lalong has Commended National Bureau of Statistic’s (NBC’s) rating of Plateau State as 2nd least corrupt state in Nigeria. In a press release signed by his Director of Press and Public Affairs (DOPA), Mr. Makut Macham and made available to Daily Independent in Jos Lalong said the rating by NBS is a validation of the efforts of his Rescue Administration towards entrenching good governance, accountability and transparency in the management of public funds. He said, “On assuming office, I declared my administration’s zero tolerance to corruption and our determination to ensure that public funds are used strictly for the benefit of the people of Plateau.” This he said led him to establish various mechanisms for checking corruption and enhancing transparency in public service. “We were among the first States in Nigeria to adopt the Treasury Single Account (TSA) where we made sure all monies accruing to Plateau State went to a single account for easy oversight and monitoring. We also established the Efficiency Unit that is saddled with the duty of checking all proposals and requests to ensure that they are in line with the vision of the Government and offer value for the people. We put in place the Bureau for Public Procurement which has the mandate of vetting all procurements to ensure that there is no wasteful and exaggerated costs,” he said. Governor Lalong explained that recently, he set up the Project Monitoring and Result Delivery Unit (PMRDU) domiciled in the Office of the Chief of Staff with clear mandate to ensure diligent tracking of Projects and Programmes implementation by all the MDAs. According to Governor Lalong, his State has greatly improved the ease of doing business through the creation of One-Stop-Shop as well as enhancing land transactions through the Strengthening of the Plateau Geographic Information Systems (PLAGIS) to operate electronically. All these he explained have contributed to increase in revenue generation as most transactions of the State are done electronically thereby removing the conduits for corruption. “This declaration by the NBS of Plateau State as the second least corrupt State in Nigeria is great news for us as it explains why domestic and foreign investors, and foreign envoys are pouring into our State to do business and partner with us for various developmental efforts. In the last two weeks, I received the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, investors from Switzerland, Austria and Germany and just this morning, the Political Counselor at the US Embassy was in my office. We shall continue to make sure that we sustain this tempo and by the grace of God, Plateau State will be the least corrupt State in Nigeria when this survey is conducted next year,”
the Governor added. Governor Lalong thanked the people of Plateau State for their cooperation and support to his administration in ensuring that there is peace and tranquility which he posited is making development possible.