MICHAEL JEGEDE ABUJA – The National Assembly complex was built in 1999, although it was awarded in February 1996 by the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) during the military regime of late General Sani Abacha at the cost of $35.18 million. The first phase was completed in the 90s and the second phase between 2007 and 2011.This makes the N37 billion cost for the renovation of the complex in the 2020 budget outrageous, unjustifiable and excessive. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Initiated by the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, and House of Representatives Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, the lawmakers are adamant that the project will go ahead, despite the mounting opposition from the public. The FCDA will pick up the colossal figure at a time the organised labour is haggling with state governments on the payment of the new N30, 000 a month minimum wage. Regrettably, the National Assembly allocated just N22.89 billion to the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) in the 2020 budget, despite the horrible dilapidation of the country’s road network. Similarly, the Works and Housing Ministry has been allocated just N247 billion in the 2020 budget. The Minister, Babatunde Fashola, said the regime owed contractors N306 billion. Lawan said President Muhammadu Buhari is aware of the planned renovation of the National Assembly complex with N37bn next year. He said N37bn had been included in the FCDA 2020 budget. Lawan, who spoke with journalists in Abuja, explained that the complex, built about 20 years ago, was in dilapidated condition. He said, “When we resumed office, we noticed that many parts of the National Assembly complex were dilapidated. “We convened a meeting involving the management of the National Assembly, the Federal Capital Development Authority, Speaker of the House of Representatives and me. “We had an exhaustive engagement. The Speaker and I later met with Mr. President and we told him the situation of the complex. “Since the takeover of the complex, there was never, ever, any major rehabilitation or renovation, 20 years ago. “Mr. President responded by telling us that he was going to renovate the National Assembly. “We went back to continue the engagement with the National Assembly management and the FCDA. Eventually, we took what is required to renovate the phase one of the project. “This includes the two chambers, the dome and other committee rooms and offices within the white house. N37bn was sourced and was approved and put under the FCT, not under the National Assembly.” Lawan, however, said the project would be executed by the FCDA because the National Assembly is a national monument. He said, “All we require is to have the National Assembly complex renovated including the reconfiguration of the two chambers and of the press centre. “We have the opportunity after 20 years, to embark on the renovation of the phase one building of the National Assembly, when we are through with the phase one, we will go to phase two. “The National Assembly complex is a national asset being managed by the FCDA.” Contrary to the N22.89bn approved for FERMA’s capital expenditure in the 2020 budget, in the 2019 estimates, N24.69bn was budgeted for the agency, which was set up in 2002 with the aim of maintaining federal government’s roads. But in spite of this, the House of Representatives remains unrepentant and lashed out at the critics of the N37bn allocation, saying they were uninformed. However, groups, including the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) and the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) berated the lawmakers. NECA said the federal government ought to have increased budgetary allocation to FERMA, education and other critical sectors. NECA, through its Director-General, Mr. Timothy Olawale, said the country had become a nation of contradictions that would leave most pressing economic issues, for other things whose economic contributions had been questioned. He said, “On the backdrop of the allocation of N37bn for the renovation of the National Assembly complex, the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association has expressed concern at the seeming misplaced priorities in government.” The NECA boss noted that there were many roads which required urgent rehabilitation. He said, “The Apapa Port road has remained impassable, the Agbara Industrial Estate road remained a death trap and the Lagos-Badagry road among other critical roads and infrastructure in the country is begging for attention.” He stated that rather than committing such an amount to renovate an edifice, it was expected that government would adequately fund FERMA considerably by increasing its capital expenditure in the 2020 budget and increase allocations to education among others.  “However, this is not the case,” he lamented. An anti-corruption advocacy group, SERAP, equally condemned the planned renovation with N37bn. The group, on its official Twitter handle, @SERAPNigeria, described the planned renovation as “another white elephant,” vowing that it would file a lawsuit to stop it. It said the planned renovation “is antithetical to the constitutional oath of office (of the lawmakers).” SERAP said, “We’re suing to stop this wasteful and illegal spending.” A human rights organisation, Resource Centre for Human Rights and Civic Education, on its part, said the money would have been able to alleviate the suffering of Nigerians who were confronted with untold hardships due to a nonfunctional system. The Executive Director of CHRICED, Ibrahim Zikirullahi, at a press conference in Abuja, said the money would have gone a long way in providing jobs for many unemployed youths. But, the House of Representatives dismissed critics. The Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Mr. Benjamin Kalu, stated that rehabilitation of the building was long overdue. He said ministries, departments and agencies under the executive arm of the federal government budgeted more for such projects without any public outcry. He said, “It is not about the criticisms. The criticisms might not be well informed. The people criticising might not be well informed. The issue is that the National Assembly Complex is in a mess and there is the need for more facilities to deliver on the mandate that is given to us by the constitution. A particular agency presented to us a budget of about N340bn, an agency under an arm of government, not a ministry. We are an arm of government, bigger than any ministry or agency or department. “Whenever the issue of money comes up, Nigerians attack the National Assembly forgetting that this is a full arm of government. We oversight N10.6tn, we need facilities, gadgets and other things to get the job done, and that is the truth. “During the budget defence (sessions), you would find most of them (lawmakers) using hand fans because the central air-conditioning system is not working. People who come for public hearings go to their various offices to make use of the toilet and come back. The ACs are not working in some of the (committee) rooms and people use hand fans in a place like the National Assembly. Can you see that in Aso Rock (Presidential Villa)? Go to the ministries and see the kind of offices that they stay in.” Kalu also pointed out that the complex was being supervised by the FCDA. FERMA reportedly confirmed NECA’s position on its underfunding. It said its budgetary allocation for 2020 would not be enough. The Head of Communications and Public Relations, FERMA, Maryam Sanusi, was quoted as saying that the allocation was below what the agency required for road maintenance. Asked if the 2020 FERMA allocation would meet the demands for road maintenance, Sanusi replied, “Not at all.” She said besides road maintenance, FERMA’s capital expenditure included “but not limited to field office buildings, vehicle purchase and sundry equipment (light and heavy duty).” Also, Director of Information, National Assembly Abuja, Rawlings Agada, said that contrary to popular belief, the budgeted N37 billion, approved for the renovation of the National assembly complex may not be enough for the work. Agada said the complex is in complete ruins and that the assembly dome has been leaking for many years. He said: “That National Assembly needed a lot of work and I don’t think even that amount of money can take care of all those things because even the dome has been leaking and there is fear that if the repairs are not done, we might suffer greater problems in the future. “That is just that because I don’t have the details of the budget but I am aware that there is a lot that needs to be done”, he said. A public affairs analyst, Fred Ugochukwu, said unlike the bad National Assembly that Nigeria has been saddled with, the ideal for parliaments across the world is to meticulously stagger renovation works. “For the British parliament, renovation works at the Palace of Westminster, which was approved in 2018, will start in 2025 and will last for a minimum of 10 years, according the British government records. Likewise, renovation works at Canada’s Parliament Hills is expected to span 10 years – from 2018 to 2028. Similar remodelling works at Vienna’s Hofburg Palace in Austria are scheduled to span four years. Yet, these are some of the countries among the G7 – most developed economies of the world. The British and Canadian arrangement allows government to provide the source of funding and not incur debts,” he said. Another analyst, Semilore Afolayanka, said, “in a country that is rapidly acquiring the reputation of the poverty capital of the world, why would these people conclude that it is okay to spend N37 billion on some renovation of the National Assembly? How much does it cost to build a new one?” A writer, Muheez Adebayo could not hide his anger. “Despite the pressing issues at hand, renovation of the National Assembly is what they are concerned about and with such a huge amount of money. The money can be used for something resourceful. People are suffering, our economy is bad and what they deem fit is to renovate a complex. What a joke?” “I think the renovation of the National Assembly is the last thing in the mind of an average Nigerian”, said Marcus Kolawole, a businessman. He said: “Our leaders should please channel the little resources that we have to better the welfare of Nigerians and not renovating a building that was built for N7 billion during the late Abacha’s regime. This is lack of foresight”. A teacher, Oluwaremilekun Ojo, stated that the country is now under the watch of one of the most incorruptible leaders in history and whooping sum of N37 billion has been approved for just its mere renovation. “God please kindly have mercy on the masses and deliver us the hands of these leaders”, she lamented. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) described the N37 billion claimed to be for the renovation of the National Assembly complex as an unpardonable rip-off plot and a last straw of alleged corruption that pervades the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration. The party said it is indefensible for the Buhari Presidency to propose a whooping N37 billion for renovation work on the National Assembly complex, which was built at the cost of N7 billion. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, had said, “our party insists that the over 500 percent padding of the original construction cost is completely insupportable even with the prevailing costs and exchange rate regime, a development that has already spurred public outcry and apprehensions of plots to divert the fund for political interests of certain APC leaders. “The over bloated renovation figure is therefore not only sacrilegious but also further confirms that the APC-led administration is overtly corrupt and only out to steal, drain and divert our national resources for selfish purposes of certain individuals in the present administration.” A former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Senator Bala Mohammed (now Bauchi State governor), said on December 11, 2013, that the Federal Government had approved N40bn to renovate the National Assembly complex. He had disclosed this to State House correspondents after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by former Vice President Mohammed Namadi Sambo. The then minister explained that the council approved the memo he tendered for the award of contract for the construction of phase three, part three and upgrading of the two chambers of the National Assembly Complex. He said the contract was awarded to Julius Berger Plc at N40.238 billion with a completion period of 40 months. According to the minister, while the upgrading lasts, the committee rooms which are already available in the second phase of the National Assembly Complex will be used for plenary sessions. He said: “we are going to close down the two chambers of the National Assembly for the period of 12 months.” The then Senate Leader, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, also told journalists then that “the project is in the budget as approved by the National Assembly.” When asked last week by Sunday Independent whether he remembers the statement attributed to him on the N40b said to have been earlier earmarked for the renovation of National Assembly in the 2013 budget, Ndoma-Egba said: “I don’t remember making any comment like that. I don’t recall making any such statement. I don’t also remember whether any such amount was actually budgeted for the renovation of National Assembly in 2013. What I do remember, I think it was when Teslim Folarin was Senate Leader, and there was this talk of renovation. And they even sent a delegation to the German Parliament then to look at how modern Parliament look like. But I wasn’t part of it. I remember taking part in a meeting with Julius Berger, but it was merely to look at design and there was no figure attached to it. That’s all I remember. I participated in a meeting that reviewed the design of the proposed amendment, but there was no figure attached.” Asked further if there were renovations carried out in his time as Senate Leader before leaving the Red Chamber in 2015, he stated: “No renovation, but there were discussions that went on the nature of the renovations and the extent. But I don’t remember being privy to any costing of the renovation. I don’t remember any cost, any time we discussed how much it will cost. I don’t remember. It’s possible it was in the budget. It is possible, but I don’t remember.” Also asked if it could be that the N40b captured in the 2013 budget for the renovation of the complex was not released then, hence, the need for the current N37bn approved for the job, he replied: “As I have said, I don’t remember if any amount for the renovation of National Assembly was included in the (2013) budget or not. I say it is possible. So, whether money was released, I wouldn’t know, because the money would be released to FCDA and not to the National Assembly.” Against public outcry over the issue, the Senate reportedly described as misplaced and unwarranted, the public outcry against the leadership of the National Assembly. The acting Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, was reported to have said that the National Assembly leadership played no role either in the approval, the execution or the cost of the project. Akwashiki explained that Lawan and Gbajabiamila did the right thing by informing President Buhari, when the building was giving signs of an imminent collapse. He said, “The public outcry against the leadership of the National Assembly on the issue of the N37bn National Assembly complex renovation project is not only misplaced but unnecessary and unwarranted. “The building is the property of the Federal Capital Development Authority. The N37bn budget for its renovation is not even part of the 2020 budget of the National Assembly. “It is the responsibility of the leadership of the National Assembly to inform the President of the country about the state of the complex and the dangers that the dilapidated condition poses to users of the building. “The Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives have done what is expected of them by informing President of the country that the building was about to collapse. “It is the function of the FCDA, being owners of the complex, to invite experts and building technologists who will assess the condition of the building and come up with a realistic solution. “It is when they are convinced that the experts, based on their submissions, are capable of handling the project that contracts would be awarded, following due process. “They (FCDA management) will go through the public procurement process and ensure that the contractors are qualified to handle the job. “No amount is going to the account of the National Assembly from the N37bn earmarked for the renovation of the complex. “What then is the fault of the lawmakers or leadership of the National Assembly now? Is it because we allow the President to know that the building could collapse if not immediately fixed or what? “Should we allow it to collapse to avoid public outcry?  If the building collapses God forbid, the President of the country and the general public would blame the National Assembly leadership and management for not raising the necessary alarm to prevent its occurrence.” On the fact that many Nigerians have condemned the outrageous nature of the project cost, Akwashiki said, “It is the FCDA that knows what to do and how much it would cost to fix the deplorable condition of the building. “It is the executive arm of government that initiates projects, sends experts to do the estimate in terms of amount and materials needed. “The project is not the business of the National Assembly, so the public outcry against the leadership of the National Assembly is unwarranted,” he added. Majority of Nigerians are of the opinion that the N37 billion renovation budget should be reviewed downwards and inserted in the budget by installments, for over a period of 10 years. With this, they said there will be proper scheduling of the needed renovations at the complex, and that all such funds voted for renovation and replacement of furniture in the past should be audited and properly accounted for.