Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Our society is gradually becoming a citadel of injustice. It has become a society where people no longer enjoy their fundamental human right; a society where people are forced to do things against their will; a society where people have no other choice than to condole injustice in order to survive. Oppression, suppression and intimidation has become the order of the day due to injustice. Incidentally, when injustice last longer it gradually becomes a way of life, a tradition! people will no longer see anything wrong with it. That is exactly the stage where we are in our society today! Nobody is ready to speak out in the face of injustice. Worst still, those in power are trying to silent people through their so-called bill against hate speech. Hate speech is the product of hate action. You don’t beat a child and at the same ask the child not to cry out. The earlier we address the issue of injustice no matter where it is found, the better. According to Martin Luther King Jr, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” Injustice is a global problem and it has to be addressed with all seriousness irrespective of where it is coming from or who is affected. Charles Bukowski observed, “I guess the only time most people think about injustice is when it happens to them.” (Charles Bukowski, Ham on Rye). We don’t really need to wait until we experience injustice before we can start fighting for justice. The quest for justice should be the concern of all reasonable citizens. Injustice is one thing that is common everywhere. According to Thomas Jefferson “When injustice becomes law, resistance becomes duty.” One of the reasons why there is and resistance and in our own context, hate speech is because injustice has gradually become a law or if you like a bill. When injustice becomes a law it thrives everywhere. Unfortunately, there is injustice everywhere, even in places where we least expect to find it. We see injustice been perpetuated by those who are suppose to be the defender of justice and peace. It is a major problem facing our society today. We are living in a society where the rich are getting richer whereas the poor are getting poorer – this is injustice! a society where one has to pay through his or her nose before getting admission into higher institutions; a society where graduates are not getting job unless they have godfathers, a society where some lecturers sleep with students young enough to be their children before awarding them their grades,a society where men of God are impoverishing people in the name of seed sowing. The peak of injustice is to deny people of their fundamental human right. According to Samuel Johnson “Justice is my being allowed to do whatever I like. Injustice is whatever prevents my doing so.” Any society where people are not allowed to express themselves or at least do what they like is an unjust society. “A society where people are not even allowed to cry out, especially when they are marginalized is an unjust society. “A society, where young students pay through their nose before they could gain admission into the University is an unjust society. “A society where leaders impose themselves and their policies on the masses without seeking the opinion of the masses is an unjust society. “A society where soldiers are dying in the forest for lack of ordinary food and water is an unjust society. “A society where insecurity is the order of the day, where people’s lives and properties are not protected is an unjust society. A society were security agencies who were meant to protect people’s lives and property are now collecting bribe from drivers before they could allow them free of movement is an unjust society.  We can continue on and on. “ The list is infinite. In our quest for justice or a just society the question is where can we find a just society? Do we even have an just leader? There is only one just Leader. He name is Jesus. He is the Most Just Man the world has ever known. Today’s responsorial Psalm from Psalm 72 declares, “In his days justice shall flourish and great peace forever.” Our Lord Jesus Christ is coming to establish a kingdom of justice and peace. He is coming to establish a kingdom where people’s fundamental right will be respected, a kingdom where people will feel at home in their homeland; a kingdom where people are free to express themselves without intimidation, a kingdom where people will have equal right and access to the resources of the land; A kingdom where people will move freely with any police, soldiers or even kidnappers to harass them, a kingdom where people are not discriminated against because of their religion, tribe or nationality. A kingdom where people are rewarded or promoted base on merit and not base on whom they know. It is a kingdom of peace, love and unity. These and many other kingdom values can only be found in Christ Jesus. The Prophet Isaiah 11:1-10 presents our Lord Jesus Christ as a Just King. He is the only King that will reign with justice, peace and equity: “ There shall come forth a Rod from the [b]stem of Jesse, And a Branch shall [c]grow out of his roots. 2 The Spirit of the LORD shall rest upon Him, The Spirit of wisdom and understanding, The Spirit of counsel and might, The Spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the LORD. 3 His delight is in the fear of the LORD, And He shall not judge by the sight of His eyes, Nor decide by the hearing of His ears; 4 But with righteousness He shall judge the poor, And decide with equity for the meek of the earth; He shall strike the earth with the rod of His mouth, And with the breath of His lips He shall slay the wicked. 5 Righteousness shall be the belt of His loins, And faithfulness the belt of His waist.” These are the fruits of a just society. If the world should take the teaching of our Lord Jesus Christ serious then our society will be a citadel of justice and peace. Today’s Responsorial Psalm, from Psalm 72, presents our Lord Jesus Christ as the God of justice. The birth of Christ is the birth of justice. The era of justice will be established with the coming of Christ. Hence, the Psalmist declares, “In his days justice shall flourish and great peace forever. He shall rule from sea to sea, from the River to bounds of the earth.” During his reign, He will save the needy when they cry. He will deliver the poor and those who are helpless. He will have pity on the weak and the needy. And he will even save the lives of the needy. During his public ministry our Lord Jesus Christ confronted the system that was oppressing people. He did not spare those who were perpetuating injustice in the society. For instance he declares, “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and faith. These you ought to have done, without leaving the others undone.” Imagine, justice is among the weightier matters according to our Lord Jesus Christ. Yet, people are taking it for granted. Without justice there will be no peace! Without justice we can never win the war against insurgencies and terrorism. Justice is the only weapon that will bring hostility to an end. It is the only way forward. No one wants to be cheated. Every human being deserves some right and respect. And we know respect is reciprocal. Respect is the essence of justice. The more you respect people’s right the more your own right is respected.