Abuja – A bill which seeks legal backing for the provision of constituency projects in the annual budget of the federation by a minimum of 20 percent passed second reading on Wednesday on the floor of the Senate.
The bill titled, ‘A Bill for an Act to Provide for Constituency Projects in the Annual Budget of the Federation and for Other Matters Connected Therewith, 2019’, was sponsored by Stella Oduah.
Leading debate on the bill, the lawmaker said the intention of the bill was to ensure that good governance was delivered to the 70 percent of Nigerians who live in rural areas.
She said: “Constituency project, in recent time, is one of the ways to attract federal presence to our people.
“If not for these projects, majority of federal constituencies would not have a single federal project due to the lopsided nature of project allocation in the budget.
“While it is true that local government council has the responsibility of the development of local communities, the Federal Government has the overall responsibility of providing federal presence in these areas through developmental projects, and there is no way this can be delivered without the input of the parliamentarians who are the representatives of the people at the federal level.”
While noting that constituency projects were not peculiar to Nigeria, the lawmaker said there were similar mechanisms in other developing countries where it had been institutionalised.
“Instead of vilifying the National Assembly on the constituency projects, people should advocate for an institutional framework for the implementation of the constituency projects as it is the case in Kenya.
“This bill therefore is an attempt at providing both institutional and legislative framework for the operation of constituency projects in Nigeria, thereby making it part of our national budget,” Oduah said.
She added: “The constituency projects shall constitute 20% of the annual budget by ensuring that certain portion of the nation’s budget be set aside for rural development.”
The lawmaker explained that the number of projects to be included in the constituency project submission form shall be a minimum of five and a maximum of 20 for every constituency in each financial year.
“The provisions of this Act shall apply, as more specifically provided for in the Act, and shall ensure that specific portion of the federal annual budget is devoted to the constituencies for the purposes of infrastructural development, wealth creation, and the fight against poverty at the constituency level.
“The list of proposed constituency projects to be covered by this Act shall be submitted by the member of the National Assembly representing that constituency.
“The member shall submit the project proposal to the Appropriation Committee for input into the budget.
“The list of projects shall be submitted on Standard Constituency Projects submission form set out in the Schedule to this Bill.
“All projects to every constituency shall be listed in the form, together with the amount allocated to such project.
“For every project listed in the form, there shall be attached a Standard Project Description Form set out in the Schedule to this Act.
“Projects under this Act shall be community-based in order to ensure that the prospective benefits are available to a widespread cross-section of the inhabitants of a particular area.
“Any funding under this Act shall be for a complete project or a defined phase of a project and may include the acquisition of land and buildings.
“All projects shall be projects as defined under this Act and may include costs related to studies, planning, and design or other technical input for the project, but shall not include recurrent costs of a facility.”
In his contribution, the Senate Deputy Whip, Senator Sabi Abdullahi, who urged his colleagues to support the bill so as to correct misinformation and misinterpretation Nigerians have on constituency projects, noted that it was only through constituency projects that people in the rural areas felt the impact and presence of the Federal Government.
The bill was passed for second reading and referred to the Committee on Finance, which would report back in four weeks.