P/Harcourt – Several months after the tension-soaked election that brought the leadership of the 9th Senate, the former Senate Leader, Ali Ndume, has revealed that the election was “influenced by external forces”. Speaking at the thanksgiving service of Senator Barinada Mpigi at Saint Cyprian’s Anglican Church, Koroma Town, Tai Local Government Area, Rivers State on Sunday, Ndume said though the contest for the Senate leadership was fierce, he was not defeated. He said the election was manipulated by external forces who influenced the outcome. He described Senator Barinada Mpigi representing Rivers South-East Senatorial District as a trustworthy politician who does not swerve in the face of pressure from anywhere. Ndume praised the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, for being a courageous politician who works for the people, no matter the pressure. Meanwhile, Governor Wike used the occasion to describe himself as the luckiest politician that was assisted by God to overcome the onslaught of federal might during the 2019 elections. Speaking during the thanksgiving service, Wike said, “I am the luckiest politician who has always received God’s blessing. I don’t know how many people who have fought federal might and succeeded. “God fought for us during the last elections and we were victorious. That is why I will always support the Church. I will always continue to give thanks to God for His mercies.” Governor Wike reiterated that only God has the power to enthrone his successor in 2023. “I will not install my successor. It is God that will determine who will succeed me.  Only God has the power to install my successor. “However, I will fervently pray that my party succeeds in 2023. The insistence to plant a successor is mainly for selfish reasons. Everyone with the right capacity should come forward to tell Rivers people why they should vote him/her”, he said. He described Senator Barinada Mpigi as a dedicated politician who works hard to achieve results. Governor Wike said that he has worked closely with Senator Mpigi since 1999 because he is a trustworthy politician. He said that Mpigi has examined both PDP and APC, with the conclusion that PDP is the hope for Nigeria. He said despite the challenges confronting the PDP, the future of the country is secured under the leadership of the PDP. Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, who was represented by Senator Sandy Onoh, described Mpigi as a potent force for Ogoni, Rivers State and the South-South. Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, said members of the Senate were on ground to support their colleague to thank God for his electoral victory. He announced the contribution of the senators for the construction of the vicariate.