Temidayo Akinsuyi; Francis Onoiribholo Lagos / Benin City – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has stated that it was ready to conduct bye-elections into the seats of 14 lawmakers-elect recently declared vacant by the Edo State House of Assembly provided that the conditions spelt out in section 109 of the 1999 constitution were met. The electoral body confirmed that it had received official correspondence from the state House of Assembly on the suspended lawmakers. Rotimi Oyekanmi, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the commission’s chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, confirmed the development to Daily Independent on Thursday. He, however, said the commission was yet to take a decision on the letter. “The Independent National Electoral Commission has indeed received a letter from the Edo State House of Assembly on the issue of the suspended lawmakers.  However, the commission is yet to take a decision on the letter,” Oyekanmi said. Also speaking on whether INEC had a right to conduct bye-elections into the seats of the suspended lawmakers when they had not been recalled by their constituents, INEC said it was empowered to conduct a bye-election into a state House of Assembly provided the conditions spelt out in section 109 of the 1999 constitution of Nigeria were met. “INEC is empowered to conduct a bye-election into a state House of Assembly provided the conditions align with section 109 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended),” he said. INEC had earlier said it would obey any lawful resolution of the parliament as a law-abiding institution. “Unless there is a valid court order served on the commission, asking it to take an action or asking it to stay action on an issue, it is duty bound to obey any lawful pronouncement that is its responsibility,” it had said. It would be recalled that speaker of Edo State House of Assembly, Francis Okiye, had declared 14 seats of the absentee lawmakers-elect vacant, a development many believed was connected to the political crisis rocking the state. The 14 seats declared vacant were those of the 12 members-elect who were yet to present themselves for inauguration and two lawmakers that allegedly absconded after being inaugurated. Those whose seats were declared vacant are Chris Okaeben (Oredo West), Crosby Eribo (Egor), Washington Osifo (Uhunmwode), Ugiagbe Dumez (Ovia North East 1), Vincent Uwadiae (Ovia North East 11), Sunday Aghedo (Ovia South West), Victor Edoror (Esan Central), Emmanuel Agbaje (Akoko-Edo 11), Eric Okaka (Owan East), Micheal Ohio-Ezo (Owan West), Oshoma Ahmed (Estako Central), Kingsley Ugabi (Estako East), and Ehi Ekhosuehi (Oredo West). Okaka and Ekhosuehi were the two lawmakers whose seats were declared vacant for not meeting mandatory sitting requirement to continue as members of the House. The 12 members-elect and the two other lawmakers have been in Abuja since June and they have been demanding a fresh proclamation to be issued and another inauguration done. Reacting to the declaration of their seats vacant, one of the lawmakers-elect, Okaeben, said the speaker, Okiye, had no powers to make such pronouncement or ask INEC to conduct bye-elections. Okaeben stated that Edo, currently, had no House of Assembly as spelt out by the Nigeria constitution. He said the House had not formed a quorum. “They want us to toe the path of violence but we have said nobody’s blood is worth a seat in the Assembly. We will pursue our case in a constitutional way. We have no problem with Governor Obaseki since he said he has issued a proclamation,” he said. Few days ago, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State also asked INEC to withdraw certificates of return from the 14 members-elect. It said the refusal/neglect by the members-elect to subscribe to the oath of membership/allegiance with respect to the affected constituencies throughout the first session and first quarter of the 7th Assembly of Edo State amounted to abdication of office The PDP said the right thing for INEC to do was to withdraw the affected members’ certificates of return since they had failed or neglected to sit in the House they were elected into. This was contained in a letter addressed to chairman of INEC, Professor Mahmoud Yakubu, and signed by Chikaodinaka Adindu, on behalf of the PDP and its candidates for the House of Assembly election. The PDP, however, kicked against the call for fresh elections in the constituencies by Speaker Frank Okiye. It said state resources should not be wasted in conducting fresh elections where there were 1st runners up in the concluded elections and more so where the affected members-elect did not subscribe to the oath of membership/allegiance. INEC Gets Memo To Fill Vacant Edo Assembly Seats Meanwhile, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo has insisted that there is no division in Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), noting that all those working to destabilise the party would be shown the way out. He also said that INEC will soon fix a date for election into the House of Assembly for seats declared vacant. Obaseki spoke at a gathering of APC members from Owan East and West local government areas in Sabongida-Ora, Owan West LGA. The governor said the APC in the state is united, strong, and formidable, stressing that members of Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) are not members of the APC. The governor said: “Members of the EPM are trying to frustrate the good plans we have for Edo people as their plan is to burn markets and government buildings. Their intention is to discredit our administration but the people of Edo know better. “APC is one party; those that say they are in EPM are not APC, including their national chairman whom we have suspended in Edo State. “Those mistakenly elected into Edo State House of Assembly who are members of EPM have been thrown out and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is aware and will soon announce date for a fresh election, where we would have opportunity to elect credible representatives who will represent us in the House.” He continued: “Any person doing anti-party activities, President Muhammadu Buhari has asked us to deal with them. We have been told to go back to organise our party; that’s why we are here. “As a ruling party in the state, we have done a lot for Edo people, moving the state forward progressively but EPM are afraid of progress and will do anything to ensure we don’t get another term.” Governor Obaseki said his administration is achieving a lot in agriculture in the state, as his government would soon commence work on the Sobe-Sabongida-Ora road. “Go to Sobe, we have just started harvesting corn. I have told the contractor to start work on the Sobe-Sabongida-Ora road. In that road alone, I want to do 5,000 hectares of cassava farm; I am a governor for development. “The support here today is massive and it speaks volume, further showing that the suspended national chairman’s antics will not work. He no longer has the support of Edo people. “The act of trying to create faction of APC in Edo State can’t work; we are still intact, strong and united. Our politics in Edo State is transparent and can’t tolerate any act of dubiousness. If you are a progressive, you must be a real progressive,” he added. The chairman of Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State, Hon. Frank Ilaboya, commended the governor for his developmental strides in the state, assuring that the people of Owan-West LGA would not negotiate his second term ambition. Also, the LGA chairman for Owan-East LGA, Hon. Andy Osegwue, said the people were behind Governor Obaseki because of his uncommon achievements in Edo State. The APC leader in Owan West LGA, Hon. Peter Eguaboi, appealed to the governor to help reconstruct the Sobe-Sabongida-Ora, Afuze- Era, Ozala-Afuze and Era-Warake roads, while his counterpart in Owan East, Alhaji Ganiyu Lawani, said the people of Owan East and West are united and will give the governor all their votes. The host, Sir Tony Ezekiel, an APC leader in the area, said though he was intimidated out of the state four years ago, he had now returned to join hands with the governor to develop the state. He said: “Obaseki is doing well in developing the state; I have gone around and seen the work of the governor. “He has developed the agricultural and educational sectors; trained teachers and civil servants; constructed roads and done a lot of other things to make life better for Edo people. We will support him all the way.”