ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Adminstration (FCTA) has put an effective and pre-emptive machinery in place to apprehend pilgrims who may want  to abscond from Israel to other countries, the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has said. She gave this hint when she came to bid the first batch of FCT pilgrims farewell at the Nnamdi Azikwe Airport, Abuja. Aliyu, who was represented by the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa, added that those who intend to use the opportunity for criminal purposes would also not be spared as they would be made to face the full wrath of the law. Her words: “I will like to state categorically that for those who may be thinking of absconding once in the Holy Land, the Federal Capital Temitory Administration (FCTA), has put an effective and pre-emptive machinery in place to apprehend those who might be planning to use the opportunity of travelling to Jerusalem to abscond to other countries. “It is my prayer that this pilgrimage will be a unique and unforgettable experience for you all, hoping you return home Joyful and strengthened in faith. “I want you to also consider your trip to the Holy Land as a privilege and a special favour from God because many more people had similar plans to travel but have not succeeded as you have done. You should therefore not take this trip for granted but make the best use of all the opportunities it presents,” he stressed. Aliyu therefore urged pilgrims to pray fervently for the peace, unity, and prosperity of Nigeria and the FCT. She also noted that the Director, FCT Christian Pilgrims Welfare Board and their own  independent verification of same on ground, they are satisfied that the Board has done its best to ensure a successful pilgrimage. “Nonetheless, it is now your responsibility as pilgrims to understand the sensitive nature of the obligation you are about to undertake,” she said. She reiterated that pilgrims were expected to come back to be sterling examples of Christians in your family, community, places of work and in the country at large, portraying Christ-like attitudes which will showcase good values of your faith.