A total of 45 registered political parties in Nigeria, under the aegis of Equity Group, are currently in alliance to ensure that an Igbo man is elected president of Nigeria in 2023. National leader of the group, Frank Igbobuike, who disclosed this in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital, on Monday, said they have resolved to form a mega political party to ensure that an Igbo man is elected president of Nigeria in 2023. Igbobuike, who is also the National Chairman of People’s Democratic Movement (PDM), said the national chairmen of the 45 political parties are all involved. He said for the sake of unity, equity and fairness, it is incumbent on all other geopolitical zones to support 2023 Igbo presidency. He disclosed that they are already working on the memorandum of understanding for the merger of the 45 political parties and in no distant time, they would become one mega political party. His words: “Equity Group stands for a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction in 2023. “The Equity Group is founded by 45 national chairmen of registered political parties and they found me fit to be their national leader. “What we are saying is that nearly all the zones have produced President of this country and they have always used the zoning formula as the metric stick in determining where the presidency should go to. “And we think that at this time in our political history, we should be in the position to have the South-East produce the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “As a matter of fact, we have 92 registered political parties in the country and we are 45 registered political parties in the group. You can see the numbers we have. “We are saying that an Igbo man should be the next president of this country. And we are ready to surrender the platforms we have for a mega party. In other words, the 45 registered political parties are ready to merge into one, as time goes ahead. “In fact, we have done the memorandum of understanding and in a very short possible time, you found out that there might be nothing like PDM again. We will come up with a new name. “The 45 registered political parties will merge and become one. We feel that coming together in one platform will help in no small measure in persuading the voice of the people within the six geopolitical zones to listen to our cry that for unity, equity and fairness, the presidency should go to an Igbo man come 2023. “We are not seeing it as a small project and God’s willing, we shall succeed”. Meanwhile, the state chairman of PDP, Nwebonyi Onyekachi, confirmed the statement made by National leader of Equity Group, Igbobuike, adding that PDP was involved in the alliance.