LAGOS – After much apprehension and speculations as to whether the appointment of Babatunde Fowler, Chairman of Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) would be renewed, President Muhammadu Buhari on Mon- day, fired the FIRS boss and immediately appointed Muhammad Nami, a tax consultant, as the new head of the revenue agency. Prior to the expiration of Fowler’s tenure in office, which ended on Sunday, December 8, 2019, there have been suspicions that President Buhari would not renew his (Fowler) appointment for reasons many political watchers believed were very glaring. Some analysts argued that the refusal of the president to renew Fowler’s appointment is as a result of his relationship with the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who was believed to have facilitated the appointment of Fowler in conjunction with the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Aswaju Bola Tinubu. Fowler was appointed on August 20, 2015 but was confirmed by the Senate on December 9, 2015. One of the major indicators that the former FIRS boss was not going to retain his job, was when he was queried by the presidency on the tax collection variations and remittances by the agency for the period covering 2015 to 2018. The presidency, had noted in the query that there were variances between budgeted collections and the actual collections made by the agency. The Chief of Staff to President Buhari, Abba Kyari, in the letter, questioned the inability of the agency to meet revenue target since Fowler was appointed in 2015. The presidency said in the query that it “observed significant variances between the budgeted collections and actual collections for the period 2015 to 2018.” However, in his response to the query, Fowler blamed oil market crisis for the shortfalls in tax revenues. He also blamed the period of recession for the shortfalls in tax collection. He agreed that actual tax collection since the beginning of President Buhari’s administration was lower than the 2012-2014 period under former president, Goodluck Jonathan, in general terms. Regardless, Fowler told the presidency that FIRS under him had performed better regarding specific non-oil tax types, such as VAT and CIT. A source close to the presidency on Monday, disclosed that the query, which was issued to Fowler few months ago when his tenure was almost coming to an end had shown that he was not going to be reappointed. According to the source, “When that query was issued, we knew it was a goodbye note to Fowler. At that point, we knew his tenure would not be renewed. Even though he (Fowler) to defend himself by claiming to have achieved a lot, getting a query like that from the presidency few days to the expiration of his first term is a confirmation that his performance is not satisfactory, and he failed to meet or exceed target that was set for him.” A former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Timi Frank, had in September alleged that the Vice President, with the knowledge of Fowler, took a sum of N90billion from the FIRS to execute and sponsor the 2019 general elections, an allegation that was later denied by the office of Prof. Osinbajo. This issue was said to have led to why Fowler was actually queried because sources inside the presidency told DAILY INDEPENDENT that Abba Kyari became furious when the N90bil- lion issue came up and demanded from Osinbajo what the money was used for. In September, one Stanley Okwara dragged the FIRS boss to a Federal High Court sitting in Kano for overstaying his tenure as the Chairman of FIRS. In the case with suit number FHC/KN/CS/141/2019 presided over by Justice Lewis Allagoa, the plaintiff sought to know whether the continued stay of Fowler in office “was not illegal” having regard to the combined provisions of sections of the FIRS (Establishment) Act, 2007. It was gathered that some forces within the Villa, who by all means wanted Fowler out of office, were behind the litigation. “They sponsored one lawyer to approach the court because they were no longer comfortable with his continued stay in office. They believe that Fowler’s loyalty was not to the president but to Osin- bajo and Asiwaju Tinubu. That was why they wanted him out by all means. They have been able to achieve their aim and now the president has replaced him with another northerner, which was what they wanted from the start. They always prefer their people in those key positions. They nev- er wanted Fowler from onset,” a source close to the vice president office told our correspondent on Monday. A group, Concerned Staff of FIRS, had in June, petitioned the president over what they termed the atrocities and infractions al- legedly perpetrated by Fowler. In an open letter, the group advised President Buhari not to re-appoint Fowler because the FIRS boss had “unimaginably taken it back to the old dark pe- riod of inefficient and ineffective days.” It also recommended that the activities of Fowler from the day he was appointed up to his last day in office should be investigated and brought to book for all infractions he had committed while holding sway as the Executive Chairman of FIRS. The group wrote, “One would have expected that his appointment would improve the hallmark achievements he met on the ground but the reverse is the case. The first seven months of his tenure as the chief executive of FIRS has led to a series of abuse/violation of laid down processes and procedures, a flagrant disobedience to established rules, policies and laws, a total disrespect to the leadership in various coordinating groups, departments and other positions within the service and a total collapse of the entire system. “The noble and professional institution (FIRS) which was left behind by his predecessors has completely been politicized and has now become a Mecca or Jerusalem of some sorts to poli- ticians and parasitic contractors. “This rascality was further heightened by the claim that the current Vice President is his (Fowler’s) friend and a school mate and for this reason, he could abuse the due process and get away with it. In saner climes, his relationship with the vice president must propel him to respect all known processes, procedures, laws and constituted authority while discharging his duties and responsibilities as a public officer who would be held accountable for his actions and inactions. Sadly enough, the reverse is the case in FIRS.” Other allegations against the FIRS boss included extravagant weekly spending on concerts and parties in Lagos, Port Harcourt and other major cities within and outside Nigeria, frivolous donations to organizations while staff entitlements for official engagements would take a long time to settle. The FIRS staff claimed that Fowler had got away with what it termed corporate and institutional lies about FIRS performance, adding that while Fowler announced N1.5 trillion as tax revenue in the first quarter of the year, the sum of N1.07 trillion was the actual collection for the same period. There were also claims that kickbacks from the consultants were shared among Fowler, Tinubu and the Vice President. “Anyone who has been fol- lowing the game from day one would understand that it was just meant to rubbish Tinubu and Osinbajo, and to make the FIRS the exclusive preserve of northerners. This plot is being heavily funded by some persons, including a former governor of Lagos State, who missed out in the recent ministerial appointments. The ex-governor, alongside a top shot in the Asset Management Commission of Nigeria, AMCON, have so far expended billions to see either of them take Fowler’s job and they are bent on sacrificing competence for selfish and clannish interest,” another source revealed. Reacting to the issue on Mon- day, former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, noted that his prediction that Fowler was going to be edged out of office and replaced with a northern Muslim had come to fruition. In a post on his verified Twitter handle, Fani-Kayode wrote, “Finally Fowler of FIRS is out and, just as I predicted, he has been replaced by a northern Muslim. When will Tinubu and Osinbajo finally accept that they were outflanked, outmanouvered, fooled and scammed into betraying their own people by the Fulani cabal. More to come!”