Plans are in top gear for the unveiling of the landmark real estate development project called Central City Project on Thursday in Osogbo by the Osun State Government.
Architect Muyiwa Ige, the Director General, Osun New Towns and Growth Areas Development Authority, who disclosed this in a media chat in Lagos, said the unveiling is a demonstration of the readiness of the Osun State Government under the leadership of Governor Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola at showcasing the economic potentials of the State to the entire World.
His words: “I am pleased to inform you that the State Government’s efforts are already yielding fruitful results with the event of the formal unveiling
“Our agency Osun New Towns and Growth Areas Development Authority over time has been spare heading and indeed implementing Government Policies with regards to urban renewal and creation of new cities. In this direction the agency is currently recording resounding success on Oranmiyan New Town and Ilesha New Town project.
On New Town Projects, development partners are currently in working with the State Government through Osun New Towns and Growth Areas Development Authority in areas of provision of Infrastructure at Zero Cost to Government and that the agency has been able to allocate service plot of land to numerous applicants, contributed to the Internally Generated Revenue of the State and provision of Infrastructure equally ongoing.
“The Central City Project was initiated and proposed by one of our development partner, Akbeeb Investment Limited. The project is expected to be delivered within a period of five years with massive Infrastructural development solely funded by the private sector on a Public Private Partnership arrangement.
The project is divided in to three sections. The first section is the industrial hub which will attract investors through incentives which are designed to solve the problem of industrialisation in Nigeria, some of those incentives include uninterrupted power supply, power subsidy, tax incentives, partnership for sourcing raw materials and off taking industrial product etc.
The project site has rail station which makes movement of goods and passengers easy. Industrial Infrastructure like road, drainage, water among others shall be provided .The second and third sections are the farm settlement and residential development respectively.
“We have the full cooperation and support of the Commissioner and Special Adviser to the Governor in the ministry Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives as well as Managing Director Osun Land Bank Authority in ensuring the successful implementation of the project”, Ige added.
The agency shall equally work with all other relevant ministries, departments and agencies of government to ensure the success of this project.