LAGOS  – The Association of Nigerian Chartered Architects (ANCA) has requested that the body of architects should come together as one to mandate its regulatory body, ARCON on certain issues of concern in architecture practice in Nigeria as well as call them to question. According to Emmanuel Omatsone, ANCA president, its high time ARCON stands its ground to bring architecture to where it should be in Nigeria with the support of all the stakeholders. He made the statement at the end of year party of the association which held at Unilag recently. “There is need for so many associations so that so many potholes that exist in the family of the association can be easily filled. In so many countries of the world, there are several architecture associations and all of them have their own corporate affairs certificate. ‘Architecture in this country has failed because we did not allow the regulator to do its assignment. We make too much cultism out of architecture. There is need to break this kind of cultism of retrogression and obsolesce.” While responding to the issue of foreign incursion in the profession, Oladipupo Ajayi, ARCON president noted that there was no need for anybody who is sure of himself to be worried about foreign incursion. He advised that all that is needed is for people to know what they were doing and be sure of themselves. As a person, he maintained that he doesn’t worry about foreign incursion. Ajayi reminded guests of some of the reasons why associations were formed, these he said, included promotion of standards, friendship, wealth creation and sharing of knowledge. Once you forget that, he said, they will become unnecessarily aggressive and have imaginary enemies. “Encourage your members to get registered. We came all the way down here to ensure that the future of your generation is guaranteed. The conditions we put in place is such that nobody will be able to tamper with it. I can assure you that we will leave it better than we met it. “We are embracing so many people from so many angles and I can assure you that architecture is going to be a larger family as soon as possible. You are first and foremost here because you are architects.” Ayoola Onajide, president of the Association of Consulting Architects of Nigeria (ACAN) pleaded that all associations work together as well as talk about their ability to design. They should be talking about the works of architecture and how architects should be given awards for designs and not awards for just being members of the association, he said. “If you don’t give them credit for the works they do, I think it has no meaning. I will like to work with this association – ANCA. If you are not able to make money, you will become embittered. If you are not making money and you are an association, you are wasting everybody’s time and I think there is a place for everybody.” Speaking on the essence of forming ANCA, Prof Joseph Igwe revealed that they found out that people were not mentored and that without mentorship, there was no how they could move forward.