ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday dismissed President Muhammadu Buhari’s birthday declaration to bequeath a legacy of free and fair elections, as diversionary posturing, which cannot sway Nigerians to place trust in the present administration as far as elections are concerned. Challenging President Buhari to back his promises with action, PDP said his declaration should also include a presidential order for the immediate prosecution of those who killed during the Kogi and Bayelsa states governorship elections. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that President Buhari cannot claim to be committed to free and fair election after he refused to sign the amendment to the Electoral Act and had continue to endorse the outcome of bloody and manipulated governorship elections that occurred in Bayelsa, Kogi, Kano, Ekiti, Osun as well as the 2019 general election, in which he and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), were huge beneficiaries. “Furthermore, Mr. President cannot rightly assert a commitment to electoral reform when he congratulated all beneficiaries of past flawed elections, while his administration failed to take any decisive step to bring known riggers and perpetrators of violence in these elections to book. “Our party notes that penance is a process from which a President is not forbidden. However, we invite Mr. President to note that the true electoral reform, which our nation requires today, goes beyond mere verbal posturing. He needs to openly support the strengthening of our electoral laws and the decisive application of the provisions thereof,” the party said. The PDP tasked President Buhari to demonstrate that commitment for free, fair and credible electoral process by immediately returning the Electoral Act amendment bill to the National Assembly for accelerated consideration with a commitment from him to sign it into law upon passage. “The demonstration of this birthday declaration should also include a presidential order for the immediate prosecution of the killers of Mrs. Salome Abu and all those killed in the last Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections.”