LAGOS – The Executive Secretary/CEO, Nigeria Shippers’ Council (NSC), Mr Hassan Bello, has said the adoption of functional ‘Single Window’ process for the Maritime Industry will eradicate all manual processes that give room for corruption and delay in the release of cargo from the ports. Mr Bello, who spoke during the 20th anniversary event of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) in Lagos, maintained that the Single Window would give rise to competitiveness in the maritime industry. Speaking through his representative, Mrs Selin Ifeora , Deputy Director, Monitoring and Enforcement, Nigeria, the Shippers’ Council boss disclosed that establishing a single window in the country which would enabled the nation succeed in whatever it had been doing in the Ports, was long overdue. According to him, “All countries in West Africa adopted Single Window processes with exception of Nigeria, adding that Cotonou (Republic of Benin) after adopting the Single Window, witnessed 38% increase in revenue generation. “Single window is an electronic platform where information where information/documents can be lodged and this helps in simplifying, standardising and harmonising our process and procedure. “It is about facilitation of trade, simplifying processes to eradicate manual process which brings about delays and human contact, transacting business without seeing anybody,” he stressed. He decried that today Nigeria Ports were still having so many problems ranging from non-functional ‘scanners’, corrupt practices, increase in the cargo dwelling time in Nigeria Ports of between 22 and 23 days whereas in Cotonou, it is seven days. Bello, however, urged NAGAFF members to be committed and dedicated in their activities, as well as work with the Federal Government to see to the realisation of Single Window, while pledging their continued assistance and support to NAGAFF. Dr. Boniface Aniebonam, Founder of National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), in his address, remarked that trade and commerce were the critical mass in nation building and development, stressing that the importance of Freight Forwarding could nt be over-emphasised since they were the vehicle of conveyance Aniebonam pointed out that the struggle for the enthronement of best practices in the business of freight forwarding had been successful, adding that it would help bin adopting global standard. He urged NAGAFF members to make use of the Single Window opportunity created by the African Continental Free Trade Agreement Regime, as well as in the next two decades, expand their door – to -door networking beyond West and Central African Sub-region to global competitiveness.