Chief Simon Okeke, is a former Chairman, Police Service Commission Chairman.In this interview with PERCY ONYEJEKWE, he spoke on the agitations for Igbo presidency in 2023 among other issues . Excerpts: Junaid Mohammed, a Northern opinion leader some time ago told a section of the press that North would not vote for Igbo in 2023 even as he said earlier that Igbo could not be trusted as they pitted themselves against the rest of the country. What do you have to say about this? Does Junaid Mohammed constitute the North? It is a minority opinion. Who is Junaid Mohammed? Who is he to talk for the North? To say that Igbos are not united? On what grounds does he have the authority to say that kind of thing? I will tell you Igbos are more united than any other part of the country.Some people decided to use the press to fan the ember of disunity among the Igbos.If there is any group who can speak with one voice and act in one direction, it is the Igbos. Igbos are very very united.It is only the Igbo that said let us stay at home and remember our dear ones who lost their lives during the civil war, and it was done. Tell, no other part of the country can do that. Igbos have always acted in unison with the North since Independence. Never mind these days many a number of people who do not read history speak as they like and Junaid Mohammed must be one of them.Junaid Mohammed is too young to know the history of this country, or to know the true pattern or nature of Ndi Igbo. He is too unqualified to hold such an opinion about Ndi Igbo , to pass such a judgement on Ndi Igbo. Who is he to decide for the North whether they will vote for Ndi Igbo or not in 2023?. It is baseless. It is a totally baseless opinion, and it should be disregarded. To say that Igbos should tell Nigerians what they intend to do with power when they get it is nonsensical. And by the way, the kind of statement Junaid Mohammed made is allegedly hate speech which is punishable. Nigerians should take note of that because it is against the spirit of one Nigeria and it negates the unity of this country. That kind of statement fans the ember of disunity in Nigeria and should not not be allowed. Igbos are known to be supportive of other groups’ ambitions in Nigeria to attain the presidency while holding the thought that they could never make it themselves. What is your view on this? Let me tell you , there is no single ethnic group in this country that is capable of voting itself into power. It is a matter of negotiation. Igbos should interface with other states or ethnic groups to attain their ambition. And that is what we are doing now. We are engaging in serious deliberation and discussions with other ethnic groups. We are deliberation with South -South, South West, Middle Belt, and of course you know there is a serious engagement, forum going on now- Southern and Middle Belt Forum of which I, by the grace of God, am a member. It is a very powerful organization, anchored in Abuja , in the house of E.K Clark who leads the South South and Ayo Adebanjo who leads the South West and Chief Barrister Nnia Nwodo, President –General Ohaneze Ndi Igbo leading the South East to the meeting ,the Middle Belt led by Dan Suleiman and Bitrus. The meeting is formidable. And it is one way to start. If there is an agreement between the South and Middle Belt, It is a negotiating point. From there you move on to the far North. By the grace of God, we will get it. One factor militating against Igbo political ambition of attaining the presidency is the presence of IPOB which detests every Nigeria stands for. Does it not worry you sir? Well IPOB is led by Nnamdi Kanu. He is a young man. He is entitled to his own opinion but I don’t agree with some of the things he is saying. He is entitled to say what he wants to say. To some extent, he is justified to go the way he is going. Our people say that you can’t beat a child and stop him from crying. It is clear from all angles that Igbos are not reckoned with by the present government. So, it is a reaction from him and his group about the exclusion of Ndi Igbo in the present government, a thing that has never happened before in Nigerian history. I mean it is wrong that for the entire security architecture of this country , for the first time that a powerful, vibrant ethnic group like Ndi Igbo is not represented . It makes nonsense of the whole thing.If it is one-sided the system cannot work .So in that extent Nnamdi Kanu is justified to cry out of justice. So in this case he is justified to say what he is saying . But there is a limit one can go. For instance saying there shall be no election or there shall be no census. That is rubbish. Two years ago or thereabout ,he was saying there should be no election in Anambra State. That is rubbish. To achieve what? If you say there will be no election, there would be state of emergency declared in Anambra State. Will that be better for us? Certainly not. So there must be a limit to which one can agitate. What I am saying is that one has to take what Nnamdi Kanu is saying with a pinch of salt. IPOB is protesting against injustice and they are free to do that.But there is a limit. The Senate recently rose up against Marginalization of Igbo in the police force. Will this marginalization thing not affect Igbo Chances in 2023? Nigeria since its birth is known to be standing on a tripod.Tripod means three legs. As of today, one leg is broken and until that leg is mended there will be no stability in the country.That is one thing that everybody should know. A whole group of more than 60 million people, ethnic group cannot be written away like that. Unless and until it is put right, problem will continue to attend to issues in the present government. I am calling on the present administration to right the wrongs that have been done to the Igbos. Give each group its share of the national heritage, otherwise there will not be peace. 