TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, TITILOPE JOSEPH, AKINWUNMI KING; SAMUEL OGIDAN; PASCHAL NJOKU; JIDE OYEKUNLE;UCHE NWOSU LAGOS / ABUJA / UMUAHIA – Pressure from the international community, especially the United States government, forced the Federal Government to order the release of former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd.), and con­vener of the #Revolution Now movement, Omoyele Sowore, from detention on Tuesday, Daily Independent has gath­ered. Dasuki has been in deten­tion since December 29, 2015, while
Sowore was arrested on August 3. There was no word on Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, who
has also been in detention since December 2015. Credible sources in the presidency told Daily Inde­pendent
that Mary Leonard, the US Ambassador to Nige­ria, and her deputy brokered
the deal for the duo’s release after their meeting with Vice President Yemi
Osinbajo and Abubakar Malami, the Attor­ney-General and Minister of Justice. According to our source, “The truth is that Dasuki and
Sowore’s release was brokered by the Americans. The US ambassador to Nige­ria
and her deputy met with Vice President Yemi Osinba­jo and Malami and prevailed
on them to plead with Presi­dent Muhammadu Buhari to obey court orders and
release them,” he said. Earlier, the United States Congress had written to AGF
Malami, where it expressed concern about the continued detention of Omoyele
Sowore by the Department of State Services (DSS). The lawmakers said Ni­geria risks tarnishing its in­ternational
reputation over Sowore’s indefinite detention and that “it will best serve Ni­geria’s
interests to protect and uphold the very legal systems that provide for
stability and open dialogue. “We request that you take immediate steps to… work to
facilitate a speedy and fair res­olution to the current circum­stances of his
re-detention; and ensure that he receives a legally sound and credible trial,
consistent with Nige­ria’s established judicial pro­ceedings and the rulings
that follow,” US lawmakers, Robert Menendez, Charles Schum­er, Christopher
Coons, Cory Booker, Bill Pascrell and Josh Gottheimer, said in a letter to
Nigeria’s Attorney-General and Justice Minister Abuba­kar Malami. The American lawmak­ers, however, said the govern­ment’s
actions are contrary to the values of a democratic country which include “ap­plication
of prosecutorial powers and actions, as well as the ultimate compliance with
judicial rulings.” The US lawmakers stated that Nigeria must work to up­hold
the basic human rights of its citizens including their freedom of expression
and political affiliation. “Nigeria has an opportuni­ty and responsibility to serve as
a model for following the established rule of law under its own constitution.” The lawmakers said Mala­mi’s adherence to facilitating
genuine progress toward re­spect for the rule of law will continue to pave the
way for closer ties between the Unit­ed States and Nigeria for eco­nomic
growth, development and security cooperation. FG Orders Release Of Sambo Dasuki, Sowore Abubakar Malami on Tuesday ordered the Depart­ment of State
Services (DSS) to release Dasuki and Sowore. Malami said government took the decision after re­viewing
the pending charges preferred against them by the Federal Government. “Whilst the Federal High Court has exercised its dis­cretion
in granting bail to the defendants in respect of the charges against them, I am
also not unmindful of the right of the complainant/ prosecution to appeal or
further challenge the grant of bail by the court having regards to extant legal
pro­visions, particularly section 169 of the Administration of Criminal Justice
Act, 2015”, the AGF said. However, Malami said his office had chosen to comply with
the court orders while considering the pursuit of its rights of appeal and/or
re­view of the order relating to the bail as granted or varied by the courts. The AGF opined that “in line with the provisions of sections
150(1) of the 1999 constitution (as amended), and in compliance with the bail
granted to Col. Sambo Da­suki (rtd.) (as recently varied by the Court of
Appeal) and the bail granted to Omoyele Sowore, I have directed the State
Security Services to comply with the order grant­ing bail to the defendants and
effect their release”. In a statement on Tuesday, Malami held that “the two
defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engag­ing
in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as
their on­going trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of
the land”. He, therefore, reiterated the utmost regard his office has
for the entire judicial structure of Nigeria. “This administration re­mains unrelenting in deep­ening the
rule of law and the administration of justice in general”, the AGF stated. Recall that Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal, on July
4, granted bail to the em­battled former NSA Dasuki, in the sum of N100 million
and two sureties in like sum just as it awarded a fine of N5 million against
the DSS for breach of his fundamental right. The appellate court held that the detention of Dasuki by DSS
since December 29, 2015 “is illegal, unlawful and un-constitutional”. The two sureties, accord­ing to the Court of Appeal, shall
be serving public ser­vants not below the status of level 16 officers in either
state or public service of the federal or any of its agencies and shall produce
valid docu­ments of status to the regis­trar of the Federal High Court in
Abuja. Each surety must be resi­dent within the jurisdiction of the
High Court and other physical address must be ver­ified by the court registrar
as well as must produce two recent passport size photo­graphs in addition to
depos­ing to affidavit of means. The court held that the sureties must show evidence of
ownership of property in the Federal Capital Territory worth N100 million. The order was made by a three-man panel led by Jus­tice
Tinuade Akomolafe- Wil­son. In a unanimous decision, the appellate court also held that
the fundamental right of Dasuki was breached by the prolonged detention without
trial contrary to the provi­sions of the 1999 constitution. In the lead judgment, Jus­tice Akomolafe-Wilson, held that
the DSS and its Director General acted outside their constitutional powers
follow­ing Dasuki’s long period of the detention. The appeal court also or­dered that the DSS and its Director
General should not detain Dasuki again and that whenever he is required on any
allegation, it must be conducted within the working days and from 9a.m to 6p.m
for him to go home. More so, the court directed that the international pass­port
of the former NSA shall remain with the deputy chief register of the High Court
for the time being. Recall that Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court Abuja, had on July 2, 2018, admitted Dasuki to bail on conditions the NSA com­plained to be stringent for his family to perfect especially deposit of N100 million to the court’s registrar by his sure­ties before he can be released
on bail. Consequently, the appeal court had to set aside the “harsh
and stringent bail conditions”. Sowore and his co-accused, Olawale Bakare are standing trial
on a 16-count charge bor­dering on treasonable felony, money laundering etc. They pleaded not guilty and were granted bail in the sum of
N100 million and N30 million, respectively. The DSS had refused to re­lease them on bail even after they
met their bail condition, forcing Justice Ijeoma Ojuk­wu to issue a 24 hours
order for their release. However, Sowore was re-arrested on December 6, shortly after
he was released on bail by the DSS over a yet to be disclosed offence. Buhari Deserves Impeachment Not Commendation — CUPP Following the release of Dasuki and Sowore, the Coa­lition
of United Political Par­ties (CUPP) said President Bu­hari deserves to be impeached
rather than commended for the decision. The CUPP wondered if Bu­hari was now the court of law that
decides who gets released or not. In a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugo­chinyere,
the group said: “You (President Buhari) deserve impeachment not commenda­tion
for ordering the release of Sowore and Dasuki after ignoring valid court orders
for their release, and present­ing Nigeria as a lawless mon­key-like Republic
where the rule of law is dead. “Buhari’s attempt to turn himself into executive su­preme
leader and apex judi­ciary head by deciding who gets released after valid court
orders shall be resisted and fought bumper to bumper as year 2020 starts. “We are now living at the mercy of a democratic emper­or,
who decides who gets bail despite court orders. “The order for the release is an indictment and a useless
order that has no place in con­stitutional governance. “The president, by that order, has confirmed that he has
been obstructing justice and disrespecting the courts and should be condemned
by all Nigerians. Nigeria is a na­tion of laws and not a private estate of an
emerging demo­cratic dictator.” In a related development, the minority leader of the Senate,
Enyinnaya Abaribe, urged the presidency to go the whole hog and release other
detainees whom the courts had granted bail. Speaking against the back­drop of the release of Dasuki and
Sowore, Abaribe said the presidency must seize the mo­mentum and release the
rest. The lawmaker, in a state­ment by his Media Adviser, Uchenna
Awom, said that although the release was en­couraging, yet the presiden­cy must
go the whole hog and release other detainees facing similar fate, such as
Shiite leader, Sheikh El-Zakzaky. He said: “The presidency must seize the momentum and release
the rest; they must not be seen to be selective or acting on impulse. Again,
the Federal Government must now respect and adhere to the rule of law at times. “It is becoming obvious that the country may face certain
isolation from the international community if the government continues to
disregard valid court orders.” SERAP Demands Unconditional Release Of Agba Jalingo Meanwhile, few hours af­ter the Federal Government ordered
the release of Omoye­le Sowore and Col. Sambo Da­suki, Socio-Economic Right and
Accountability Project (SERAP) has demanded the immediate and unconditional
release of journalist and pub­lisher, Agba Jalingo. SERAP in a statement on Tuesday by its Deputy Direc­tor,
Kolawole Oluwadare, wel­comed the announcement by the government ordering the
release of Sowore and Dasuki. It described the develop­ment as positive step by the
Nigerian government, just as he expressed hope that this would signal a change
in di­rection in Nigeria towards full respect for the rule of law, tol­erance
and greater openness by the government that would allow citizens to effectively
en­joy their constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms. The statement reads in part, “SERAP has consistent­ly called
for the immediate and unconditional release of Sowore, Olawale Bakare and other
prisoners of conscience. “The President Buhari government should now immediately
withdraw all charges against Mr. Sowore and Olaware Bakare and all other
detained simply for ex­ercising their right to freedom of expression. They should
never have been charged in the first place. “We also call for the im­mediate and unconditional release
of journalist Agba Jalingo and all those still de­tained on bogus charges, hav­ing
spoken out in favour of greater democracy, freedom of expression, association
and peaceful assembly.” Fani-Kayode, Ezekwesili, Gbadamosi React Femi Fani-Kayode, a for­mer Minister of Aviation, has
described as “the way to go”, the order given by the Federal Government for the
release of Omoyele Sowore, convener of #Revolution­Now and the former Nation­al
Security Adviser (NSA), Sambo Dasuki. Reacting to the news via his verified official Twitter han­dle,
@realFFK, Fani-Kayode said he was delighted to hear that the Federal Government
through the Attorney Gener­al of Federation, Abubakar Malami, ordered the
release of the duo. The tweet reads: “I am de­lighted to hear that the Fed­eral
Government, through Attorney General Malami, has ordered the release of Col.
Sambo Dasuki and @Ye­leSowore. That is the way to GO!!! Thanks be to God!” While also appreciating the president of United States of
America, Donald Trump over the development, the former minister wrote, “I also
thank @realDonaldTrump”. On her part, a former Min­ister of Education, Oby Eze­kwesili
welcomed Sowore back to freedom, just as she applauded the activist for
standing strong throughout the period he was in deten­tion. Ezekwesili, who also re­acted through her verified official
twitter handle, also applauded Sowore’s counsel, Femi Falana, a Senior Advo­cate
of Nigeria (SAN). Ezekwesili’s tweet reads: “@YeleSowore, welcome back to
freedom. Thank you for standing strong through it all. No government can win
against the people. No govern­ment.” However, the governor­ship candidate of the Action Democratic
Party (ADP) in the 2019 general elections in Lagos State, Babatunde Gbadamosi,
alleged that the Federal Government took the decision in order to di­vert
attention away from the alleged attempt on the life of former President
Goodluck Jonathan. Gbadamosi, who com­mended the release of the duo, said on
his Twitter handle that, “I cautiously celebrate the announcement that the FG
has ordered the re­lease of Omoyele Sowore and Colonel Sambo Dasuki (rtd.) from
illegal detention by the DSS. My cautious approach is based on the diabolical
precedents of this tyrannical Buhari government.” We Can’t Thank Buhari Their Release— Afenifere Pan-Yoruba socio-politi­cal organisation, Afenifere, said
while it was happy with the order for the release of Omoyele Sowore and Sambo
Dasuki, it could not thank the Federal Government for doing so. Yinka Odumakin, Nation­al Publicity Secretary of the
organisation, said the rights of citizens were constitution­al and should not
be subjected to the whims and caprices of civilian dictators. “The regime has chosen to release them on its own ac­cord,
jettisoning court orders in the order of Decree 2 of military days. “We say thanks but no thanks as the rights of our cit­izens
are constitutional and not subject to the whims and caprices of military or
civil­ian dictators,” Afenifere said. While reacting to the devel­opment, Professor Itse Sagay
applauded the government, saying it was a welcome de­velopment. “It shows now is the right time for their release. Even the
Bible acknowledged the fact that there is time for everything and I believe
it’s time for them to gain freedom, that is why they are being re­leased. “The government incar­cerated them for the sake of security
in the country and now they have realised that there is a change in the situa­tion
and they no longer pose danger to the society. “Their release is a wel­come development. I am hap­py that
they can now go home and enjoy their freedom.” Emeka Ozoani, SAN, also said what the AGF had done showed
that he had now re­viewed the order of the court. It is not a good development
for the country’s judiciary. The AGF has chosen to follow the order of the court long
after it was given. He has considered himself as the ap­pellate court by making
cari­cature of the system. “I suggest that when the duo is finally released, they
should subject them to a prop­er medical treatment. “The order of their release is not a favour on their part;
it’s something that ought to have been done since,” he said. Also, the president of a right group, Committee for the
Defence of Human Rights, Malachy Ugwummadu, said the development was coming too
late. He said: “For some of us who have consistently fought for
the cause, we were not tak­en aback by the news. “According to section 287 (3) of the 1999 constitution, the
government and its agencies are to obey the court order, especially the court
of higher authorities. “There wouldn’t have been any difference if the govern­ment
had swallowed their pride and obeyed the court orders. They ought to have known
that there is no way they could have defeated the masses on this matter. “It is a shame for this gov­ernment which has no under­standing
for the rule of law.” Malachy, however, added that the way forward for this
government was to pretend to know what they were doing henceforth. “Again, they should prose­cute those behind the disobe­dience
of the court order. “Section 35(6) of the consti­tution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria 1999, also says once you are illegally detained, you are entitled to
public apology and that is the way we can affirm that this government will not
go back to its vomit. “Sowore is not a riff raff; he has a family that was af­fected
by his incarceration. So the government must compensate him as well as
prosecute those who are be­hind the disobedience of the court order.” Similarly, Mike Ozekhome, SAN, said the order by the Federal
Government through the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Mala­mi,
SAN, for the immediate release of Colonel Sambo Da­suki, who had been in deten­tion
for about four years, and Omoyele Sowore, who had been detained since August,
2019, was salutary for democ­racy, respect for fundamental rights of the
citizens, and ob­servance of rule of law. He said: “I am happy the government has finally real­ised
its faux pas and is see­ing the same light which I saw since 2015 when I kicked
against the illegal incarcera­tion of Dasuki. “It is never too late to take corrective measures and make
amends. There is nothing like something good happening at a bad time, or
something bad happening at a good time. “This government is be­ginning to see the importance of the
rule of law prevailing over rule of the thumb and over so-called national secu­rity,
which is a euphemism for security of a government in power. “The government should add El-Zakzaky to the list of
detainees to be released, be­cause the whole world, aside government apologists
and grovelers, see all of them as political prisoners.”  