There are strong indications that Emmanuel Uduaghan, the immediate-past governor of Delta State, is highly favoured to emerge as the new chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). However, he has to cross some hurdles as the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, was said to be working in collaboration with other stakeholders to perpetuate members of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) as the agency’s board members. Since President Muhammadu Buhari suspended the new board, screened and approved by the Senate, Akpabio, it was gathered, had taken full charge of the interventionist agency with absolute powers to constitute a new board. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The decision to give Delta State the chairmanship of the NDDC, as against the Managing Director, followed the recent directive by the president that the board should be recomposed and inaugurated after the forensic audit of the organisation. It would be recalled that stakeholders complained that the appointment of the chairman of the suspended board did not follow the NDDC Establishment Act, insisting that it wasnot the turn of Edo State to produce the agency’s chairman. In suspending the new buard, Buhari had also directed that the IMC should be in place till the conclusion of the planned forensic audit of the agency and that the supervision of the commission should remain under the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, being headed by Akpabio. A credible source confided in Sunday INDEPENDENT that the president concurred that the earlier board that zoned the chairmanship to Edo State was a violation of the NDDC Establishment Act. Asked why Bernard Okumagba, who was earlier cleared by the National Assembly as the Managing Director, was not considered again as the Chairman, he said, “the presidency may also be thinking of correcting some irregularities between the Urohobos and Itsekiris in Delta State.” Uduaghan is an Itsekiri man from Abigborodo in Warri North Local Government Area, while Okumagba is an Urhobo man from Okere in Warri South Local Government Area. The source also added that the presidency might want to compensate Uduaghan, who contested the February 23, 2019, Delta South Senatorial District election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Court of Appeal in Benin City recently voided the judgment of a lower tribunal, which had nullified the election of Senator James Manager and ordered a rerun. Manager, now doing a fourth term in the Senate, was the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), while Uduaghan ran on the platform of the APC. Ondo State, which kicked against the former board, said it was pleased with Buhari’s decision to sustain the IMC of the NDDC with the mandate to supervise the forensic audit. It said the sustenance of the IMC to midwife the forensic audit process, as well as the affirmation of the presidential directive that the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs should continue to supervise the NDDC were courageous. Donald Ojogo,Ondo State  Commissioner for Information and Orientation, said “Mr. President’s holistic action represents an unpretentious move to instill sanity, fiscal discipline, transparency, accountability, just as his commitment to the strict adherence to the Act establishing the NDDC has enlivened the confidence of stakeholders in the Niger Delta region. “It is against this backdrop that the government of Ondo State reinforces its earlier position to produce the next Managing Director of the NDDC. This position is not just another importunate one. It is logical and in conformity with the law establishing the commission. “The Ondo State government finds solace in Part IV Section 12(1) which unambiguously states, ‘There shall be for the Commission, a Managing Director, and two Executive Directors who shall be indigenes of oil producing areas starting with the member states of the Commission with the highest production quantum of oil and shall rotate amongst member States in order of production”. Ojogo added: “It is in line with the spirit and letters of the provisions of the Act establishing the NDDC that the following states have produced the MD in line with quantum of production: Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers and Akwa Ibom in that order. “Therefore, the government and good people of Ondo State have a firm belief that Mr. President in recomposing the Board and Management of the NDDC would consider the clause in the Act and do the needful by appointing an indigene of Ondo State, being the fifth in production order, as the next Managing Director of the NDDC.” The president had recently approved a 16-man new board of the NDDC, with Dr. Pius Odubu from Edo State as the chairman. Odubu was Oshiomhole’s deputy as Edo State governor between November 2008 and November 2016. Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, also nominated Okumagba from Delta State as the new Managing Director. Some governors of the oil bearing states had kicked against the NDDC board, which they said politics was the only consideration used in selecting the members, adding that it ran contrary to the provisions of the NDDC Act. According to them, the new board was “hurriedly put together” without the input of the governors of the oil bearing states. As governors of the Niger Delta states, the law setting up the NDDC provides that they should be consulted on the composition of the NDDC Board. Godwin Obaseki, Edo State governor, had also alleged that Oshiomhole got top officials at the presidency to approve the composition of the NDDC board when Buhari was out of the country. He claimed that the APC national chairman had his cronies on the board of the NDDC and saw the agency as his cash cow. Crusoe Osagie, the governor’s spokesperson, had accused Oshiomhole of influencing the Federal Government to take unconstitutional decisions. “Comrade Oshiomhole, indeed, has not kept his dishonesty and inability to abide by due process and the provisions of the constitution to his destructive activities in Edo’s political space, he has exported it to the federal level of government, placing the presidency under undue pressure leading them to take decisions that run afoul of due process and the constitution. “A case in point is the recent incident when the president was away from the country and Comrade Oshiomhole got top officials at the presidency to approve the composition of the board of the NDDC, made up of his cronies apparently in violation of the existing rules. “Uppermost on Comrade Oshiomhole’s mind was his desire to annex the NDDC and make it a slush fund from where he expected to finance the political tension in Edo State towards possibly seizing control of the Edo State government from Governor Obaseki. “He did not care whether the rules were followed or the integrity of the people being appointed. All he wanted was to achieve his aim and keep Edo State under his stranglehold as the new godfather,” the governor had alleged. Consequently, Sunday INDEPENDENT gathered that governors of the oil producing states and Akpabio met with the President and prevailed on him to reverse the appointment in the spirit of the NDDC Act. Besides Okumagba, other board members whose hope had been dashed by the latest development are Otobong Ndem from Akwa Ibom, who was appointed as the Executive Director, Projects. Others are Maxwell Okoh from Bayelsa State; Jones Erue from Delta State; Victor Ekhatar from Edo State; Nwogu Nwogu from Abia State; Theodore Allison from Bayelsa State; Victor Antai from Akwa Ibom State; Maurice Effiwatt from Cross River State; Olugbenga Elema from Ondo State; Uchegbu Kyrian from Imo State; and Aisha Muhammed from Kano State representing North-West area on the board. From Adamawa State, Buhari had appointed Ardo Zubairu to represent the North-East; while Badmus Mutalib was appointed from Lagos State to represent the South-West region on the NDDC board. Under Part 1, Section 4 of the Establishment of the NDDC Board, the office of the Chairman shall rotate amongst the member states of the commission in the following alphabetical order: Abia State, Akwa Ibom State, Bayelsa State, Cross River State, Delta State, Edo State, Imo State, Ondo State and Rivers State. The Senate had on November 5, 2019, confirmed the nomination of 15 persons for the appointment on board of the NDDC, out of 16 names nominated by Buhari. The upper chamber had rejected the nomination of Dr. Joy Nunieh, nominee for Rivers, following her absence at the screening conducted by the Senate Committee on Niger Delta. Nunieh currently serves on the IMC overseeing activities of the NDDC. The committee has Dr. Cairo Ojougboh as Acting Executive Director, Projects, and Chief Ibanga Bassey Etang as Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration.