Dr. Kenneth Anozie, a grassroots politician, human rights activist and former Special Adviser on Special Duties to ex-Anambra State Governor, Chinwoke Mbadijnuju, is Co-Founder/Coordinating Secretary, Igbo Oriental Think Tank. Anozie, also a former administrator of Aguata North Local Government, spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the recent Bayelsa and Kogi States’ elections, the alleged third term agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari, the Hate Speech Bill before the Senate, among other crucial issues. Excerpts: How do you see the recent Bayelsa and Kogi States’ governorship elections, especially the orgy of violence recorded during the exercises in both states? The Kogi and Bayelsa elections can be described simply as a ‘Saturday Night Massacre’. I mean, people were told to prepare for election. They did, campaigned, and all that, and on the day of the election, they brought out war arsenals, brutalised the people, burnt the state, laid siege to the people, and disenfranchised the voters, wrote trash on the papers and forced the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to announce a charade as an election result. It was impetuous, anarchical, violent display of electoral arrogance. It was impunity of the highest order. Nigeria lost her electoral innocence on that November 16, 2019. I don’t know how that charade can stand. It is a big pity.  I led an observer team to Kogi State for the election. What I saw cannot be described. The people were so brutalised that almost 70% of the voters could not cast their votes, even though they wanted to, and those that did couldn’t even have the decency of their votes count. If you see the allocation of the votes, you will just laugh. It was just a huge joke, a deliberate imposed electoral nightmare. How would you account for the loss of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in both Bayelsa and Kogi States to the All Progressives Congress (APC)? Which loss? Was there an election? Before you talk of loss, there must be an election. Look, the Bayelsa election was just a fixed result. I describe it as Naijabet election. People came and guess, worked the result, and they were just announced. I mean, I could not believe that what transpired could be passed as election. Nigeria is finished. All the elections since Buhari came to power were just Naijabet elections. Everything was fixed. PDP did not lose any election. No election was held. The so-called election was just a farce election. The Senate is presently considering the Hate Speech Bill, which is before it.  What is your take on the bill, which a cross section of Nigerians seems not to like? I am at a loss over such a bill that seeks to undermine the Rule of Law and our constitution. Section 1 of the Nigeria Constitution says that everyone is the same under the laws of Nigeria. Section 39 (1) of the constitution guarantees everyone the inalienable rights to freedom of expression, to hold opinion, to express himself or herself. The present regime having failed the people, simply want to gag the people, thereby stopping Nigerians from criticising their failures and their incompetence.  There are enough laws to handle the issue of defamation of character. We cannot subject this country to the whims and caprices of few individuals, where the private desire of a cabal is translated into a public policy. For God’s sake, this is a democracy. However, it is unfortunate that what has been happening in the past four years do not give credence or indicate that we have a democracy. Yes, there is a civil rule, I can say. But, the philosophy that democracy is ‘government of the people by the people and for the people’ is just non-existence. What is happening in Nigeria is just a faux pas. This is quasi democracy. It is too uncivilised what is happening in a civil rule. Despite his denials, Nigerians see the alleged third term plan for President Muhammadu Buhari as real. What is your view on this? This has been in the works since Buhari was sworn in, in 2015. The deliberate annexation of all the apparatus of government by the regime gives credence to the rumour. But, come to think of it, what in the world are these people pushing Nigeria into? All the elements that make for full dictatorship are now in full display. Yes, third term, or what I will refer to ‘a life term’ is in the works. Whether it will succeed or not is what I don’t know. I must note here that God of creation still rules in the affairs of man. Most times, man proposes, God or nature disposes. God will not leave the people in this kind of perilous state. I still wonder how a regime that was brought through a constitution is working very hard to subvert the same constitution and rule of law that brought them to power. Let me beg this government to feel the pulse of Nigerians, the people they swore on oath to protect and provide security and welfare for and respect that their oath of office. I thank Buhari for saying that he swore with the Koran. I hope he understands the import of what he is saying and adhere to it. How do you see the recent money laundering allegation against the Air Peace boss, Chief Allen Onyeama? The boss of Air Peace airline is a businessman. I don’t understand the allegations of money laundering of which he is being accused of. What I know is that he has never held any government office before. He made money, used that money to do businesses. An airline happens to be one of his businesses. I am not a businessman. But, I know that there are simple rules in business. And he being who he is, I know he will not deliberately run fowl of the law. I know because an adage goes thus, ‘A person that is being critically observed must never miss his steps’. That is an Igbo adage. Would you say the continued closure of land borders by the Federal Government is in the interest of the common man? The issue of border closure amounts to economic sabotage against a section of the country. Simple. While the Southern borders are closed, all the porous Northern borders are not only still open, but are daily used for nefarious activities, including smuggling. We all heard this from a member of the National Assembly, who made this known on the floor of the House of Representatives. This is wickedness on the part of the system. All these ethnic war; these entire economic siege; all these deliberate sidelining are not good for the country. People can only take so much oppression.  All these separatist agitations arise as a result of this kind of deliberate and dangerous policies. All Nigerians should be subjected to the same rules, the same constitution, the same treatment. These are the right thing to be done. As Nigerian politicians strategise towards the 2023 elections, South East political leaders seem to be lukewarm over the issue of Igbo Presidency Agenda. What would you say accounts for their seeming lack of interest in this all important project? Which Presidency, 2023? The Igbos are not lukewarm over Igbo presidency. The signpost for any form of organised political process seems not to be in place. First, we must amend the constitution to reflect the wishes of Nigerians. The constitution must truly be ‘We the People Constitution!’ Not an imposed piece of document. A Senator of the Federal Republic on the floor of the senate, while holding up the constitution, said, ‘The problem of Nigeria is this piece of document I am holding. And until we change it, we are not going anywhere’. In every complex, multi ethnic, multi-religious country like Nigeria, it is a well crafted constitution that moderates the greed, the avarice and the impunity of the ruling class. Without a well crafted and peoples’ constitution, things will never work well in Nigeria. Let steps be taken now to look into the constitution and make the ‘Peoples Constitution’. It has been my view that the recommendations of 2014 National Conference should be the basis upon which our new constitution should be based. At least, it should be dusted up, fine tuned. Then we will begin a journey for a new Nigeria. It is after that, that we will talk of a President of Igbo extraction. Even though there are already a plethora of impetuous decibels by some Northern irredentists championing the idea that there will be no president of Igbo extraction come 2023. I see these their calls as ethnically biased swansong. Most a times, I wonder what gives these kinds of people such impetus to vituperate such ethnic tainted diatribe. It is not healthy for our corporate existence. Some people will see such and begin to ask. Are we sure we are part of the country? All these breed separatist agitations. But, let me say on a final note, there is no tribe as prepared as Igbo to rule Nigeria. The day an Igbo rules Nigeria, the country will take a developmental cruise and become the envy of the world. I can guarantee that. This is because the Igbos have staked more than any other ethnic group in keeping Nigeria one. We, as a people, have only reacted when pushed to the wall. Come to think of this: The Igbo has a population of about 54 million, with 43 million residing in Nigeria, and the rest in Diaspora. In Abuja, the Igbo own about 56% of the private property here. All over the North, the Igbo own some 43% of the private properties and businesses.  In Lagos alone, Igbo constitute 43% of the population. They own about 46% of the private properties and businesses, and contribute to about 49% of the GDP. In the entire West Igbo own 39% of the private properties and businesses there. Go and take the statistics. In every state in Nigeria, aside the indigenes of that state, Igbo constitute the next biggest population. This I know because a study taken during the last election proved so. So, we are very much keen, prepared and have the best of the candidates to occupy the presidency, and we will excel if we take over. So, we are not only warming up, we are ever ready. What is your take on the crises in both the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the major opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)? What do these portend for democracy in Nigeria? APC is a ‘dog eat dog party’. I don’t see it as a political party.  They are more like a market association; mercantile organisation that came together for the purpose of sharing the booty gotten from a heist. In the wake of it, sharing crises emanated and up till now, they are still struggling to make up their mind how to share it. As for the PDP, some governors are holding the party down. There must be a serious minded effort to provide a central control and leadership for the party. This is very, very important.  PDP as party has tried so much to nurture this democracy. For good 16 years, the party put all the institutions that laid the foundation for a true democracy. The party must not lose sight of the fact that majority of Nigerians who are frustrated with the political siege the APC has subjected Nigerians, are looking up to them. In the midst of any crises, people look out for alternatives and exit routes. PDP seem to be that exit route if they, as a party, can gird their loins. With the loss of Abubakar Atiku at the Supreme Court, what do you think should be the next line of action for the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP)? The struggle continues.