LAGOS – The Nigerian Shippers’ Council has pledged to play significant roles in the preparation for the enhancement of Nigeria’s opportunities in the recently signed African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) to ensure the project is promoted and succeeds. Part of the roles according to the Council is to provide stakeholders support service, advisory services among others during the regime. Barr. Hassan Bello, the Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer (ES/CEO), disclosed this at a one-day national workshop on the role of Maritime in the AfCFTA Agreement in Lagos at the weekend. Hassan, who was represented at the workshop by Adaora Nnoru,  Chief Operating Officer(Trade Services), averred that AfCFTA was all about export trade competitiveness noted  that to enhanced economic growth in the maritime industry under AfCFTA would not come automatically but through concerted steps. According to the Bello, growth can only come through enhancing industrial productive capacity: trade facilitation agreement by introducing customs management reforms, implementing the trade facilitation agreement. Bello emphasised that in providing support for stakeholders, the Council would provide cargo defence fund to shippers and trade groups to pursue their legitimate business, ensure infrastructure, logistics, access to finace. He said all these and advisory to the government were all the NSC has been doing to boost AfCFTA, which also are geared towards enhancing Ease of Doing Business. He added that supervision of the establishment of transport services such as Inland Dry Port (IDP), truck transit parks, border information centre, port services support portal. “Offer stakeholders advice on how to avoid pitfalls in their international trade. “Continuously advise the Federal Government on AfCFTA and other policy formulation and implementation in respect of shipping interests. “Regular consultation with cross border practitioners and regional bodies for trade facilitation; regular representation of stakeholders on regional and sub-regional fora. “Continuously organise seminars/workshop to educate stakeholders on international best practice. “Continuously conduct research for the benefit of stakeholders; post expansion project, cross border, Trade processes, roads, rail infrastructure development, sea link project, improved and sustained trade corridor management,” he said. Speaking further, Bello averred that the trade agreement constituted the most significant development in Africa’s integration efforts. He added that it was expected that the free trade area will promote the development of manufacturing and agro-processing and with them, accelerated inclusive economic diversification and competitiveness across Africa. He, therefore, advised that private sector, civil society, development partners, media houses, financial institutions and the general public hands should be on deck for the success and for Nigeria to harness the presented opportunities.