LAGOS – It is no longer news that Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is currently going through a survival battle, which may end his position as the party chair. The recent call by some aggrieved members of the party’s National Executive Council (NEC), asking Oshiomhole to resign and vacate his seat, is a strong signal that the former governor of Edo State is losing his grip of the party. Some aggrieved members of the party’s NEC, had on November 22, insisted that Oshiomhole must vacate his position, as they accused him of deliberately delaying the convocation of NEC meeting. Lawal Liman, the chairman of Zamfara State chapter of the party, who led the aggrieved NEC members, said Oshiomhole’s resignation would provide an enabling environment for genuine healing, reconciliation and the practice of true democracy within the party across the country. Liman, who is also the spokesman for APC state chairmen’s forum, alleged that Oshiomhole had usurped the powers of the party’s NEC due to his “dictatorial and despotic tendencies”. According to him, “Most of the goodwill acquired by the party, by reasons of its religious adherence to the provisions of its constitution and the tenets of internal democratic practice, has taken a downturn principally due to the dictatorial and despotic tendencies of Adams Oshiomhole, who has usurped the powers of NEC. “This may have been responsible for the admonition of Mr. President, who insisted that the party organs at the state, local government and ward levels must be strengthened and accorded due respect, with regard to the powers and responsibilities conferred on them by the party’s constitution.” Liman further stated that the “façade” conducted by Oshiomhole in the just-concluded NEC meeting left much to be desired. “He completely ignored Mr. President’s advice and defied all known rules for meetings by precluding contributions from members and ending the meeting abruptly, without achieving anything. This is most unfortunate and undesirable. “Arising from the foregoing and having regards to the huge responsibilities bestowed on us as officers of the party and in the overriding interest of our members, we are left with no option than to demand that Oshiomhole resigns his position as national chairman,” he said. A reliable source close to the party, told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that majority of members within the party are not happy with the way Oshiomhole had been running the affairs of the party since he took over from his predecessor, John Odigie-Oyegun. “From onset, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has been a problem for the party. He has always operated like a labour leader. We all thought he was going to be better than Chief Oyegun whom he took over from but for some of us, we have been disappointed. “You saw what happened when we held our primaries across the country in preparation for the 2019 general elections, most states were thrown into controversies and that got us into a lot of problems and we lost some states, which we shouldn’t have. “As bad as many members thought Chief Oyegun was, if he was still the chairman of the party, we won’t lose those states that we lost in the 2019 elections, I am very confident of that. But Oshiomhole became so controversial the moment he got into office. “From the look of things, he may not survive the present battle. Already, members are asking for his resignation and it is just a matter of time, he would be asked to resign and if he refuses, he would be removed by force. He is just one out of many, so the party hierarchy won’t allow just one man to ruin the party,” the source said. Lawal Shuaibu, the Deputy National Chairman (North) of the APC, had sometime in May, requested Oshiomhole, to step down for the future of the ruling party. Shuaibu, in a letter dated May 27, 2019 and addressed to the former Edo State Governor, noted that the APC project was failing due to Oshiomhole’s leadership. He had accused Oshiomhole of being directly responsible for the party’s loss of all its electoral seats in Zamfara State. Shuaibu also said the former governor has to resign to allow the party embarks on the task of reconstruction and rehabilitation. The said letter read: “I write this letter with my hands shaking, arising from the realising of my involvement in a project that is currently seen as failing, even before achieving the ambition of its founding fathers. I never found myself in any failed project. “In advanced democracies, people who fail to add value or build over and above what they met on assumption of duty show some civilized examples, they honourably bow out. “In that connection, therefore, I want to advise you to take the path of honour, to step aside and allow the party to embark on the onerous task of reconstruction and rehabilitation in those states it was weakened by the effect of the last primary election exercises. “Or even the task of recreating the party where it is on the path of extinction, arising from the loss of a sitting APC government, for example in Zamfara State, where you directly personally created the problem leading to the painful complete loss of APC’s electoral fortunes. From up to down, all these are uncontestable facts. “You cannot exonerate yourself from what happened to APC in Zamfara State, thereby destroying the hopes and aspirations of 534,541 APC members and supporters.” Recent events, and especially comments from members of the party, have shown that the odds are not in Oshiomhole’s favour and some sources in the party have also claimed that the party’s hierarchy is already secretly shopping for a candidate that would replace the former labour leader. “The leadership of the party is not saying anything on his matter because they have their plans. They are all aware of all his controversial ways of life, but they are already planning to boot him out. Once they are able to get a suitable replacement, he would definitely be shown the way out. He is not the type of chairman our party needs at this time. “We are just lucky that the opposition is weak, if not, we won’t be performing this rubbish. But I can tell you that the party is aware of Oshiomhole’s antics. For those of us who are supposed to speak out and we are not, it is not because we can’t but it is because we don’t want to wash our dirty garment in the public. We can’t allow Oshiomhole to ruin this party for us. “Imagine the crisis going on in his very own state, if he is not mature enough to handle his own state’s crisis, how then can he manage a national crisis? As far as I am concerned, Oshiomhole’s days are numbered, once the leaders of the party are ready, he will be shown the way out,” a source, who is also a state chairman told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT. Charles Idahosa, a former Special Adviser on political matters to Oshiomhole when he was governor of Edo State, recently declared that his ex-principal is not fit to continue to lead the party. Idahosa, who stated this while reacting to the recent attack on the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, Oba Rilwan Akiolu of Lagos and others at the residence of Oshiomhole, noted that what happened at the residence of the APC chairman, proved the kind of person he is. He described as irony a situation where the APC, which is now the government at the centre and the state, now has a leader that allegedly sends police after party members. He recalled that when Oshiomhole was governor and Tony Anenih was the most powerful Edo man being the national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the latter never hounded anybody with security operatives even in spite of provocation. Idahosa, while wondering how a sitting governor could be so attacked after he was invited to the national chairman’s house for lunch, said, “Last week, he (Oshiomhole) came to Benin and lied to the whole world that he was attacked in his compound. “No single shred of evidence was put out; it was just in his imagination. This was to portray a sitting governor as a bad person,” Idahosa added, while stressing that the commissioner of police denied that Oshiomhole was attacked. “Oshiomhole has shown that he is not a fit and proper person to be a national chairman. And to make it laughable, the Deputy Governor was with these people inside the vehicle and you said Deputy Governor organised the attack. Did he organise to attack himself? You can see how childish this is,” Idahosa said. In October 2018, Tunji Abayomi, a senatorial aspirant in Ondo State, has issued a 24-hour notice to Oshiomhole to resign his position, after an automatic clearance given to three senators in the state to contest in the 2019 general election. Abayomi, who accused Oshiomhole of sabotaging the efforts of the party by working against them, alleged that Oshiomhole was no longer fit to continue to lead the APC, as his tenure was bringing more crises into the party. “He does not have the intellectual capacity to understand issues and the wisdom to bridge differences. He does not have respect to take decision and tolerance to respond to the challenges and the opposing views that will advance the party. If he failed or succeeded as governor, certainly he has failed tremendously as National Chairman of the party. “The tragedy is that he was elected to reduce the crisis of the party, but he has assumed the position to increase the crisis in manifold. In order not to kill the APC, please, Mr. Adams Oshiomole resign now, it would be wrong to underestimate the character of the people of Ondo State,” Abayomi said. He explained that he had written to Oshiomhole to explore the internal mechanisms of the party in addressing his grievances. “It is necessary to remind him that we have been at the forefront of the struggle for change in Nigeria from pre-independence until now. Let Adams Oshiomhole know that our fathers raised us to stand up for something and not to fall for everything. And in this particular case, we will stand up for something and for the rule of law, constitution of APC and constitution of Nigeria. And we will not equivocate, retreat nor move an inch from maintaining that position. “You look at a leader who puts before a nation that the National Working Committee (NWC) took a decision. Mr. Oshiomhole lied to the people and there was no NWC that sat, and if there was one, he should give us the minutes of the meeting. He should also give us the time the meeting was held and the decisions that was taken and with number of voters for what he has put out. “In fact, being the Chairman, he can tell a lie, and he is unfit and unsuitable to lead APC that is supposed to be a party of change. So, he has just 24 hours to explore the internal mechanism of the party, but if he fails, he will see the show of Ondo State people,” he added. Few weeks ago, the Progressives Governors Forum asked Oshiomhole to convene a NEC meeting to address the party’s challenges or resign his position. “It is either Comrade Oshiomhole respects the provision of the party constitution and convene superior organ meeting to deliberate on all our challenges, or he should just accept his inability to manage the party and simply resign”, Progressives Governor Forum Director-General, Salihu Lukman said in a statement. “In the current circumstance, nothing short of a NEC or national caucus meeting of the party can resolve all our increasing organisational challenges as a party.” Lukman’s criticism came a day after the Edo State chapter of the APC suspended Oshiomhole. In Oshiomhole’s suspension letter, Edo State APC chairman Anselm Ojezua accused him of being behind the party’s internal crisis. Lukman said Oshiomhole ought to focus on working to win elections for the party but had lost grip of the party with local politics in Edo State. While Oshiomhole and Obaseki still have unresolved differences, Lukman said it is painful to see Oshiomhole devalue himself to a local factional leader from a very high pedestal of an illustrious national leader. “What legacy is Comrade Oshiomhole hoping to achieve as a National Chairman by running the party in a way that suggests almost zero commitment to issues of party development?,” Lukman queried. He opined that the APC NWC headed by Oshiomhole has become a shadow of itself after losing members to appointment into government offices and controversial suspensions. Itse Sagay, Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), while lending his voice on Oshiomhole’s matter, pointed out why the APC lost control of some states. Sagay observed that the aggressive behaviour and approach of Oshiomhole towards members made the party lose control of some states. He said the party will lose most of the states it currently controls if the former Edo State governor continues to handle issues the same way. The PACAC Chairman recalled that Oshiomhole once ignored his advice on the need to be less combative in dealing with APC members. He said: “I have advised Oshiomhole rather unsuccessfully to stop being combative, to stop punching and all these aggressive behaviour. “In a leadership position, you need to stoop to conquer, you need to be restrained. Even when people are wrong and you want to correct them, you need to show that you are not after humiliating them and that you will work with them to correct things; not to be aggressive, threatening and engaging in pugilistic method. “I told him this but he ignored it. Because of his aggression, we have lost quite a number of states.” Ojezua had said last week that governors elected under the APC platform do not have sympathy for the national chairman anymore. “The governors don’t have sympathy for him, but somehow, they do not want to be seen as leading the vanguard against him.” He explained that the governors expect Oshiomhole “to read in between the lines and do what is honourable. I don’t see him surviving,” he added. The APC State chairman spoke on the rowdy session at the recent national executive council meeting of the party in Abuja. “He (Oshiomhole) would not allow the meeting to take place. What we saw was just a charade,” he said. Speaking further, he said, “Once you lose the confidence of your people; you lose the confidence of your colleagues, you lose the confidence of key members of the party, what moral justification do you have to lead? “If your people say they have suspended you from their membership, do you really have the legitimacy to conduct the affairs of the party as an officer? I think these are some of the main questions that people should ask. Can you function as an officer if your membership has been suspended?” “The rule of the party is that you have to be suspended from your ward; that has been done; it has been decided at the local government and state levels. “What moral, legal or constitutional justification does he have to retain or function in the office, when his own people have expressed their lack of confidence in him? That is the issue. It is that lack of confidence that led to suspension. So, if they are looking at the legitimacy or legality of the suspension, can they also question the lack of confidence?” Ojezua said. Oshiomhole was elected the APC’s national chairman in June 2018 but his reign has been rocked by many clashes of personalities with him at the centre of most of them. The primary elections of the APC to choose candidates to contest in the 2019 general elections were rocked mostly by a lot of divisions and controversies within the party. A lot of state governors openly quarrelled with Oshiomhole over what they alleged to be his role in truncating the processes to install certain candidates. He was interrogated in November 2018 on allegations made by certain governors that he received bribe to manipulate the APC’s primary elections across the country. He openly engaged in a war of words with former Zamfara governor, Abdulaziz Yari, on the conduct of the state’s primary elections.