In the bid to improve the quantum and quality of power being supplied to customers, BEDC Electricity Plc. (BEDC) at the weekend perfected plans to engage with power generation companies within and outside Nigeria specialising in embedded generation in order to achieve its aims and objectives. According to the Management, in a statement made available to our correspondent, BEDC desires to partner such companies that are willing to build operate and evacuate power lines (11KV or 33KV) from their facilities to BEDC’s designated take-off points. “This invitation is open to existing generation companies within BEDC’s franchise areas and those operators with genuine intention to site their generating facilities within our franchise area which covers Delta, Edo, Ekiti and Ondo states in Nigeria” the management asserted. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network BEDC explained that for the purpose of Expression of Interest (EoI), the sites were divided into lots as follows: Lot A, Asaba, Lot B, Warri, Lot C, Benin, Lot D in Akure, Lot E in Okitipupa and Lot F in Ado Ekiti, all with various sub areas, adding that each stated Lot location will be parceled into sub- areas under the Lot and interest expression and bid will be based on these sub areas. Among the preliminary requirements listed by BEDC for submitting the proposal are; that the minimum capacity of power generation shall not be less than 5megawatts (MW) and that the minimum power availability from the plant shall be above 90 per cent. The point of take-off BEDC said, shall be at 33KV or at 11KV voltage level, while the substation up to grid shall be required to be maintained by the respective party i.e. up to the 3KV or 11KV feeder (from power plant to linking point of BEDC network). BEDC explained that the measure was aimed at solving the problem of power supply in some of its franchise states with challenges as the power generation companies are expected to produce power through embedded generation/off national grid to augment shortfall from the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). The initiative BEDC argued, will permanently improve power supply in such locations within the shortest possible time “We implore our customers to note that the power sector improvement process is a journey and not a race and that with your collective support by prompt payment of bills and honoring of your obligations, we will all get to our desired destination faster while all participants shall benefit from better power supply.” Meanwhile, in demonstration of its commitment to improving electricity distribution and enhancing service delivery to customers, BEDC has also undertaken some projects including the commissioning of over 32 transformers, 8 new injection substations and construction of 3 new 11kv feeders. The company also commissioned 7, 11kv feeder extensions, while many projects such as; addition of new 33kv lines, 11kv lines, rehabilitation of 33kv and 11kv lines, the replacement of power transformers, charging of distribution substations were ongoing in communities within its franchise states of Edo, Delta, Ondo and Ekiti. According to BEDC, these projects were geared towards further improving electricity supply within its network and were carried out during the outgoing 2019 operating year. In Delta State, the company listed the commissioned transformers to include; 6 nos 300kva transformers in Onicha-Olona community, 300KVA transformer in Ujevwu community, 2 nos of 300KVA transformers in Egborode community, and 6 nos of 300KVA transformers in Egini community respectively. Others are; 300KVA transformer in Otor-Udu community, 300KVA transformer in Iwhrekan community, 300KVA 1 nos of 500KVA, 4 nos of 300KVA and 2 nos of 200KVA transformers in Akwukwu Igbo community in Delta State. BEDC stated that in Edo State, it commissioned 300KVA transformer in Omozogie (Uteh) community, 500KVA transformer in Idunwowina (Ohenhen) community, 300KVA transformer in Ohovbe community and 2 nos of 500KVA transformers in Idokpa community, all in Benin, among others. In addition, BEDC also installed for use 500KVA transformer in Ikhueniro 2 community, 500KVA transformer in Ohoghobi community, 300KVA transformer in Ogbebor community also in Edo state. In Ekiti State, the company commissioned a 300KVA transformer in Asin community, 200KVA transformer in Oju Oro community, and 300KVA transformer in Ilupeju 2 community. BEDC equally put a 200KVA transformer in Ipinsa 1 community, 500KVA transformer in Kajola community, and a 500KVA transformer in Store community also in Ondo State. Furthermore the company equally boosted the capacity of its injection sub stations with additional capacity of 65MVA. The new injection sub-substations energized with more capacity included; Evbuabogun (NIPP), Edo State, Uteh (NIPP), Edo State, Aiguobasimwin, Edo State, GRA, Edo State, Otovwodo (NIPP), Delta state, Ondo State University of Science and Technology (Igodan-Lisa) (NIPP), Okitipupa, Ondo State (NIPP) and Igbokoda, Ondo State– 33kV/11kV. New 11KV feeder projects according to BEDC are; those in Ogwashi-Uku Feeder, Delta State, Evbuabogun Feeder, Edo State, Evbuoriaria Feeder, Edo State, while the 11KV feeder extensions include; the Eboh Link 1 and  2, Delta, Mix & Bake, Delta State, Asaba Commercial, Delta State, Koka, Delta State, Agbor, Oghara Tank Farm both in  Delta State.