Lagos – From a stable position, Moody’s Investors Service, one of the leading rating agencies in the world, on Thursday changed Nigerian government’s outlook to negative. It also affirmed the B2 long-term local and foreign currency issuer ratings, the B2 foreign currency senior unsecured ratings, and the (P)B2 foreign currency senior unsecured MTN programme rating. The negative outlook reflects Moody’s view of increasing risks to the government’s fiscal strength and external position. Already weak government finances will likely weaken further given an extremely narrow revenue base and persistently sluggish growth that hinders fiscal consolidation. As pressures mount, there is a risk that the government resorts to increasingly opaque and costly options to finance a moderate but rising debt burden. Moreover, vulnerability to an adverse change in capital flows is building in light of Nigeria’s increasing reliance on foreign investors to fund the country’s foreign exchange reserves. Moody’s decision to affirm the rating at B2 recognises a combination of credit strengths, including the country’s large and diversified economy supported by vast oil and gas endowments, notwithstanding persistent credit weaknesses such as its very weak institutions and governance framework and, in particular, poor public finance management. Concurrently, Moody’s has maintained Nigeria’s country risk ceilings at their current levels: Foreign Currency bond ceiling at B1, Foreign Currency deposit ceiling at B3, and Local Currency bond and deposit ceilings at Ba1. The change of outlook to negative is informed by the increasing fragility of the country’s public finances and sluggish growth prospects. The increasing fragility of Nigeria’s public finances is evident in the greater reliance by the government on financing from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) over the last three years to cover persistently large fiscal deficits, with CBN cash advances reaching 2.5 percent of GDP on a net basis at the end of September 2019, in addition to government debt instruments held by the CBN worth 1.4 percent of GDP. Moody’s expects general government revenues to remain very low at around 8 percent of GDP until 2022, despite measures such as VAT rate increase to 7.5 percent from 5 percent in 2020. Consequently, debt affordability will remain weak, with general government interest payments at around 25% of revenues in the next few years. The administration’s focus on increasing infrastructure spending from very low levels will further exert pressure on fiscal deficits even if it is likely that much-needed capital expenditure will continue to be under-realised compared to the budgets, as capital expenditure (capex) is curtailed in order to contain the overall budget deficit. In general, Moody’s expects real growth to remain weak, at just over 2 percent over the next few years. The economy has yet to fully recover from the oil price shock of 2015 and the subsequent recession in 2016; real growth remains below population growth, denoting erosion in incomes from already low levels. This low growth environment makes achieving the government’s objectives of job creation, improvement in social indicators, and fiscal consolidation via increased revenue collection highly challenging.