Lagos – Youths in Edo state on Friday enforced the directive of the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, that the planned rally by some factional members of the All Progressives congress (APC) spearheaded by its National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole organised to welcome a former chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu and his loyalists to the party did not hold.
Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered that as early as 6am, the youths mobilised themselves to the venue of the rally and prevented the organisers from gaining access to the proposed venue of the rally at Garrick Memorial College, Ekenwan Road or setting up the stage and other electronic devices.
The youths also turned back and dispersed artistes and musicians contracted to perform at the rally. The supporters then moved to Ize-Iyamu’s residence at Ugbor area in Benin City where he was presented with the party ticket formally signaling his return to the APC.
Following the violence that broke out in the state on Thursday between supporters of the state governor, Godwin Obaseki and those loyal to Oshiomhole, the IGP who had earlier approved police deployment for the rally later ordered its suspension citing “overriding internal security interests.”
The police’s suspension of the rally which was contained in a letter addressed to the Edo State Deputy Governor, Hon. Philip Shaibu, and signed by the Principal Staff Officer to the IGP, ACP Idowu Owohunwa, came few hours after the threat from Edo Youth Vanguard (EYV) and thousands of youths loyal to the APC in the state protested against the planned mega rally.
It was gathered that the state Police Command positioned its officers in strategic places around Benin City including the proposed venue of the rally at Garrick Memorial College, Ekenwan Road.
At Ize- Iyamu’s residence, Col. David Imuse, the factional state factional chairman of the APC in the state, formally welcomed Ize-Iyamu into the party and presented him and his supporters with a broom, which is the APC party symbol.
He said the coming of Ize-Iyamu and his supporters from the 18 local government areas of the state to the APC was a homecoming worthy of celebration adding that it would add value to the party.
“We are here to celebrate the homecoming of our brothers and sisters from the PDP who have come to add value to our party; not only to add value, they are coming to make our party grow from strength to strength so that we can win at all levels.”
Imuse, who urged all members of the party in the state to close ranks so that it can grow from strength to strength, called on those he said were sitting on the fence to come and join the party adding that as a party with a large heart, the APC was open to all.
Addressing the gathering, Ize-Iyamu said that the notion that he was joining the APC in Benin City was wrong because he had already done so as required by party regulations at his Ugboko ward in Orhionmwon Local Government Area.
He said he was confident that his decision to return home to the APC will strengthen the party and will make it stronger and united.
Displaying his APC membership card, Ize- Iyamu who thanked those who took the pain to come to his residence said, “For those who are in doubt, the moment I made up my mind to join the APC, I went to my ward and I am proud to say I have registered in Ugboko ward in Orhionmwon local government area.”
Speaking to newsmen shortly after his reception into the party, Pastor Ize-Iyamu said he is pleading with those who felt threatened by his home coming to have a rethink adding that he is only coming to add value to the party and not to wage war against anybody.
“And for those who feel threatened or apprehensive, I want to please reassure them that we are not coming to fight in APC, we are not coming to wage war, we are coming to add value and so, we will continue to stretch our hands of friendship to everyone.”
He said he has learnt in life to move on even in the face of obstacles stressing that he is happy to have come along with his friends to join the party.
“Well, I am very happy. In my life, I have learnt never to be deterred by obstacles and so, I have made up my mind with those who also believe in me to join the party that we founded in this state and even in this country, the APC.
“So, today, we are surrounded by old friends and comrades in politics who have come to receive us. The crowd, as you can see, is mammoth and we thank God that there was no obstacle.
“For those who could not make it because of the difficulty, we apologize to them and I assure them that there will be another date and for those who came, I want to appreciate them.
“It has been a wonderful day, the weather has honoured us, the leadership has honoured us and we are very glad,” he said.
Ize-Iyamu, who said he has gone to his ward to register as a party member added that he thought that the event would be marred by violence but thanked God that his coming back to the APC as a party was peaceful.
“And like I mentioned, this place is not actually the place to join a political party and so even before today, I have gone to my ward in Ugboko in Orhionmwon and I have registered as a member of the APC. It is signed by my ward chairman.
“So, today is just a ceremony to welcome me home and I want to thank God Almighty that gave us enabling environment. People thought it will be violent but was not but it was very peaceful and I thank all our people and I look forward to working with everybody in APC and to make it a stronger party,” he said.
Also yesterday, the state government announced a total ban on all political rallies, demonstrations or procession in any part of the state.
It directed all security agencies to deal firmly with all persons, no matter how highly placed who breached the directive.
A statement signed by Secretary to the Edo State Government, Osarodion Ogie, Esq. said the state government has made clear its position that the “plans by some identified mischief-makers to organise an unauthorised political rally in Benin City was capable of leading to breakdown of public peace and also danger to the persons and property of Edo citizens.”
The statement warned property owners that any venue which is used for activities in breach of this order shall have its right of occupancy immediately revoked and forfeited to the state government.
Ogie said the state government would not allow any persons turn the state into a battlefield.
The events of yesterday were a scary prelude to the absolute mayhem which these irresponsible activities would generate if left unchecked.
“In defiance of the clear and publicised instruction of the Inspector General of Police, calling off the proposed rally owing to security implications, these desperate persons are presently shopping around for alternative venues to carry out their incendiary activities,” the statement said.
Meanwhile, Oshiomhole who had arrived from Abuja to Benin on Thursday night for the rally was conspicuously absent as the police barred him from leaving his residence despite several attempts made by the embattled national chairman.
A source said the Police kept surveillance on Oshiomhole in his residence throughout Friday morning to ensure that the IGP’s directive was not flouted. He added that the security agencies are still keeping watch on the APC chairman’s movement as at the time of filling this report.
“The State Commissioner of Police, Lawal Tanko Jimeta went to Oshiomhole’s residence on Friday morning stopping him from attending any rally in view of the prevailing security situation in the state. All attempts made by Oshiomhole to leave the residence proved abortive. The policemen are still there as at this moment” he said.