Gold has been the star performer of 2019, but does the gold rush have further to run? We consider prospects looking ahead. Over the past few decades, investors have operated with a background of certain assumptions: that governments would put the interests of the economy first, that capitalism was assured and that globalisation was inevitable. Increasingly, those assumptions are being undermined – and as they have evaporated, so has the idea of what constitutes a “safe” asset. However, there appears to be one investment haven on which investors can agree – gold. In contrast to a relatively pedestrian price gain of just over 2% for the FTSE 100 index over the past 12 months to mid-October, the gold price is up 21%. Gold mining companies, which tend to offer an accelerated option on the raw material price, are up almost 40% in sterling terms, according to Refinitiv. The recent strength comes after a wobbly few years for gold, which have seen it struggle to break above $1,350. Its rise coincides neatly with 2019’s falls in US interest rates. This is no coincidence, points out Chris Mahoney, assistant portfolio manager of the Merian Gold & Silver fund. He says that the clearest indication of the likely path of the gold price is the “real yield” on government bonds. The real yield looks at interest rates less inflation. If a government bond has an income of 1%, but inflation sits at 3%, the real yield is negative (-2%). Investors tend to turn to gold when that real yield turns negative. Mahoney says: “Gold doesn’t pay a coupon or a dividend – therefore it costs investors to own it. This is particularly true if you operate good custody practices and buy insurance.” This opportunity cost is lower when real yields are lower. Gold has also had undoubted appeal as a safe haven in troubled times. The policy U-turn by central banks suggests they do not have full command over the global economic situation. This, alongside an unpredictable White House, the rise of populism, deglobalisation and questions over the future of capitalism itself, have led to a feeling of instability from which gold has certainly benefited. Gold’s role as a safe-haven asset has precedent. It has a robust history of a rising price in troubled times. It rose from $672 to $1,096, for example, during the global financial crisis of 2007/09. It has generally thrived during recessions, notably in the early 1970s and early 2000s. In contrast, it has generally done badly when everything is rosy when economic conditions are benign, inflation is under control and monetary policy is normal.