Two suspected Internet fraudsters popularly called ‘yahoo yahoo boys’ who specialized in defrauding unsuspecting foreigners of their valuables have been arrested by the police in Lagos. The suspects, Salami Olaide and Olamide Adeyemi, were arrested by a team of policemen led by Inspector Lawal while on patrol at Opebi, Ikeja area of Lagos. Police said they were arrested while the police team on stop and search and they intercepted one Toyota corolla with registration number KSf 462 FT with three occupants of the vehicle who were two boys, a girl and the driver. “A distress call was, however, put across to the Area commander “F” Ikeja, ACP Akinbayo Olasoji when the suspects were proving difficult and another two patrol team were sent to rescue the situation. “Also when a search was conducted on them, the policemen recovered some substance suspected to be hard drugs. “The suspects were eventually taken to the station and another search was conducted on their bags and some charms were also found on them.” In their statements, they admitted that they were into internet/cyber fraudsters and had defrauded many people. One of the suspects, Adeyemi olamide, confessed that he defrauded his victim, one Daniel Nix from California, USA, and that he posed as a lady called Sharon, who was 35- years old from Nigeria and the victim thought the person was actually a woman. “It all started since last year and sometime in September 2019, the victim sent him $300USD and one iPhone, which he received and claimed to have sold the phone.” He said. While the other suspect, Salami Olaide, who also used an online platform where he claimed to give grants, loans and financial assistance to people online. He also claimed to be an agent, who lured victims who required his services to fill forms online and after paying the registration fees he would block the victim. He added that he has defrauded many people online. The police, however, said that the suspects are currently in detention while investigation is progress.