Temidayo Akinsuyi; Francis Onoiribholo Lagos / Benin – A planned controversial rally by a faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State has been suspended by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, who cited “overriding internal security interests” as reason for the decision. The rally was slated for today at Garrick Memorial College, Ekenwan Road, Benin City.
But youths on Thursday besieged major streets in the Benin metropolis protesting the event which, they said, was going to endanger the state’s security as a result of cult-related clashes.
The decision of the police was communicated in a letter to the Edo State deputy governor, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu, and signed by the principal staff officer to the IGP, ACP Idowu Owohunwa.
In the letter, the police said: “In cognisance of the security consequences of the proposed mega rally, I am to confirm that the Inspector General of Police has directed the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Command, to emplace appropriate security framework that is directed at suspending the rally until further notice.
“He has also been directed to summon a meeting of all parties involved in the political development with a view to engaging them towards giving effect to his directives in overriding internal security interests.”
The state commissioner of police last night sealed up the venue of the rally, deploying his men to condone off all the roads and streets leading to the place.
The rally had reportedly been planned by the faction of the party loyal to Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, their national chairman, at which the party would have received Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, a former chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and his supporters into its fold.
Going by a document sighted by our correspondent, the IGP had earlier assured Oshiomhole that the police would provide adequate security at the venue of the rally.
However, Governor Godwin Obaseki had said, as the chief security officer of the state, he was not aware of any rally.
In a chat with journalists after the meeting with head of security agencies in the state at Government House, Benin City, the governor said: “I have checked with the state APC secretariat and, as far as I am concerned, the party has not announced officially that they will be having a rally.”
Our correspondent, however, sighted a letter written by Ize-Iyamu inviting Governor Obaseki to the rally.
In the letter, Ize-Iyamu said despite several attempts to book an appointment with the governor to discuss his defection to the APC, it did not yield the desired result.
He said he had to send a text message to Obaseki concerning the date of the rally as it was impossible to reach him on phone.
The letter reads: “Compliments of the season. You will kindly recall my phone conversations with you wherein I informed you of my decision to resign from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) alongside several others and return to the All Progressives Congress.
“I had requested in those conversations for an appointment with you to discuss our formal declaration but unfortunately could not secure a date from you for the appointment.
“When the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomole, graciously gave us a convenient date to attend the declaration, I had to send you a text communicating the information since I could not reach you by phone.
“Your Excellency, I hold you in the highest esteem and we are coming back to the APC to help strengthen the party.
“I wish to formally invite you as the leader of the party in the state to our formal declaration on Friday 13th December 2019 at Garrick Memorial School, Benin-City, at 11a.m. I will be most delighted and honoured if you can attend this event.”
Ize-Iyamu confirmed he actually wrote the letter to the governor, personally inviting him to the rally.
Also speaking, Edo State APC chairman, Barr Anselm Ojezua, said the attention of the party had been drawn to a piece of information being circulated by some unauthorised persons to the effect that the APC in the state was receiving some new members on Friday 13, December, 2019 at Garrick Memorial School, Ekenwan Road, Benin City.
He noted that neither the state governor, Obaseki, who is the leader of the APC in Edo State, nor other leaders of the party were aware of the purported declaration rally, adding, “It is, therefore, highly provocative and capable of creating breach of peace.”
Ojezua urged members of the APC in the state not to have anything to do with the event, adding, “The organisers of that event are sufficiently seasoned and experienced as politicians to know the proper procedure and tradition usually attendant to this sort of event.”
Another chieftain of the party in Edo state, Andrew Etokhana, said it was an anomaly for Oshiomhole to have written a letter to the IGP requesting for police protection while the governor who is the chief security officer was not aware.
In a similarly belligerent tone, a socio-cultural youth group in Edo State, Edo Youth Vanguard, had sent strong warning to the national leadership of the party to steer clear of Edo State on the planned rally.
The group urged President Muhammadu Buhari to call Oshiomhole to order over his support for a rally that had the potential of creating crisis and breaching the fragile peace in the state.
In a statement issued in Benin by its president, Nosakhare Oseghale, and Secretary General, Edward Ikhide, the EYV had questioned the rationale behind the proposed rally, stating that the timing and approach were not only wide off the mark but had the sinister motives of eventually fomenting pandemonium to create an impression of anarchy in the state. Edo APC Crisis ‘Tragic And Unfortunate’, Says Oyegun
Meanwhile, former national chairman of APC, John Oyegun, on Thursday spoke on the crisis rocking his party in Edo, describing it as “tragic and unfortunate”.
Oyegun, who was first executive governor of Edo, spoke with newsmen on the sideline of the 22nd investiture of the Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM) in Lagos.
Oyegun said that the rift between Gov. Godwin Obaseki and APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomole, brought to fore the dangers of godfatherism in the nation’s politics.
“When principles are involved in an argument, it is very hard to wade in, especially expecting that one party surrenders principle to another.
“It is a good thing to mentor somebody, to have an elder, more experienced to help bring up the younger one.
“But when you have mentored him, and he has attained maturity and growth, do not keep treating him like a child,” Oyegun said.
He, however, revealed that efforts were ongoing to address the matter and bring peace to the party’s affairs of the state.
Oyegun lauded the performance of the state governor and reiterated his support for the great stride the state was recording.