GOMBE – Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has blamed the immediate past administration of Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo for plunging the state into the league of the two most corrupt states in the country. The governor was reacting to a rating of most corrupt states in the country where Gombe was placed second after Kogi State by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in Abuja, last Friday. According to Governor Inuwa, who spoke during the 2019 International Anti-          Corruption Day celebration and rally organised by the EFCC at the Pantami Stadium, the investigation which indicted the state was carried out before the birth of his administration on May 29, 2019. He said the immediate past administration of Dankwambo was responsible for the disappointing and negative statistics due to the way the administration plundered the resources of the state especially at the tail end of the administration. He called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate and do the needful, while assuring that his government was ready to support and join in the fight against corruption. He said despite the bailout funds, budget support and Paris Club refunds received by the administration of Dankwambo, the state was still burdened by the N14.2 billion for pension and gratuity. Speaking earlier, the Northeast zonal head of the EFCC, Michael Wetkas, said the day is set aside by the United Nations to remind the World corruption is a known common enemy that spates no nation, race or creed. He said resolution 58/4 of October 31, 2003 of the UN General Assembly had set aside December 9 annually to mobilise against corruption at a global level. According to him, “It is reported that in Nigeria alone, an estimated 400 billion US dollars had been stolen away from Independence to this moment. “While other advanced countries seem to have made giant strides in taming this scourge and some gaining stability, our dear country seems to be spinning badly from the blow of corruption. “It is obviously the recognition of this that President Muhammadu Buhari made it a leading agenda of this administration with the ambition and determination to rid the country of the menace” and quoted the President saying “if we don’t kill corruption, corruption will kill Nigeria.”