Abakaliki – A middle aged man identified as Mr. Chinasa Ogbaga, a native of Egwuagu Okpuitumo community in Abakaliki Local Government Area (LGA) of Ebonyi State, at the weekend allegedly killed his two children with the third one left half-dead. Daily Independent gathered that the man committed the act late hours of Saturday night when the villagers and other family members had gone to bed. He was alleged to have taken the children to the bush one after the other where he killed them. Names of the two murdered children were: Chikamso Ogbaga, six years, Chizaram Ogbaga, four-year-old girl; while Emmanuel Ogbaga, a 2-year-old boy, was lucky to have been rescued half-dead from the hands of his father. He was rushed to the Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki (AE-FETHA), where he is receiving medical attention. It was gathered that the suspect early February this year, divorced his wife who gave birth to the three children. It was also gathered that the accused was seen on that fateful Saturday evening sharpening a cutlass, saying that he would be using the cutlass for frog hunting. The suspect has been handed over to police for investigation and prosecution. Speaking with the suspect’s mother, Mrs. Ogbaga, who spoke to our reporter in tears, said that Chinasa divorced his wife early this year but had been living with his children peacefully before the incident. She said the suspect was the one also training the children in school and had been visiting home regularly from Onitcha, Anambra State, where he lived. “I discovered recently that my son has an ogbanje (possessed by evil spirit) and I think that must have been the cause of his action,” the aged woman who spoke in her dialect said. Also in an interview, Mr. Emmanuel Nwambam, an uncle to the suspect, described the incident as shocking. He said: “Mr. Chinasa Ogbaga is a vulcanizer based in Onitsha, Anambra State. He returned home as usual and the following day he joined his mother to the farm. “When they came back from the farm, he was seen sharpening the cutlass that fateful evening, which he later used for the barbaric act. Unfortunately, nobody knew his plans. Though, he is not violent and was not having any quarrel with anybody. “After committing the crime, he met a vigilance officer in the village who interrogated him for moving with a cutlass at night. From there, it was discovered he had butchered his three children,” he said. Nwambam further told our reporter that when he was rounded up by the villagers, he confessed to have killed his two children and left the youngest half-dead. He described the action of the suspect as an abomination. Loveth Odah, the Ebonyi State Police Public Relations Officer, confirmed that the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ekumenyi Division had reported the incident to the State Command, adding that the matter was still being investigated.