NNEWI – Chief Ike Oligbo (Ike Edeke), a United Kingdom (UK) based businessman, security expert and lawyer, has declared interest to contest for 2021 governorship election under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State. Oligbo who declared his interest to run for the governorship with full support of party faithful at Awka, the state capital, in his speech entitled, “My Contract with Ndi Anambra” said he would return the state to rightful position if he emerges the candidate of the party and wins the governorship poll. While rolling out his 9-point agenda, he commended the former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, whom he said, made laudable achievement and impact on building the state and taken it to the highest level in governance. “My dear good people of Anambra State, I feel highly privileged and elated to stand before you all today to publicly decal red my sincere intention to serve you as Chief Steward of Anambra State in 2021, God keeping us alive. Let me add with all sense of responsibility and modesty that I am very much aware of the enormity of work to be done in order to place our dear state which has produced so many firsts and bright minds in the spheres of education, civil service, military, literature, health, politics, entrepreneurship, sports, administration, among others. “Yes, while some of the administrations had performed poorly, some others record average performance, while the immediate past administration of Mr. Peter Obi made the most appreciable impact in building the state through his integrated approach to governance, predicated on the highest degree of probity and accountability; the most vital ingredients germane to pulling Anambra from the woods; it is in a bid to reinvent that administration and improve on the standard already set by Obi,” he stated. On education, Oligbo said that he would introduce free and compulsory nine years of education in order to make the state a literate state. This, he said, would be done along with providing highly subsidised senior secondary and high institution education.