Osogbo – No fewer than three persons lost their lives in a ghastly auto crash which occurred on Wednesday, Christmas day, along the Toro Road Cooperative Area of Modakeke in Ife East Local Government Area of Osun State. An eyewitness revealed that the accident occurred in the night about 10.30p.m when the driver of the Nissan Xterra SUV, driving at high speed, lost control and hit eight persons, including a little boy walking on the walkway of the road. The car with registration number, MUS 741 DR, was set ablaze by an angry mob before police arrived at the scene of the accident. The spokesperson of the state police command, Folasade Odoro, confirmed the incident, saying the three persons died on the spot while the remaining victims were taken to bafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital in Ile-Ife. She said: “The fatal accident happened at 10:30p.m. at Cooperative Area, along Toro road, where a yet to be identified driver of the said vehicle lost control and subsequently knocked down eight persons, including a little baby. “In a spontaneous reaction, the irate crowd set the vehicle ablaze before the intervention of the police while three of the victims were feared dead on the spot. “The deceased and the others were, however, rushed to OAUTHC for medical attention.” She noted that the command had commenced investigation into the matter. Similarly, two pedestrians were killed by a Honda SUV which drove against the traffic around Ibafo area on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on Christmas Day. Clement Oladele, Ogun Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), said three others were injured in the accident. Oladele said a Honda Element SUV, with registration number, KSF 946 DB, drove against the traffic and knocked down two pedestrians waiting to board a commercial bus, killing them instantly and injuring three others. The FRSC official attributed the cause of the accident to route violation and speeding leading to loss of control. “The corpses of the victims have been deposited at Fakoya Hospital, Sagamu, while the survivors are receiving treatment at Idera Hospital, Sagamu, Ogun,” he said. Oladele advised motorists to desist from driving against traffic and adhere strictly to traffic rules and regulations to avoid unnecessary loss of lives and property.