Marc-André ter Stegen born on April30, 1992. He is a German professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Spanish club Barcelona and the Germany national team. Ter Stegen is of Dutch descent through his father. He married his longtime girlfriend, Daniela Jehle, on 15 July 2017 in Sitges, near Barcelona After four seasons in the Bundesliga with Borussia Mönchengladbach, making 108 league appearances, he joined Barcelona for €12 million in 2014. He won the treble in his first season in Spain, playing for Barcelona in Copa del Rey and UEFA Champions League (UCL). Ter Stegen represented Germany at several youth levels and made his senior international debut in 2012. He was part of the German squads that reached the semi-finals of UEFA Euro 2016 and won the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup, and was also a member of the German side that took part at the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Ter Stegen has been described as a tall, agile and consistent goalkeeper, with quick reflexes, good decision-making and excellent shot-stopping abilities between the posts; he is also strong in the air, good in one-on-one situations, and effective at communicating with his back-line courtesy of his strong personality. Due to his ability to read the game and speed when rushing off his line, he is able to anticipate opponents outside the area who have beaten the offside trap. Being highly competent with the ball at his feet, he is known for his control and accurate distribution of the ball, and often functions as a sweeper-keeper, due to his ability to play the ball out from the back. Moreover, he possesses good fundamental goalkeeping technique, and a strong positional sense.[60] Regarded as a highly promising player in his youth,[61] he has since established himself as one of the best goalkeepers in world football. Marc-Andre ter Stegen summed up his 2019 as being a year of “highs and lows,” and with very good reason. He experienced moments of real joy, including a title in LaLiga with FC Barcelona and qualifying for UEFA EURO 2020 with Germany. But alongside those were bitter disappointments, like his side’s UEFA Champions League (UCL) elimination in a disastrous semi-final second leg and their Copa del Rey final defeat. Results aside, Ter Stegen unquestionably established himself as one of the finest keepers in the world this year, as evidenced by his presence among the finalists for The Best FIFA Goalkeeper Award 2019. Not content to rest on his laurels, the player wants to achieve even more in the year to come. The 27-year-old German made time for a chat with FIFA.com, looking back on 2019 and revealing some of his upcoming targets. Marc-Andre, how would you sum up your 2019? It was a year of many ups and downs, as often happens. Obviously, both [FC Barcelona] and I always strive to be as successful as possible. We won a lot of games but unfortunately couldn’t make it to the UEFA Champions League (UCL) final. Nevertheless, I think we had a good year overall as a team. What lessons will your club have learned this year? We’re always trying to improve. Last season we won the league and had a lot of ambitious goals. Unfortunately, we failed to realise them in the UEFA Champions League (UCL) and Copa del Rey. But that’s football. You never know what’s going to happen, although I think we took lot of experience from it and can learn from the bad things that happened. It seems like winning the UEFA Champions League (UCL) is, if not the main goal for the club, then one of the most important. Is that the case? Yes, always, every year. That’s an easy question to answer. At this club we always want to win every available title. Every one of them is important, and the UEFA Champions League (UCL), obviously, even more so. We’ve started well and want to go a very long way [in the competition]. On the international level, Germany stamped their ticket for EURO 2020 but also experienced some difficulties. On balance, how would you assess things? That’s normal. We made changes and the system is a little different. It’s not uncommon to have some highs and lows. The team is younger than before, with less experience, but we played important games against the Netherlands, which helped us develop. However, there’s still room for progression ahead of EURO 2020. Germany fans can be very demanding, even during a period of transition. Do you feel pressure to get results? There’s always pressure. People want us to win – they’re used to us winning. But it’s not always easy, let alone with such a young team. I think the fans should have a little patience with us. We always try to give our all for our country, and we know the kind of commitment this takes. What are your wishes for 2020? The most important thing for me is always family and friends, so my wish is for them to have health and happiness. Time will look after everything else and I know that if I work hard, the results will come.