LAGOS – Stakeholders in the power sector and electricity distribution companies in the country,yesterday bickered over the 43billion revenue increase which the latter claimed it recorded in the last one year. Some of the stakeholders, who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT yesterday,said the revenue increase the power firms claimed to have achieved should be taken with a pinch of salt,especially against the backdrop of recent default of revenue remittances by most power electricity distribution companies in the country. ‘’Sorry,this data is not from the right source.It is mere propaganda which cannot stand.If the claim is a success,how come at least eight electricity distribution companies are in default of remittances,’’ a senior official of the Senior Staff of Electricity and Allied Companies(SSEAC),told DAILY INDEPENDENT The Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos), had yesterday disclosed their revenue has increase by N43 billion in the last one year. Mr Sunday Oduntan, Director, Research and Advocacy, Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED),who disclosed this in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday,said the increase has reduced their Aggregate Technical, Commercial and Collection (ATC&C) losses to 45 per cent. Oduntan said that from October 2018 to June 2019, the 10 DisCos raised their energy revenue to N466 billion. He said that this was higher than the N423 billion collected from customers between October 2017 and September 2018 when the collection efficiency was 65 per cent. “The DisCos also raised their collection efficiency to collect money for energy supplied to customers by 67 per cent. “This was higher than the N423 billion they collected from their customers between October 2017 and September 2018 when the collection efficiency was 65 per cent. “This is a reflection of DisCos’ commitment to reduce losses, even within the context of the financial crisis of the power sector,” he said. Oduntan said that the DisCos, while increasing their collections by N43 billion in a year, by a rate that represents over 10 per cent of improvement, also raised billing efficiency by five per cent during the period under review. According to him, an analysis of Key Performance Indicators (KPI) submitted to the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) shows that the DisCos reduced their ATC&C losses by 3.6 per cent within one year. “The ATC&C was 49 per cent in 2018 and has been reduced to 45 per cent in 2019. “The reduction is even more significant, relative to a starting point of 54 per cent, at handover, and within the context of liquidity challenges and lack of access to capital for investment,” he said.