Lagos – Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has said “we must educate ourselves about the way politics is played in our society, from the smallest level all the way to the top.” Sanwo-Olu said this while delivering the University of Lagos (UNILAG) Faculty of Engineering Alumni Association’s (UNILAGFEAA) Third Alumni Lecture, titled: ‘Professionals In Politics, Panacea For Sustainable National Development’ at the institution on Thursday. He urged the citizens to stay engaged at all times and resist the temptation to stay aloof or give in to despair when things do not happen the way they would like them to. The governor, who said that politics takes a lot of learning and unlearning, added: “As an engineer or doctor or banker, your training makes you take precision very seriously. Any hint of ‘compromise’ in any of these fields would immediately suggest professional misconduct.” Stating that Nigeria’s development would not happen outside of politics and political activity, Sanwo-Olu said, “All of the countries we look up to deployed political leadership to take the decisions that set them on the path of development. And this did not happen overnight. “But it is very important for us to prepare ourselves for politics. As professionals working outside the sphere of partisan politics, it is not enough to go into politics armed only with your professional skills. “If we complain that it is politics that has robbed Nigeria of many opportunities in its history, then we must also be willing to concede that it is politics that will redeem us and set things right.” The governor said, “We must acknowledge the power that politics has to shape our lives and our societies for good or ill,” adding that “It is arguably the most potent tool that exists for influencing the course of a society. We owe, to a great extent, our happiness or unhappiness to the way politics is played on our behalf. “Politics in Nigeria definitely needs more professionals, more ‘outsiders’, not less. Politics thrives best in the face of diversity. It thrives on different professional callings bringing different skill-sets and perspectives to the table.”