OSOGBO – The administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola recently rolled out the drums to celebrate 365 days in office of the continue reign of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The administration is an off shoot of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola’s government which governed the state for eight years between November 2010 and 2018. It continued from where Aregbesola stopped even as some argued that there was no difference between the past and present administration in Osun State. Oyetola and his team went through a very strong political tide to emerge and the government is gradually mending fences with those that fell out with it during to the struggle. Notwithstanding the current scenario with Aregbesola, the administration of Oyetola is trying to change the leadership style and approaches perceived to be offensive to the workers and some residents of the state in the last one year of his administration. Some of Aregbesola’s apologists who were not disposed to such moves have been relegated to the back seat and nursing grudges of alleged neglect while those who spearheaded Oyetola’s campaign now take the centre stage of governance of the state. Oyetola’s refusal to back the ministerial nominee of Aregbesola is also causing disaffection between the two leaders and their followers in the state. Oyetola was said to have opted for Senator Christopher Iyiola Omisore as a ministerial nominee because he and some of his loyalists in Social Democratic Party (SDP) under the platform he (Omisore) contested the governorship seat with Oyetola, helped the latter to conveniently win the September 27, 2018 rerun election in Osun State. In spite of the initial hiccups, Oyetola’s government has made some remarkable achievements within the last one year, among which is ensuring and sustaining good relationship with public workers through the payment of their full salaries, except for the arrears owed by the last administration. The payment of salaries to workers no doubt has enhanced the popularity and acceptance of Oyetola’s government by the people. The governor, in his state-wide broadcast, rendered a comprehensive account of his stewardship, describing the last one year as one of remarkable record of great strides, saying the administration prioritised the welfare of workers. Oyetola’s government is giving attention to the mining sector by regulating it, enhancing security in the mining areas, containing activities of marauders and making it attractive to investors. Thus, the government has raised the hope of a great future for the state and changed the perception of Osun as a civil servant state with no commercial potential. Also the government has committed heavy resources into agriculture through programmes such as Osun Broiler Outgrowers Production Scheme (O-BOPS) and empowerment of poultry farmers through O-BOPS. The government has renovated, reconstructed and revitalised 332 primary health care centres (PHCs) in each ward, rehabilitated and fully equipped 10 general hospitals, implemented the Osun Health Insurance Scheme (OHIS) with more than 75% of the public servants enrolled with their spouses and four biological or legally adopted children amounting to about 200,000 persons entitled to receive treatment from both government and private hospitals of their choice with only 10% payment of the cost of drugs whenever they access care. Oyetola’s government has constructed 32 blocks of 167 classrooms to accommodate 8350 students/pupils/teachers in 32 government elementary/middle schools, 43 units of six holes squatting toilets for 43 elementary and middle schools across the state, 14 units, 6 holes squatting toilets with deep well at 14 government elementary/middle schools, repair/renovation works at 31 government elementary and middle schools, procurement/supply of 3,040 units of pupils’ furniture for 6080 pupils in elementary schools, 3,180 units of students’ furniture for 6360 students in middle schools and furniture for 967 teachers. Osun State now looks inwards and moving gradually from excessive dependence on the Federal Allocation, as evident in the recently convened Economic and Investment Summit which attracted top-rated investors and policy makers across the globe. Leveraging on the gains and commitments of the three-day event would assist the government achieve its goal of full economic diversification. Comrade Jacobs Adekomi, State Chairman of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), commended the government for prioritising workers’ salaries, stressing that the gesture has added a boost to the state’s economy. He appealed to the governor to ensure the full payment of all arrears owed by the immediate past administration to workers. But, the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has punctured Oyetola’s record of achievements, describing it as fake and shocking. Sunday Bisi, PDP’s Publicity Secretary, insists that nothing tangible has been achieved by the. He explained that the government has not done anything expected of it in the last one year, adding that it was shocking that during the Economic Summit, Mr. Governor was commissioning pots and kitchen utensils, without new ideas. Bisi also faulted the claim of payment of salary, stressing that how would government claim to be paying salaries as and when due, when it had closed its eyes on the arrears owed the public servants. On the school feeding programme, the PDP noted that the administration was claiming glory to the programme which was started by Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola-led PDP government, wondering why Oyetola rolled out drums to celebrate it with commissioning of pots and kitchen utensils. On the renovation and reconstruction of primary health care centres, the PDP argued that it was not an initiative of the APC government in the state, but a grant released to the state by the Federal Government. He said: “The administration of Adegboyega Oyetola has not initiated any new programme in the last one year. He only embarked on patching of pot holes on the roads and for the first six months into the office, Governor Oyetola and few others were those running the affairs of the state without the appointment of commissioners. “So in essence, Governor Oyetola-led administration is only celebrating what others have done while in office in the last 10 years. He is bereft of ideas and too slow for the people of the state. Governor Oyetola’s media aide, Ismail Omipidan, in response, saying there was never a time “we ever commissioned pots”. “We only inaugurated over 2000 food vendors who were empowered with cooking utensils.  Again, even at that the event was never in the lineup of the series of activities to mark our first year in office, as the event took place more than a week before one year anniversary celebrations took off.” Omipidan said, “We have prioritised the completion of ongoing projects, opened up access roads to evacuate agricultural produce, rehabilitated existing roads and maintained urban and rural roads. “We have continued funding the dualisation of  Gbongan–Akoda dual carriage way, Adebisi Akande Trumpet Interchange Bridge and Osogbo (Old Garage)-Ikirun-Ila-Odo-Erinle-Kwara State Boundary. These are Federal Roads that span a total of 66 kilometres, but the present administration has given priority to these projects and we will not relent in our efforts until the projects are completed, considering the multiplier effects on the state economy. The Osogbo-Iwo Road is undergoing rehabilitation. “So far, not less than 55 kilometres of roads have been rehabilitated throughout the three Senatorial Districts. We have continued with our aggressive campaign of opening up the rural areas. As at today, 206 kilometres of rural roads have been completed”, Omipidan added. Oyetola’s aide said that the government has created conducive environment in all public schools through the repair/renovation works at 31 government elementary and middle schools, procurement/supply of 3,040 units of pupils’ furniture for 6080 pupils in elementary schools, procurement/supply of 3,180 units of students’ furniture for 6360 students in middle school and Procurement/supply of furniture for 967 teachers. “We have also constructed 43 units of 6 holes squatting toilets for 43 elementary and middle schools across the State, drilling and reticulation of boreholes and 9 public elementary and middle schools and construction of block wall fence at 30 government elementary/middle school to avoid encroachment and provide security for government properties. “Also, to further ensure universal health coverage for our people, we have commenced a revitalisation programme of 322 primary health centers across the state, one per ward. Of these, over 100 have been completed and are being commissioned in batches. Additionally, we have also embarked on the rehabilitation of nine general hospitals across the state, provided with modern equipment in the hospitals, supplied with drugs, and also enhanced capacity building through the training and retraining of staff with the employment of technology to further improve health care delivery reduction of water borne diseases in the state.”