Jos – Plateau state governor Simon Lalong has signed his state’s 2020 budget of One Hundred and Seventy Seven Billion, Three Hundred and Forty Million, Five Hundred and Twenty One Thousand, Seven Hundred and Seventy Four Naira (N177,340,521,177.00) only into law. Governor Lalong, while signing the bill into law at Government Jos, said four billion, seven hundred and fourty four million, two hundred and four thousand, one hundred and ninety seven naira (N4,744,204,197.00) only representing 2.67% increase over the Executive’s Proposal that was submitted to the house. According to him, his government has examined and noted that the larger part of the budget adjustments were on Capital Expenditure and within the Annual Budget Growth. “We shall in implementing the budget ensure fiscal discipline especially as we envisage your ardent commitment to oversight for the common good,” he stressed. He disclosed further that the Commissioner of Budget and Planning will be making a public presentation to give full details of the approved budget subsequently. Lalong noted that, with the budget approved and signed into law, he has given matching orders directing the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Planning and indeed all MDAs to ensure effective implementation of the 2020 Budget. He disclosed on the efforts being made to meet the state revenue targets especially the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) which is crucial to funding the 2020 budget. The Plateau government he said was setting new targets for the State Internal Revenue Service, saying his Government has approved the appointment of a reputable revenue expert to facilitate the maximisation of internally generated revenue accruable to the state as their wish is to generate more money through this engagement. “This and more we must do if we are to implement the 2020 Budget and address the deficit which hovers in the region of over N32 billion. Like I stated while laying the budget on the floor of the House, funds will be sourced locally and internationally to close this deficit gap as the need arises,” he said. He disclosed further that his government is determined to continue to enhance its capacity and track record of prudence, accountability and transparency in expending public fund. He then directed all Heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies in the state to fully cooperate with Members of the House who will in course of the year be embarking on oversight visits to follow up on the implementation of the budget.