LAGOS – As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to their host communities, the Lagos chapter of the Nigerian Institution of Surveyors (NIS) recently held its annual stakeholders interactive session with the Igando/Ikotun Local Council Development Area (LCDA). The stakeholders’ interactive session which took place at the palace of Oba Lasisi Gbadamosi, the Onigando of Igando, was anchored by Deji Sebiotimo, Secretary General, Lagos NIS, and intended to intimate the seven wards that constitute Igando/Ikotun LCDA of the activities of surveyors; the dangers of patronising quack surveyors as well as to feel the pulse of the community members on issues relating to surveying activities within their environment. While introducing his team, Adeshina Adeleke, chairman of the chapter disclosed that it was the tradition of the institution to visit various communities and keep them abreast of the surveyor’s responsibilities to them. Adeleke noted that Igando/Ikotun LCDA was not the first they will be visiting as they had visited several other areas such as Imota, Ibeju Lekki, Ijede and lots more. So, he said they were there to answer whatever questions they have as it relates to surveying practice. While welcoming the team, Oba Gbadamosi lamented that the NIS crew came at a time when a lot had gone wrong in the area of land surveying in their LCDA. He however, expressed optimism that their visit portends good news and will very likely right all the anomalies that have been prevalent in land surveying in the area. He also pleaded with members of the NIS to reconsider their scale of fees for the Igando/Ikotun LCDA which is categorized in the Zone B surveying scale of fees, as according to him, beyond not have access to some basic social amenities in the area, their people cannot afford to pay such cost. The Oba also requested that surveyors conduct due diligence to ascertain the rightful ownership of lands whenever they are contracted for surveying jobs. In his response to the Oba, Gbenga Alara, former chairman of the institution explained that there are indices applied in fixing surveying fees as well as parameters considered in zoning of areas. “We are all registered in Abuja and responsible to some people who gave us the authority to carry out surveying. It is the responsibility of whoever engaged the surveyor to explain ownership of the land while it is our own responsibility as surveyors to chart the land.” Also, Ademola Akomolafe, chairman, Association of Private Practicing Surveyors of Nigeria (APPSN) took the representatives of the wards through the processes of identifying a registered surveyor and advised that they always request for the registration number of anyone who approaches them as a surveyor.