ASABA – The controversy between Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa and a human rights lawyer, Mr. Omes Ogedegbe, challenging the appointment of Samuel Azubuike as Director General of the Delta State Traffic Management Agency (DETSMA), has taken a fresh dimension. Okowa had asked the State House of Assembly, to confirm the appointment of the retired Navy Commander, who is slated to undergo lawmakers’ screening on Tuesday, December 3, 2019. The appointee who was alleged to have resumed as DESTMA Director General since September 23, is about to be confirmed by the Delta State House of Assembly as the substantive Director General of the traffic management agency. Azubuike will be taking over from the former Director General of DESTMA and renowned international traffic expert, Olorogun Stephen Dieseruvwe. Ogedegbe had approached the State High Court sitting in Ughelli, asking it to quash the appointment of Azubuike, alleging that Okowa failed to comply with the Act establishing the agency in the appointment. In the suit marked UHC/171/019, Ogedegbe is seeking a declaration of the court that the purported appointment of Azubuike who was until now the Director of Operations at DESTMA without confirmation of the Delta State House of assembly, runs contrary to Section 12(1) of the DESTMA Law, 2013. The originating summon had the state governor, Delta State House of Assembly, DESTMA and Azubuike Idah (Rtd) as 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Respondents respectively. Ogedegbe in the suit claimed that the 3rd respondent (Azubuike) does not poses the required cognate experience as traffic management expert to be appointed into the position by the governor. Citing relevant portions of DESTMA, the rights activist in another relief, prayed that, “A declaration that the appointment of the 4th respondent (Idah) as DG of the 3rd respondent (DESTMA), without the required ten (10) years cognate experience in traffic management, is in violation of Section 12 (3) of the Delta State Traffic Management Authority Law, 2013.” Facts made available indicate that Azubuike was first appointed as Head of Operations of the agency in 2016. It was further gathered that it was the first time he would be working as a traffic management officer, thus lacks the requisite 10 years cognate experience in road traffic management or other related matters to qualify his elevation to the office of Director General. Okowa’s confirmation request letter was read by the Speaker, Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, during plenary on Thursday. The governor in the letter said the nomination was in exercise of the powers conferred on him by section 12, sub-section 1 of the law establishing the DESTMA of 2013. He said he would appreciate if a prompt action were taken to place the name of the nominee before the House for consideration and confirmation to enable him effect his appointment in line with the law. The Majority Leader, Hon Tim Owhefere moved a motion for the House to receive the letter for further consideration and was seconded by the Minority Leader, Hon Innocent Anidi before being adopted. Oborevwori thereafter directed the nominee to submit 35 copies of his CV to the office of the Clerk on or before December 2, 2019 and appear for screening on Tuesday December 3, 2019. Meanwhile, when the matter came up for hearing last Thursday, the court could not proceed as the bailiff informed the court that the 4th respondent, Commander Azubuike (rtd) avoided personal service. The matter was then adjourned to January 21, 2020 for adoption of written addresses.