Akure – Mr. Agoola Ajayi, the Deputy Governor of Ondo State, has dismissed as rumour the alleged dispute between him and his boss, Governor Oluwatotimi Akeredolu, over the 2020 governorship election in the state. He made the denial at the weekend while addressing the people of Apoi in Eseodo Local Government Area of the state. Ajayi ascribed the alleged crisis to political jobbers, who he said were seeking attention and patronage from the government. This was contained in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the deputy governor, Babatope Okeowo, and made available to Daily Independent in Akure on Sunday. The statement read in part: “There have been insinuations in some quarters that Ajayi has fallen out with Governor Akeredolu over the re-election bid of the governor. “It was also rumoured that Ajayi would dump the All Progressives Congress (APC) in order to contest the governorship election or would contest the party’s ticket with the governor. “But Ajayi, who was speaking at the Praise Night organised by the people of Apoi, said the people should not worry themselves about the rumour that he was fighting the governor. “He blamed the reported dispute on those seeking to cause crisis in the State Executive Council in order to reap political benefits ahead of next year’s governorship election.” The Deputy Governor said: “I rejoice with the entire Apoi kingdom on this occasion of Praise Night. You must have been hearing one or two comments here and there about a conflict between meand the governor. Don’t worry yourself. “It is normal thing in politics. “The governor and myself are doing very well. We are brothers and we are working together for the progress of Ondo State. “I commend the Kalasuwe of Apoiland for this initiative. I pray it continues every year.” Ajayi, however, delivered the governor’s greetings to the people of Apoi and wished them a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year in advance. The deputy governor, however, cautioned the people to be wary of job seekers whose stock in trade is cheap blackmail and political propaganda. In his address, the Kalasuwe of Apoiland, Prof Sunday Amuseghan, explained that the Praise Night was organised to appreciate God for His protection over the kingdom.