LAGOS – Last week Thursday, President Muhammadu Buhari, suspended the new board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The board, headed by Dr. Pius Odubu as chairman, and Bernard Okumagba from Delta State, as Group Managing Director, was never inaugurated since the members were cleared by the Senate. The board was appointed as Buhari ordered a forensic audit of the agency. As the list of the board members was still in the Senate, Senator Godswill Akpabio, Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, which supervises the NDDC, announced the constitution of a three-man Interim Management Committee (IMC) headed by Dr Gbene Joi Nunieh as Acting Managing Director for the agency, thus igniting a controversy over who should be in charge, the board or the management committee. Since then, some of the stakeholders called for Akpabio’s removal, while others wanted the supervision of the NDDC to be removed from ministry. They felt that the minister, a former governor, was among those who could be affected by the forensic audit. They saw his announcement of the management committee as suspicious. The Senate refused to attend to the IMC members while considering the budget of the NDDC. The Senate said it would rather deal with the board than the committee. But, last Thursday, Buhari suspended the board, saying it would be recomposed and inaugurated after the forensic planned audit. Buhari’s media aide, Mr Femi Adesina, in a statement, said, “The President has also directed that the Interim Management Team of the NDDC shall be in place till the forensic is completed and that the supervision of the commission shall remain under the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs.” Reacting, IJaw Youth Congress (IYC) commended Buhari for looking into the concerns of Niger Delta people by terminating the NDDC board. It said there was no way the board would have stood the test of time given the several disputes over the legality of its composition. IYC, in a statement by its president, Barrister Roland Pereotubo Oweilaemi, said “The board was illegally constituted because the enabling Act was not complied with. IYC and those agitating for the right thing to be done, are vindicated. President Buhari should follow the law ‘stricto sensu’ when reconstituting the management board. He should not allow politicians to mislead him into doing their fraudulent biddings. “The Interim Management Board, no doubt, is the rightful body constituted as it stands now. President Buhari has just done what is fair and just to the Niger Delta people, especially those agitating that the NDDC Act Establishment should be complied with.” While congratulating the IMC members, IYC asked them to pay contractors who had completely executed their projects. It commended the IMC’s Acting Managing Director for supervising projects to ascertain their completion before making payments to the contractors, maintaining that “that is the step some previous board failed to carry out.” The IYC called on the forensic auditors to probe the NDDC management since 2001 and that whoever was found culpable should be exposed, adding, “IYC on its part has pledged to work with the forensic auditors, the IMC and the presidency to ensure that the rampant corruption in the commission is tamed.” Also, Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (CHURAC) described the suspension of the NDDC board as timely and in public interest, describing the board as illegal. Barrister Alaowei E. Cleric, CHURAC’s National President, said, “CHURAC and other well-meaning Nigerians actually challenged the legality of the President to appoint Chairman of the Board from Edo State without following the rotational circle as provided by the NDDC Establishment Act, 2000. “While we are not trying to preempt the courts of their findings, we are happy that Mr. President has looked into the concerns of the Niger Delta people, especially as they relate to following due processes of the laws. We make bold to say that the now-disbanded board was illegally constituted by the President. The decision therefore to lay it off is in a right step in the right direction. “CHURAC is in support of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) since that is within the purview of Mr. President in the absence of a substantive board. The tripartite decisions of the presidency to disband the illegally constituted management board, set up IMC and empanel forensic auditors to audit the commission from 2001 to date are very commendable. “CHURAC is in agreement with public opinions that the NDDC is swimming in a humongous corruption. Any step taken to weed the commission of the unchecked corruption is a right step that should be applauded by every right thinking individual. The trillions of naira the commission has allegedly spent on projects in the region since its establishment in 2001 did not correspond with what is on ground. “The commission was not just poorly managed by successive management teams, politicians have turned it into a looting spree to pilfer away our common patrimony. The forensic auditors should be very meticulous. No stone should be left unturned. CHURAC will give all necessary supports to the government and the forensic auditors to ensure that we have a sanitised commission. “The corruption in NDDC is now a syndicate. While the Niger Delta region is littered with abandoned projects with some already paid in full contract sum without execution, some of these contractors are being protected by powerful politicians who are connected to the commission. So many contracts are also being executed by unregistered companies yet nothing happens to them because corruption is ruling the agency. “The IMC should not just pay contractors coming for payments because they’re close to the powers that be. They should supervise every project to ascertain its due completion before making payments. That is one area that was breeding corruption in the commission. Contracts are being awarded to cronies and their lackeys with full contract sum paid without actual execution. “CHURAC will do everything within its power to ensure that the forensic audit is made public for Nigerians to see what is happening in the commission. President Buhari will have his name scrolled in the golden plate of history if he exposed the dare devil corruption controlling the NDDC through this forensic.” However, the Ijaw People’s Development Initiative (IPDI) maintained that apart from the dissolved board, the IMC should also be dissolved, insisting that its emergence was faulty. Comrade Austin Ozobo, IPDI National President, maintained that both the board and the IMC were wrongly constituted without a due process. Ozobo said: “We agitated for the dissolution of the two boards and not only the substantive board. The dissolution of the substantive board is a corrective measure taken to save the commission’s Establishment Act. “However, the dissolution of the NDDC illegal substantive board was what our group was agitating for. It was a wise decision and right step. The board was illegally constituted in violation of the NDDC Establishment Act. It is not the turn of Edo State to produce the chairman of the commission. “Following by the alphabetic order of the illegal frame work, it is the turn of Delta to produce the chairman of the commission and the MD. The MD is by production quantum, while the chairman is by alphabetical arrangement, which alphabet A, B, C , which is Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa, and Cross Rivers states have produced and now, it is the turn of alphabet D, which Delta State to produce the chairman. The Act was totally violated and that was the ground for our agitations. “We are glad that President Buhari has seen the need to dissolve it to avoid further conflict in the region. On the other hand, Buhari’s action shows that he lacks political ideology and that his decisions are influenced by emotions. He is seriously confused. A government of foresight will not do these shameful mistakes. “You sent nominees to Senate for confirmation and they were confirmed as requested and at the point of inauguration you appointed another controversial interim board and now after screening and confirmation of the purported substantive board, you dissolve it. This is a sign of confusion, incompetence, poor governance and it means Buhari could not forecast and that decisions were taken arbitrarily for the gain of a few. “In the same vein, the interim board was faulty, it was constituted by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs , Godswill Akpabio, and you know there is no provision in NDDC Establishment Act that empowered a minister to appoint or constituted the board of the commission. “So, the interim board is illegal, so it should be dissolved. As you know, the Act does not make provision for any interim board, and that keeping the interim board, which is not even recognised by the senate, is another illegality perpetrated by Buhari government. “What we are seeing there is an attempt to legalise the interim board by the presidency. We will resist it. The senate should hold on to their earlier position and do not allow the interim board to sign or defend any budget of the commission. “Interim board is not auditors and we should not mix it up. We don’t want the interim board and they should be evicted as well. A new board should be immediately constituted to avoid further crisis in the commission.”