As a holding company, these investments within each entity will be as going concerns, with no terminal pressure to exit. This kind of liberation will allow each unit under the umbrella to operate freely within their own cost, technological, and cultural constraints. For the owners of the holding company, they will retain the exposure to a “banking conglomerate” but in a far different manifestation and coexistence of fintech and banks to what we see in current times”. Peters see banks also becoming more innovative with their capital and start upshot fintech ventures, labs completely separate from the main operation. This could be in the form of spun off independent groups, capitalized with equity and with no internal transfer pricing or involvement from the parent, staffed either with capable internal staff or external hires who receive “founding stock”. Some experts also believe that the rising incursion of Financial Technology (Fintech) companies into areas hitherto dominated by traditional banks will be complementary if the banks become more innovative. This was part of the submission of experts, who spoke at the Disrupt 2019 Africa Fintech Foundry (AFF) conference organised by Access Bank in Lagos. With the theme ‘Digital Gold Rush: Building a Sustainable Tech-Economy’, local and international experts at the event stressed the need for more collaboration between fintechs and the banking community for the betterment of the economy. Besides, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said it is almost concluding plans to regulate the fintech community in Nigeria. Speaking on ‘Enabling Investments: Making the Regulations Clearer’, CBN Director, Payments and Settlements, Sam Okojere, said a document was being developed in line with on-going efforts to evolve a robust collateral management regime, which will be proportionate to transactional level of participants within the payment system. Disclosing that the CBN has become more proactive, Okojere noted that the apex bank was working with stakeholders for a proper regulation for the fintech community. According him, the CBN is in partnership with 17 working groups to evolve a regulation for the emerging sub-sector. Dr. Herbert Wigwe, Chief Executive Officer, Access Bank, who chronicled the banking journey in the last 40 years from tally to teller, said from a business perspective and with the benefit of hindsight, traditional banking environment did not provide opportunities for scalability. Wigwe said: “Most years, it was business as usual. Banking processes were manual and in-branch, creating the need for brick-and-mortar branches with their expensive overheads, and in the case of Nigeria, low level of financial inclusion. “But technology has changed everything. Not only is this continuing, the rate of development and evolution is speeding up exponentially.” Charging entrepreneurs and start-ups to be forward-thinking, inward-looking and proactive, chairman of Zinox Group, Leo Stan Ekeh, said start-ups must first of all audit themselves. Ekeh, who said the government is still analog-driven, urged start-ups, especially those in the technology sector, to be focused and shun immediate pleasure. Dr. Lucy Surhyel Newman, FITC Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, said the financial services sector had experienced disruption because of the innovation related to technology. “It is time to collaborate, partner and leverage on the experiences of various industries within the Nigerian Financial System, for global competitiveness. “You can see from the panelist’s discussion, first of all, how they responded to the survey, and what their respective institutions are doing, and what they think regulators should do to help the system. “We have financial institutions that are going out of Nigeria and into other countries, and in a short time, setting the service standards in those countries. “So, how do we retain our leadership roles, and at the same time, protecting institutions against the downside of FinTech, as well as educating the public to embrace it, so that we can reach more people in the financial inclusion space. “For us at FITC, from the fact that Fintech has entered the financial services sector, we think it is better to embrace it. We are happy to bring such conversations, and hopefully, apt policies can emanate from today’s discussion”.