Comrade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi, Chairman, Lagos State chapter of the African Action Congress (AAC) and former Director of Mobilisation of the National Conscience Party (NCP) is a political activist to the core. Ajayi, a labour activist and General Secretary, United Action for Democracy (UAD), spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the travails of his party’s National Chairman, Omoyele Sowore, the plans towards the 2023 general elections, among other issues. Excerpts: Would you say that Nigerian activists have been living up to expectations? The history of Nigerian activism has shown that even before the nation’s political independence, Nigerian activists have lived up to their billings. Most of those who came into government at independence worked with labour. Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe and Chief Obafemi Awolowo worked with activists like the late Aminu Kano and Michael Imoudu and the others. It could be said that the activists laid the foundation for and built Nigerian politics, including political leadership of women. Activists became stronger after independence. Activists championed anti-military and anti-war movements. Activists also helped to fight the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) by 1980. Ironically, 30 years after SAP, Nigeria is suffering the effect of SAP. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network It would have been great if activists are in power. But, the structures that emerged after the civil war were fizzled away, like the National Union of the Nigerian Students (NUNS), now National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS). There are efforts to kill the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). There is undue romance of activists with the current government.  Such activists are found in Bola Tinubu, Adams Oshiomhole and Rauf Aregbesola camps. However, activism has risen up again after the All Progressives Congress (APC) took over power. The old vanguard cannot continue as they are now with different groups. What is the state of the AAC since the arrest of Comrade Omoyele Sowore, your party’s National Chairman? Since the detention of Sowore, the party is stronger. More members are joining the party. The party is growing stronger and more massively. Would you say the 2019 electoral loss affected the AAC adversely? It did not. The party fulfilled what was needed. We had great outing and scored great votes all over the nation. There is a move to stop revolutionary parties, including AAC. They are fighting NCP too. They have taken Labour Party (LP). How would you react to Sowore’s release? The fascist regime bowed to people’s struggle.  We stated it clearly that freedom comes by struggle. It is the relentless, consistent and ideological struggles of the comrades in the #RevolutionNow movement and other priceless groups that secured the hard earned victory.  May I use this opportunity to congratulate the legal team for a great job done, as well as international agencies that acceded to our lobbies and petitions. Great respect to members of the press that defied all odds to stand by the truth.  However, I would like to urge Nigerians to continue to fight for the future now. We have to build for eternal freedom by uniting and fighting. The regime has only retreated. It will still show more of its true colours and will do everything to deepen divisions through religion, ethnicity, and state lies.  We must remain faithful to our demands. We must use this moment to stand by the masses and organise with them the more. This must be our attitude to the working class, youth, and students’ movements. I congratulate our members for being faithful so far. We demand the immediate release of Agba Jalingo, Dadiyata, and other political prisoners. We send our solidarity greetings to Deji Adeyanju and other comrades who were attacked and lost valuables during the #OccupyNHRC on Monday December 23 in Abuja. This victory is a contact point to a permanent victory of the Nigerian oppressed people over their oppressors. Nothing really can stop an idea whose time has come. What is your take on the reports that Sowore was released due to international pressure mounted on the Federal Government? It is yet another of the many ways to depopularise the struggle so far. But, the history is recent and clear. It is the five-month relentless struggles of the Nigerian working people, led by the #RevolutionNow movement, that freed Sowore. We, however, appreciate the efforts of our friends in the Democratic Party in the United States, through the Department of Democracy. They showed the essence of global solidarity. Consequently, the international support for our struggle showed the extent to which our strategies and methods were correct. We won the prevailing idea. We fought in clear terms and brought a fast rising global and localised fascist regime to its knees. This happened through the masses only. Through the efforts of comrades who remain adamant, even when arrested and released, relentless despite being at large, and also tormented with security and thuggery attacks. The only reason some mischief makers are attempting to derail the achievement of the struggle so far is to dissuade people from fighting for their rights, as well as depopularise the emerging real opposition to the Buhari/APC régime which has continued to be lawless and adamant in respecting public opinion. The victory is entirely to Nigerians who from markets, to rooms, to public spaces, buses, workplaces, and the social media stood for a democratic society other than tyranny.  Nothing really can stop an idea whose time has come. Before Sowore’s arrest, there was a leadership crisis in your party and a court ruling, leading to the emergence of a factional national chairman. What is the current situation of the case? We are at the Appeal Court. Everything is back to status quo ante bellum until the court decides otherwise. But, Leonard Ezenwa and co have started an illegal secretariat in Abuja, when we have the official and authentic secretariat also in Abuja. However, the AAC’s National Executive is intact. Ezenwa sued Sowore and not the party. Sowore is still our National Chairman till our convention. We are planning to hold our convention next year. Although two of our eggheads, Sowore and Agba Jaligo, still have cases in court, whatever way their cases go, our convention is next year. We thank God Sowore has now been released. We are sure the Appeal Court will still handle the party’s case next year. We believe we will win. How strong would you say that AAC is in Lagos and other parts of the country? Lagos is the strongest branch of our party in Nigeria. We have forced the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to regroup in Lagos. We have good relationship with the NCP. AAC and NCP are the two opposition parties in Lagos. PDP is not an opposition party. People only hear of PDP in Lagos during elections. We are preparing for the Lagos State local government election. Happily, this coming election will not be conducted by LAISEC (Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission). The Lagos cabal has not done anything in Lagos. APC is only an ‘Owambe’ party. All over the nation, education and health sectors are not working. In Lagos, the private sector has been killed. APC government has not done anything to improve education. There is no economic performance, but only shouts about corruption. We will start electoral mobilisation in Lagos. Preparatory to the 2023 general elections. The local government election in Lagos in 2022 will be a test for AAC. With the #RevolutionNow protests emerged the Coalition for Revolution (CORE) and Take It Back Movement (TIB). How would you separate both groups from AAC? What are their relationships with the party? AAC is a party that relates with the Revolutionary Movements. AAC is a leftist party. We have relationship with all of them, including CORE and Take It Back Movement. CORE and Take It Back Movement are engine room of AAC. CORE is the clearing house of the relationship between Take It Back Movement and all the leftist movements. But, there are many in Take It Back Movement who are not members of AAC. I double as Chairman of both AAC in Lagos and Take It Back Movement. But, CORE has a different leadership from AAC. How do you see the Hate Speech Bill and the Social Media Bill being considered by the National Assembly? Both are legislative attempt to formalise fascism in Nigeria. Fascism wants to gag one’s mouth. The government of President Muhammadu Buhari wants to rule the country with iron hands. So, they want to use the legislature to formalise fascism. The two bills are not necessary. The courts are there to resolve these issues. All these issues are in our constitution and the laws of the land. We have laws of libel, slander, and even sedition.  What they are doing amount to duplications. They only want to add harder punishments and implications. But, they are not constitutional. Atiku Abubakar, former vice president and the 2019 candidate of the PDP, has sued Lauretta Onochie, President Buhari’s spokesperson. Buhari has the right to sue Sowore if he feels that he was attacked. It will be a civil matter. He can waive his immunity and sue Sowore. He can sue anybody not minding his immunity. The government is not explaining anything. So, if people make statements, they should defend it, not to use state power to hold or harass anybody. That is an insult on humanity and abuse of state power. The President Muhammadu Buhari administration has been under fire over human rights abuses. What is your take on this? It is the trait of Buhari to abuse human rights. It is an extension of his military trait as a General. It is also the people’s right to put the president on fire for abusing people’s rights. It was the people that fought for the democracy which Buhari is enjoying the fruits today. When Nigerians were fighting for democracy, Buhari stood behind General Sani Abacha, while people were suffering. Yet, no one denied him his right to contest for presidency as a civilian. It is unacceptable for Buhari to come now to abuse human rights. That is unacceptable. We will continue to take political actions against him for abusing people’s rights. Very soon, labour will join us. The informal sector will join us. What are the challenges the AAC is facing since Sowore’s travail? We have been having general challenges. The government has thugs everywhere, who have been attacking activists. The government’s supporters are going violent because they cannot explain what is happening. So, they are going violent. We are also financially incapacitated. The government has closed most of our accounts we use to operate, including the ones Nigerians legally use to support us. We have evidence that this is the handiwork of the DSS. They are putting all of us on media trial as they are doing to Sowore, trying to give the dog a bad name to hang it. We see the challenges as tasks and we see big prospects in them. There were ripples over the re-arrest of your National Chairman, Omoyele Sowore, in a Federal High Court, Abuja. Why do you think the government was bent on keeping him in detention? The government wants to stop every voice of dissent. Sowore is seen as the leader of the opposition in Nigeria. Sowore is close to the masses. During the 2019 presidential election, he got votes all over the country, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), without campaigning and spending like the APC and PDP. Sowore, by INEC’s calculation, came third during the election. They see him as one who helped to bring up the voice of the leftist movement again. So, they want to do everything to stop Sowore. Through his Sahara Reporters, he has helped to contest the prevailing ideas about news, budgets and a load of issues. He has contended with the Nigerian elite in dividing the media space, including the social media. So, the ruling class is not happy. Even Garba Shehu said in his recent statement that Sowore has a powerful media that is recognised all over the world. The government is afraid of several things. In 2012, the uprising against fuel subsidy was the undoing of PDP. Sowore was an active participant in that uprising. So, APC does not want the same thing to happen to it. APC government is a failed government based on illusions. Sowore has helped to clear these illusions. How would you foresee AAC’s performance in 2023 elections? I see 2023 elections as a clear political ideological battle. The left would have been united. It will be a battle between the oppressor and the oppressed. It will not be the battle of two oppressors as it was in 2019. Both Atiku and Buhari are the oppressors. As a Vice President for eight years, Atiku, being a member of the ruling class, he and Nasir el-Rufai privatised all the public enterprises. Atiku is an oppressor. He is a capitalist to the core. Capitalists make money through the blood of the masses. Go to Adamawa State, his state, the people are suffering. The border closure by the Buhari administration is in favour of private monopoly, like Dangote. It is not in the interest of the masses, it has led to rice monopoly. Even the price of Lake Rice has risen. You cannot even see it anywhere.