Barely eight days to the expiration of December 31 deadline for state governors to conclude discussions on consequential adjustment for the payment of the new N30, 000 minimum wage, the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has increased its pressure on the Federal Government to review the revenue sharing formula. They insist it will aid them in meeting up with the new wage demand. The NGF, however, said the payment of the new minimum wage of N30, 000 was a done deal, although they may not adopt the template of the Federal Government on the consequential adjustment. At an interactive session with State House correspondents after meeting behind closed doors with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday, chairman of the NGF, Kayode Fayemi, assured that no state will pay anything less than N30, 000 that has been signed into law. Recall that one of the conditions given by the governors before accepting the N30, 000 new wage was that the Federal Government will review the sharing formula of the revenue accruing to the federation. But asked on what was the situation on the revenue sharing formula review, Fayemi said that there was no going back on the position of governors that the revenue sharing formula should be reviewed. He said, “A review of the revenue sharing formula is still the position of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum. “We feel that it’s time for the revenue sharing formula to change and we have made a representation to the president and commander-in-chief. It is not just under the (President Muhammadu) Buhari’s administration, this has been an ongoing agitation that started way back since the time of President Olusegun Obasanjo, it continued on to President (Umaru) Yar’Adua and President Goodluck Jonathan. So, it’s not just something that has been brought out under President Buhari. “And you also know that there is a process to this. The process is that the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), which has the responsibility for this would do its own due diligence, consult widely with critical stakeholders and we have also made available our own representation to RMAFC. “Every state has a representative at RMAFC as you know and only last week, RMAFC held a retreat on this and other matters and I believe they will communicate the position. “Now that we have a full-fledged RMAFC in place with a chairman and other members appointed, it is our expectation that this would be taken up by RMAFC with Mr. President in a manner that we have taken it up. “Whether that would affect negotiation for the minimum wage, I can tell you no. Minimum wage is a law. But as I have always said to you, a national minimum wage Act is not a general minimum wage review. “They are two separate things. Governors are committed to the minimum wage Act and no one is going to pay anything less than N30, 000. Some of us have started paying N30, 000 as you may be aware, others want negotiations on the consequential adjustment to end before they start paying the minimum wage. “And as you may be aware, what has happened so far is that the Federal Government has agreed a percentage of consequential adjustment with labour. What is happening currently in states and majority of our states have started that negotiation is to agree what that consequential adjustment would be in the state. “I have also said to many people who have asked me, fingers are not equal at the level of the states. So, consequential adjustment may not necessarily end up being the same, it will be different from state to state. “We are not going to adopt hook, line and sinker what has been adopted between Federal Government and labour; that is for Federal Government workers, what happens in state is a different matter. But I can assure Nigerians that no state is going to pay anything less than N30, 000.” On the role played by the NGF in resolving the dispute between Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and the emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, Fayemi who is the Ekiti State governor and a member of the committee set up to resolve the dispute said that critical stakeholders including former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon were working hard to resolve the matter. He said, “The committee has just started its work. You may recall that I have been involved in resolving the problem we have in Kano for some time. I have had cause as chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum of working with some key stakeholders in Kano to bring both parties together. “And what we are doing now is essentially an expanded committee of the elders chaired by the former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar and comprising very distinguished Nigerians and from our forum, myself and Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katrina State are also members of the committee. “We already had preliminary discussions with both parties and we know that they are both desirous of peace in Kano. We have also briefed Mr. President on the mission of this body. It is not a Federal Government body I must say that but the Federal Government that is Mr. President is not averse to anything that could assist in ensuring that there is peace in one or the most political state in our country. “Anything to avoid a volatile situation that may result in an unfortunate development is not wanted and it is our expectation that given the positive response from both His Excellency, the governor, Dr. Ganduje and the emir of Kano, we would come to a resolution of the problem.” Asked whether it was possible to resolve the matter, he said, “If it is not possible we won’t even be doing this. Everybody is concerned, Kano is the hotbed of politics in this country. Kano is our own flagship state in APC. But this is not just a party issue, the people that are involved in this primarily are not politicians. “The only reason why we are involved is of course because Governor Ganduje is our colleague in the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and we are desirous of pushing for peace. “Just as we are doing this, we are interested in what is happening between our brothers in Rivers and Bayelsa because anything of this nature affects the solidarity in the forum so we want to make sure that our forum is one in a non-partisan developmental manner and if there is anything that is amidst, it is my duty and responsibility as the chairman of the forum to bring about peace where possible.” Also asked on the efforts NGF was making to resolve the crisis in Edo State which involves one of them, Governor Godwin Obaseki and the national chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, he said steps were being taken to ensure that peace reigned. According to him, “Crisis management in the governors’ forum is not a television matter. I can assure you that we are fully seized of what is happening in Edo State and at the level of the party, we have engaged both parties. “We hosted both parties, we appealed to them and their supporters, we have taken steps and we are still taking steps to ensure that peace reigns in Edo State but that is not the matter for the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, it’s more of a party political issue but we are involved in that at the level of the party”.