LAGOS – The efficiency of Nigerian seaports is being hampered by poor port access roads, manual cargo examination by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and the preponderance of overtime goods at the nation’s seaports, Princess Vicky Haastrup, Chairman, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN), has said.
Speaking in Lagos at the 2019 Annual Stakeholders’ Appreciation Night organised by Nigerian Shippers’ Council, the STOAN Chairman said bad roads had become “the largest single obstacle working against the efficiency of our ports.”
According to her, port operators and port users were groaning under the weight of severe stress posed by severely dilapidated port access roads.
She noted that while terminal operations at all the ports had attained varying degrees of efficiency, the severely dilapidated roads leading into and out of the ports are fast eroding the gains of the port reforms we all worked hard to achieve.
She said port workers, government officials and other stakeholders, daily endured avoidable stress to resume work and return to their homes.
“Recently, I read the newspaper account of a Customs Controller who said that officers serving at his command frequently fall ill because of the Apapa gridlock and the attendant stress induced by commuting daily to and from work on motorbikes, which many have resorted to because the roads are no longer passable. There is only so much the body can endure,” she said.
Haastrup also identified manual clearing processes as another major issue hindering the efficiency of the ports.
She lamented that scanners at the port were not functional, while almost all the cargo landed at the nation’s ports are subjected to 100 per cent physical examination.
She declared that this slowed down the cargo delivery process and increased the cost of doing business.
“Automation and scanning will reduce human contacts at the port and cut down on the use of discretionary powers by government officials. This will in turn reduce the cost of doing business at the port and boost government revenue,” she added.
On the preponderance of overtime cargo at the port, the STOAN Chairman appealed to the Nigeria Customs Service to expedite action in auctioning the goods as provided in the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA).
Haastrup commended the Nigerian Shippers’ Council for its various initiatives including the Inland Container Depots and the Truck Transit Parks.