President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday departed Abuja for Aswan, Egypt, to attend the Aswan Forum designed to set “An Agenda for Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa. ” The president, accompanied by Governors Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State, Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, departed the presidential wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, for Egypt at about 2.pm. The forum, which would hold between December 11 and 12 was an initiative to address the interconnections between peace and development in Africa, while promoting Africa-led solutions through strengthening policies and practices. “The initiative is being launched by the Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi in his capacity as the Chairman of the African Union (AU) and as an advocate of Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development in Africa – a recurring theme of his tenure as the AU Chairman. “It is also grounded in the AU’s Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want, and the search for African solutions to African problems. “The gathering is expected to bring together heads of state and government, leaders from regional and international organisations, financial institutions, private sector and civil societies. “Others are scholars, visionaries and prominent experts for action-oriented discussions on the threats, challenges and opportunities. “It is also expected to end with a declaration on the theme of the forum and become an annual event,’’ an earlier statement on Monday by the president’s spokesman, Mr Femi Adesina, disclosed. Others members of the delegation included Minister of Defence, Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd); Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada; National Security Adviser, Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) and Director-General, National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Amb. Ahmed Abubakar. The forum, the first of its kind in Africa, is aimed at addressing the interlinkages between peace and development, and champion Africa-led solutions, through strengthening the policies-practices linkages. Buhari is expected back in Abuja on Friday.