The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has assured Nigerians that candidates will register for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and Direct Entry (DE) would not be put under undue pressure to get registered for the matriculation examination. The board stated this as it defended its partnership with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) aimed at achieving mandatory acquisition of the National Identification Number (NIN) for those desirous of taking the UTME. Coming on the heels of invitation by the House of Representatives Committee on Tertiary Education, JAMB and NIMC expressed commitment to the implementation of the Federal Government’s directive on the use of NIN. In addition, as the Board fine-tunes preparations for the 2020 UTME, the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) has advised parents and guardians to guide their wards when filling the enrolment forms to guard against improper ordering of names as well as ensure correct date of birth is captured. Engineer Aliyu Aziz, Director-General of NIMC, stated this in Abuja recently during a collaborative meeting between the commission and the JAMB, saying that several measures have been put in place to ensure that candidates do not go through unnecessary hardship registering for NIN in line with the enforcement of the mandatory use of the NIN as provided in the NIMC Act of 2007. According to him, “Where an applicant is below 156 years, such applicant(s) would be required to provide the NIN of his/her parents or guardian and they must confirm that information supplied to the enrolment officer on the applicant’s monitor in front of him/her at the point of registration is correct.” Jambbuletin reports that the NIMC DG enjoined school authorities and local education secretaries to educate parents and students on the importance of registering for the National Identification Number (NIN) by students and applicants registering for the 2020 UTME/DE which commences in January 2020 just as he called for the cooperation and participation of all stakeholders in the exercise. For ease of registration, the meeting agreed that all JAMB registration centres would be linked with NIMC centres nationwide and all candidates who appear for registration without NIN would be taken to such centres for registration. Besides, the Board promised to take responsibility for conveying such candidates from its centres to the nearest NIMC registration outlets and back. However, Prof Ishaq Oloyede has declared that there was no going back on the decision to use the NIN in the 2020 registration and subsequent transactions with the Board. Oloyede disclosed that 40% of Nigerians desiring to register for the 2020 test had obtained NIN just as the remaining ones would be given top priority to get them enrolled. He revealed that computer Professionals Registration Council of Nigeria (CPN), Galaxy Backbone, the Telcos and others will add value to the integrity of the examination and engender transparency. Meanwhile, across the states of the federation, students that are desirous to write the test still struggle to get registered for the NIN as centres often complain of power failure, fatigue and inadequate manpower to handle the deluge of candidates. In the city centres, candidates who could not get registered after repeated visits to NIMC offices resorted to travelling to commission’s offices in other parts of the state where the crowd was lesser. Sources in Ogun State told Daily Independent that prospective candidates and adults have had cause to travel outside the state capital to far-flung local council areas where they registered for NIN within six hours.