LAGOS – The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), says there has been significant reductions in Nigeria’s annual Imports Bill. The CBN Deputy Governor, Corporate Services, Mr Edward Adamu made this known at the ongoing 28th Seminar for Finance Correspondents and Business Editors in Owerri on Tuesday. The theme of the three-day seminar is “Galvanising Development Finance and Monetary Policy Growth”. Represented by the Director, Corporate Communications Department, Mr Isaac Okorafor Adamu said there had also been an increase in non-oil exports. “Our Development Finance interventions have helped to bolster agricultural production by removing obstacles faced by smallholder farmers.We have also improved access to markets for farmers by facilitating greater partnership with agro-processors and industrial firms in the sourcing of raw materials. So far, the programme has supported more than 1.5 million farmers across all the 36 States of the country in cultivating 16 different commodities on over 1.4 million hectares of farmland.It has also supported the creation of over 2.5 million jobs across the agricultural value chain ” he said. He said for instance, it was the bank’s game changing intervention in the rice value chain in Kebbi and other rice-producing states across the country that increased local production from 2.5 million tonnes in 2015 to 5.8 million tonnes in 2017. The deputy governor said that the bank was also supporting cotton intervention with the inauguration of input distribution to 150,000 cotton farmers, cultivating 150,000 hectares in 23 states of the federation. He said that currently, the cotton planted by these farmers had started yielding fruits, while some were ready for harvest and off-take. ‘’Though, we adopted unconventional or heterodox monetary policies, they were however, well thought through and have been yielding significant gains for the Nigerian economy. Noticeably, the recovery of the GDP in the third quarter of 2017 has been sustained for nine successive quarters, after five consecutive quarters of negative growth”, he said. On monetary policies, Adamu said, “The unconventional monetary policy initiatives have been premised on ensuring credit delivery to critical sectors of the economy. This has informed the directive to Deposit Money Banks to maintain a minimum Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) of 65% by the end of December 2019. The Bank is also creating the necessary eco-system to inculcate a better credit culture among Nigerians,” He, further stated that improved access to markets for farmers has facilitated better partnership with agro-processors and industrial firms in the sourcing of raw materials, as the programme has so far supported more than 1.5m farmers across all the 36 States of Nigeria, in cultivating 16 different commodities over 1.4 million hectares of farmland.