Abuja – The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday expressed shock and sadness over the death of Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu, 51, who, until his death, represented Okigwe (Imo North) Senatorial District of Imo State.
Reports indicated that Uwajumogu died on Wednesday morning in Abuja.
A statement by Lanre Issa-Onilu said the late senator was a pleasant personality who worked hard to entrench APC in the South East.
Part of the statement reads: “The All Progressives Congress (APC) has received news of the death of Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu with great shock and sadness.
“The late Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu was the APC senator representing Imo North Senatorial District.
“Many who crossed path with the late senator described him as pleasant and accommodating. He was an astute politician, fine lawmaker, social crusader, successful businessman, humanitarian, and a philanthropist.
“As former speaker of the Imo State House of Assembly, the late Senator Uwajumogu was known for his commitment to the promotion of legislations to enhance good governance, particularly in the area of education, infrastructure, and social amenities.
“He was one of the frontline party leaders that worked assiduously to entrench the APC in the South East. He always made himself available to serve the party whenever called upon.
“We extend our heartfelt condolences to his immediate family, constituents, National Assembly, particularly the Senate, and the government and people of Imo State.
“We pray the Almighty God grant the late Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu eternal rest and also give us all the strength to bear this painful loss.” Similarly, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, and other senators have expressed shock and sadness over the death of Uwajumogu.
Lawan, who commiserated with the family of the deceased senator and the government and people of Imo State over the tragic loss, also condoled with distinguished senators and friends of the departed lawmaker.
Lawan, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ola Awoniyi, recalled that Senator Uwajumogu was full of life at the Senate chamber on Tuesday, which made the news of his death even more difficult to take.
“But God gives and takes in line with his supreme sovereignty so we cannot question His will.
“Senator Uwajumogu’s sudden death is shocking and a painful loss to the ninth National Assembly where he always made robust contributions to the debates and other activities of the upper legislative chamber. He will be greatly missed by all of us his colleagues and staff of the Senate,” Lawan said.
Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, on his part, described the death of Uwajumogu as a huge loss to Nigeria, his constituents and in particular Imo State.
Also, Senator Elisha Abbo (PDP-Adamawa North) was saddened that Uwajumogu, who was the chairman, Senate Committee on Labour, Employment and Productivity, has gone to be with the Lord so soon.
“I can confirm that my colleague and brother Ben Uwajumogu has left us to be with the Lord. It calls for sober reflection.
“It is a clear indication that this world is like a market and when you come you will go back home. Ben has come to the market he has behaved well and gone back to account for his good deeds on earth.” “Our thoughts and prayers are with his family,” he added. Senator Smart Adeyemi (APC-Kogi) said Uwajumogu was somebody he was looking forward to work with given his open mindedness. “He is quite a humble person and very intelligent person; he is somebody I talked with since I came. “It is very painful, we talk about how we could cement the country, most of the things he was saying was how the unity of the country could be further strengthened, the oneness of Nigeria. “There was no sign of ailment on him, he was on the floor of the Senate on Tuesday but he did not show sign of somebody who is sick. “We did not believe it when we first heard of his death, because he was very active on Tuesday.” Also reacting, Sen. Peter Nwaoboshi (PDP-Delta) described the death of Uwajumogu as very painful.