ABUJA – Edo State government has been called upon to immediately carry out the land revocation order in Owan and Okomu Forest Enclave. This call was made by Environmental Rights Action/ Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN) in Abuja, during a press conference at the weekend. The group also charged the state government to carry out the revocation without being complacent or taking side with Okomu Company and also ensure that the company takes responsibility and pays compensation to the impacted communities whose farmlands were appropriated or destroyed. It urged the Federal Government to immediately set up a panel of inquiry to investigate the killing of an elephant calf and bring the culprits to book to serve as deterrent to others. ERA/FoEN, which raised the alarm over threats to the Okomu National Park, added that its mission is to end land grabbing and desertification. The Executive Director of the group, Dr. Godwin Uyi, noted that the activities of a multi-national company (Okomu Oil Plc) located within the area was putting pressure on the buffer zone of the national park. He pointed out that this development is putting undue pressure on natural habitat of rare endemic animal species such as: the white throated monkeys, dwarf crocodiles, buffalos, duikers, as well as other plant species. Uyi, who was represented by a member of the coalition, Tony Erha at the conference said: “We wish to condemn the continued high rate of deforestation in areas contiguous to the Okomu National Park because the buffer zone is under severe pressure from oil palm plantation expansion.” He explained that findings by its members and other stakeholders confirm the position of public-oriented coalitions involved in campaigning on issues of land grabbing in the area. Uyi explained that the lack of enforcement of a revocation order in respect of 13,750 hectares of land situated within the buffer, which was contained in an Edo State Government Gazette No.16 Vol.19 (page 48- 50), published on November 5, 2015, as reinforced by the Forestry Law 2002 (as amended), was largely responsible for the situation.