ASABA – Stakeholders at the 2019 Press Week of the Delta State Council of Nigerian Union of Journalist (NUJ) have bemoaned the recent attempt of the Federal Government of Nigeria to strangulate press freedom in the country.
‘Enhancing Safety of Journalist in a Security- Challenged Polity,’ as the theme of the event comes at the backdrop of challenges facing pressmen in the country.
Former Minister of Education, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, who was represented by Dr Emmanuel Akpoveta urged journalists to keep to the ethics of the practice, saying that, everyone holding a cellphone now refers to himself as a journalist.
Immediate past Provost of Federal College of Education, Technical, Asaba, Dr Ignatius Ezoem while speaking yesterday in Asaba , lamented that journalists in Nigeria are an endangered species due to the harsh circumstances created by the government.
“When a journalist reports a story, he is in trouble for reporting the truth and if he does not report the truth he is in trouble with his conscience,” he asserted.
Meanwhile, Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, who was ably represented by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mr Paul Osahon reiterated the commitment of the State Government to give the NUJ a befitting secretariat in the early quarter of 2020.
He then appreciated them for the important role they play in image making of the state.
During his address, President of the NUJ, Chief Chris Isiguzo, who was represented by National Trustee of the South/ South Region, Comrade John Angase urged journalist in Nigeria not to be suppressed despite difficulties mitigating against the profession.
He stressed that, where there is no press, there is no truth and without truth, there is no justice.
Giving his lecture, on a topic themed ‘Regulation of Digital Journalism- Implications and Otherwise on National Development,’ Keynote Speaker, Dr Emmanuel Biri attributed the ailing economy of Nigeria to the continuous threat to freedom of information in the country.
He declared that the proposal of regulation by the federal government is a sign of retrogression.
According to Biri, “Are we going back or front, it is only a government that has things to hide that would propse such. It would be a disaster.
While charging journalists to remain firm in the discharge of their duties, he noted that regulating digital media would only increase corruption, incompetence amongst leaders as well as public apathy towards government.