OWERRI – Mayo Obatunwase Akinleye, a paediatric nursing officer at the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching, Hospital Slinka, Zaria, Kaduna State, has advised married couples to engage in regular sex at least twice per week to build psychological, spiritual and physical hormones that helps to fight cancer especially that of the prostate in male. Akinleye stated this while delivering a lecture at the zonal headquarters of Redemption House of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Umuokoto Nekede, Owerri West Council Area, during a programme by the church. She described sex as a sensitive act to direct and streamline marriage; she also presented it as getting together as one flesh and blood. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The nursing officer maintained that the female and male genital organs were made by God for the purpose of ejaculations to produce children for man to fulfill God’s desires on earth and should not be discredited. According to her, it is man’s responsibility to sex his wife all the time while the woman accepts to give herself to the man when both desire it; and none should look outside the home for sex. This gathering of brethren marked the church’s end of the year party of the zonal parish. She said it is cheating of each other that leads to broken homes in the world and it does not allow peace to remain in the marriage. She cautioned men and women to always know how to love themselves especially men to their wives as sex partners to ensure that they fulfill the scriptural and biblical directives of not putting asunder marriages as a result of irregular sex. She said the man should be given enough good food after and before sex and it should be done at any time. Pastor Obatunwase Akinleye, husband of the guest lecturer Mrs Mayo Akinleye, in-charge of the zonal parish described couples as blessings to the world proposed by God to multiply and fill the earth. Pastor Akinleye warned men and women to stay away from denying each other the necessity to love, especially Christian brethren to fulfill God purpose to mankind.