LAGOS – To immortalise Lagos State first military administrator, Brig.- Gen. Mobolaji Johnson, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday named the Onikan Stadium after the late general. It is now called Mobolaji Johnson Arena. In his tribute to the late military administrator, Sanwo-Olu described Johnson as a father, elder statesman and a charismatic leader. “He was as gentle as a dove; he never threw his weight around. As a soldier, he never ruled with an iron hand. He was a gentleman in the real sense,” Sanwo-Olu said. The governor said that Johnson was a goal-oriented leader, a great man of many parts, an iconic figure and quintessential manager of resources. Describing Johnson as a man of integrity, decency, humility, fairness and justice, Sanwo-Olu noted that the late military administrator was a source of inspiration to the state governors as he was always available to offer his wise counsel to them. Also, former Lagos state governor and the All Progressives Congress (APC) leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in his tribute, described Johnson as a servant-leader, and a man of integrity, who made history as governor of Lagos State. “Mobolaji Johnson was an epitome of discipline, who left good legacy in the public service. He was simple and never used the corridors of power to amass state wealth,” Tinubu said. Noting that Johnson showcased courage, determination and consistency for the betterment of Lagos State, Tinubu added that Johnson lived a life of principles and commitment, as well as believed that a good name is better than amassing unmerited wealth. Quoting from Johnson’s autobiography, Tinubu urged the citizens to cultivate the qualities of uprightness and integrity, and called on everyone to come out in a big way to showcase these qualities, as “We need these qualities if our state is to develop spiritually, economically and socially.” “If we emulate him, we won’t serve Lagos going backwards. I wish his soul eternal rest”, the APC national leader said. Brig.-Gen. Raji Rasaki, a former governor of the state, described the late Johnson as a soldier of all soldiers. “As an officer, he was nice to all. He taught all those close to him what a soldier should be. We learnt a lot from him.” Stating that Johnson’s simplicity to the junior officers was something for all soldiers to emulate, Rasaki added: “As a soldier, Johnson was a complete gentleman with untainted character.” At the event of tributes, Ogun State former governor, Olusegun Osoba, while eulogising Johnson, noted that the late Lagos State military administrator was a disciplinarian.