ABUJA – The Federal Government through the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has trained 200 women entrepreneurs drawn from across the country on shea-butter value chain.
Amb. Mariam YalwajiKatagum, Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, disclosed this while declaring open the Bauchi State first National Trade and Exhibition Fair held at the Ibrahim Babadamasi Babangida Square, Bauchi State.
She explained that the targeted beneficiaries were trained on best practices in shea-nut picking and shea-butter processing, adding that at the end of the training, the women organisations were given complete set of shea-butter processing equipment to continue with the project.
Speaking about the Trader Fair, the minister said the theme of the Trade Fair was in line with the present administration’s policy that is aimed at putting the Nigerian economy on a path of sustained, inclusive and diversified growth as well as job creation, while reaffirming the commitment of President Buhari-led administration to provide both financial and technical assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to ensure their products meet international standards.
She called on stakeholders in the sector to support government’s efforts at strengthening the capacity of SMEs for job creation and ensure rural development.
The minister, who commended the Bauchi State Government for its support and creation of an enabling environment, also lauded the State for playing host to the first edition of the Fair.
The Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed in his address said that his government has approved the constitution of a committee for the privatisation of all the moribund industries in Bauchi State, adding that, the constitution of the committee was in recognition of the importance of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises in the state in line with his economic policies.
The Governor represented by his Deputy, Senator Baba Tela, expressed optimism that the recommendations of the committee would go a long way in the revitalisation of these industries.
Bala Mohammed said the 1st National Trade and Exhibition fair would open window of cooperation between government, private sector and small scale entrepreneurs to interface, exchange ideas and promote synergy for national growth and development.
In his welcome address, the President, Bauchi State Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (BACCIMA), Habu Jajere explained that the Trade Fair was organised as part of efforts to revive regional trade fair in the zone, in addition to providing conducive environment for the Federal Government to educate stakeholders on the new National Economic Agenda and Strategies for diversification with particular emphasis on Small and Medium Enterprises. Jajere expressed confidence that the opportunity provided by the Trade Fair would transcend beyond the boundaries of buying, selling and exhibition to the pedestal of attracting the much needed foreign and domestic investments to the state, region and the nation in general.
The theme of the Trade Fair was, “The New National Economic Recovery and Growth Plan and Eventual Diversification of Nigeria’s Economy; the Role of Small and Medium Enterprises.