Fast rising Nollywood actor and filmmaker, Cheng Fuller, who recently released his debut film production from Pandemonium Pictures on domestic violence titled “Endless (Chapter 1)” recently partnered with DeCaptain’s Lounge to hold a private screening on Sunday, 15 December 2019 at their exclusive lounge located at 12 Joel Ogunannaike street in Ikeja GRA. Speaking at the event, the promoters of the lounge informed guests that De Captains was happy to support this noble gesture and this support was one in a series of many they were going to roll out to support Nollywood and the creative industry in general. The Movie screening went well and audience reviews of the movie were largely positive although opinions about the subject matter were heavily polarized between the men and the women. At the end of the screening, Cheng Fuller informed the house that he and the promoters of De Captains have arrived at a partnership understanding. Any Film maker wanting to shoot a lounge, restaurant or pub scene could use the facilities at De Captains for the shoot only and only after they have contacted Cheng Fuller’s Pandemonium Pictures, are properly vetted and Okayed to use the location – no strings attached. Announcing the partnership, Cheng Fuller happily informed the house, “We grow by helping others, and in that spirit, De Captains Lounge has decided to help Nollywood in its entirety”. We understand the purpose of getting the nod straight from Pandemonium was to ensure proper vetting and gatekeeping to ensure only serious and reputable film makers were assisted. The Main Promoter of De Captains added, “Typically family members know and can vouch-safe for each other and as such it’s a perfect risk mitigation strategy to ensure that a practitioner in the industry – a family member, (who knows his family members) be the one to vet and approve such requests. De Captains Lounge is an exclusive fine Dining and gourmet restaurant/ lounge situated in the highbrow area of Ikeja and the management have set out to support Nollywood and throw their doors open to the industry. The promoters also informed us that going forwards, private movie screenings, Music Listening and release events and album launch parties can be conducted there so long as such requests are put in via Pandemonium Pictures for proper vetting. As guests dispersed, the promoters of the business informed everyone that going forwards, on a weekly basis, they would have special features and hosting for select celebrities, and also invited members for a celebrity karaoke battle this Christmas. Cheng Fuller’s stock has continued to rise in Nollywood as he has become a mainstay in major nollywood productions and having recently floated his own production company,  he is uniquely primed to make positive impact in the Nigerian film industry.