Paul Pogba should be in contention to feature when Manchester United take on Arsenal on New Year’s Day, according to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. When asked in his pre-match press conference, conducted at Turf Moor after Saturday’s 2-0 win over Burnley, whether he thought our no.6 would travel down to London, the boss was positive in his reply. “Yeah, I would think so,” Ole told reporters. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Pogba did not travel to East Lancashire with the rest of the squad at the weekend, after making substitute appearances against Watford and Newcastle United. Those two cameos off the bench added up to around 70 minutes of action after almost three months out injured for the 26-year-old. Solskjaer has indicated the midfielder simply required additional rest. “When you’ve been out for such a while, it’s always going to take time to be 100 per cent,” Ole explained. “He just needed another day, probably, of recovery.” Even with the festive period coming to an end, United still face a busy schedule to kick off 2020, starting with the trip to the Gunners. We then take on Wolverhampton Wanderers at Molineux in the Emirates FA Cup third round on Saturday evening, before turning our attention to the first leg of the Carabao Cup semi-final against Manchester City at Old Trafford on 7 January. With Scott McTominay the only new injury concern over Christmas, the manager believes the squad has plenty of options, whether there are any incomings in January or not. “Well, if we can keep [our forwards] fit and if we can keep on improving, one addition, if you get two additions, of course that’s going to be competition for places, and that’s what you’ve got to deal with at this club. FOCUS ON ARSENAL AWAYGALLERYOle’s improving Reds aren’t messing about! Minds are concentrated on Wednesday’s trip to the Emirates Stadium.VIEW GALLERY “We haven’t had enough [competition] because we’ve had so many injuries, but now we’re getting more and more players fit. So now I’ve got to leave players out that I maybe should have played. “So [on Saturday] Luke [Shaw] and Aaron [Wan-Bissaka] were replaced by two fantastic performers with Ashley [Young] and Brandon [Williams], so it gives me more options.” McTominay, Young and Axel Tuanzebe joined Pogba in missing a training session held before the media at the Aon Training Complex on Monday morning, although long-term absentees Eric Bailly, Tim Fosu-Mensah and Diogo Dalot all took part.