LAGOS – Pressure from the international community, especially the United States government, was said to have forced the Federal Government to order the release of former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Mass protests, Omoyele Sowore, from detention last Tuesday, December 24, 2019. Also released was Sowore’s colleague, Olawale Adebayo Bakare, alias Mandate, who is said to be hospitalised as a result of alleged brutalisation by security operatives. But nothing was said about Agba Jalingo, whose arrest and detention was masterminded by the Cross River State government. Dasuki, National Security Adviser (NSA) under former President Goodluck Jonathan, had been in detention since December 29, 2015 over several billions of Naira security fund said to be in his custody, allegedly said to have been spent during the 2015 general elections. Sowore, on his part, was arrested on August 3 as he was mobilising for planned #RevolutionNow nationwide mass protests scheduled to begin on August 5 over the prevailing poor situation in the country under the current administration. Sowore, National Chairman of African Action Congress (AAC), it would be recalled, was one of the presidential candidates in the 2019 general elections. Indeed, he came third during the election, behind Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the eventual winner, President Muhammadu Buhari. Reports had it that Mary Leonard, the US Ambassador to Nigeria, and her deputy brokered the deal for the release of Sowore and Dasuki, following a meeting with Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and Abubakar Malami, the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice (AGF). Sowore, Bakare and Dasuki as well as the other detainees, it would also be recalled, had recently been classified as Prisoners of Conscience by Amnesty International, the world’ human rights policeman. However, there had been a lot of local and foreign pressure on the government for the release of Sowore since his arrest and recent re-arrest by the operatives of the Department of State Service (DSS) in the Federal High Court in Abuja in a Gestapo style that led to a national uproar and further diminished what remained from the severely battered image of the Buhari administration. As a source, “The truth is that Dasuki and Sowore’s release was brokered by the Americans. The US Ambassador to Nigeria and her deputy met with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Malami and prevailed on them to plead with President Muhammadu Buhari to obey court orders and release them.” However, the United States Congress had also written to Malami, expressing concern over the continued detention of Sowore by the DSS. The US lawmakers stated that Nigeria risked tarnishing its international reputation over Sowore’s indefinite detention. According to the letter written by US lawmakers, Robert Menendez, Charles Schumer, Christopher Coons, Cory Booker, Bill Pascrell and Josh Gottheimer to Malami, “It will best serve Nigeria’s interests to protect and uphold the very legal systems that provide for stability and open dialogue. We request that you take immediate steps to… work to facilitate a speedy and fair resolution to the current circumstances of his re-detention; and ensure that he receives a legally sound and credible trial, consistent with Nigeria’s established judicial proceedings and the rulings that follow.” They maintained that the government’s actions were contrary to the values of a democratic country which include “application of prosecutorial powers and actions, as well as the ultimate compliance with judicial rulings.” They stated that Nigeria must work to uphold the basic human rights of its citizens, including their freedom of expression and political affiliation. “Nigeria has an opportunity and responsibility to serve as a model for following the established rule of law under its own constitution,” hence they stressed that Malami’s adherence to facilitating genuine progress toward respect for the rule of law would continue to pave the way for closer ties between the United States and Nigeria for economic growth, development and security cooperation. However, last Tuesday, Malami ordered the Department of State Services (DSS) to release Dasuki and Sowore. In so doing, he said government took the decision after reviewing the pending charges preferred against them by the Federal Government. “Whilst the Federal High Court has exercised its discretion in granting bail to the defendants in respect of the charges against them, I am also not unmindful of the right of the complainant/prosecution to appeal or further challenge the grant of bail by the court having regards to extant legal provisions, particularly section 169 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015”, the AGF said. Malami, in a statement on Tuesday, said his office had chosen to comply with the court orders while considering the pursuit of its rights of appeal and/ or review of the order relating to the bail as granted or varied by the courts. The AGF stated: “In line with the provisions of Sections 150(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), and in compliance with the bail granted to Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd.) (as recently varied by the Court of Appeal) and the bail granted to Omoyele Sowore, I have directed the State Security Services to comply with the order granting bail to the defendants and effect their release.” According to him, “the two defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land.” He reiterated the utmost regard his office had for the entire judicial structure of Nigeria, adding, “This administration remains unrelenting in deepening the rule of law and the administration of justice in general.” Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday, Comrade Debo Adeniran, Executive Chairman of the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), maintained it was a good thing that the Federal Government listened to the voice of reason and released Sowore and Dasuki as well as (Bakare). According to him, “It does not matter how their release came about. The end justifies the means. International pressure had been there since Dasuki’s detention. The government has realized that they had no power to continue to detain Sowore. Sowore was not a national security threat. “This was not the same as Dasuki. Dasuki constituted himself a security threat. But, it is not the same as Sowore. Agba Jalingo was also not a security threat to the Federal Government. He was not a security threat to the Cross River State government. “Their continued detention constituted a national shame and the degeneration into perdition. The government has no case against Sowore. Transferring money from his account to his company’s account cannot be proven to amount to money laundering. The government could not have afforded to continue to detain him, especially considering the local and international pressure fr his release.” Comrade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi, Lagos State Chairman of African Action Congress (AAC), Sowore’s political party, while reacting to reports that US and United Kingdom facilitated Sowore’s release, told DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday that the perception was another way to depopularise the #RevolutionNow mass struggle. Ajayi stated: “It is yet another of the many ways to depopularise the struggle so far. But, the history is recent and clear. It is the five-month relentless struggles of the Nigerian working people led by the #RevolutionNow movement that freed Sowore. “We appreciate the efforts of our friends in the Democratic Party in the United States, through the Department of Democracy. They showed the essence of global solidarity. “Consequently, the international support for our struggle showed the extent to which our strategies and methods were correct. We won the prevailing idea. We fought in clear terms and brought a fast rising global and localised fascist regime to its knees”. Dasuki Sowore