Gunmen suspected to be loyal to a political party were arrested on Saturday during the Kogi West Senatorial election rerun at Maternity Polling Unit, Okekoko Ward, Kabba/ Bunu Local Government Area of Kogi State. The thugs were arrested after they had prevented voters in the area from performing their civic duties. It was gathered that the gunmen were brought in to disrupt the voting process at the unit believed to be the stronghold of Senator Dino Melaye, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to a reliable source, the leader of the thugs who was alleged to be working for a legislator from the area in the State House of Assembly was caught with AK-47 rifle and large quantities of bullets by the locals who later handed them over to security men manning the polling unit. When contacted, Hakeem Busari, the Commissioner of Police in Kogi State, feigned ignorance of the incident, but promised to contact relevant officers for details. Besides the hitch at the said unit, voting went on peacefully in Lokoja and other areas of Kogi West, including Odolu in Kabba, Aiyetoro-Gbedde and Demonstration Primary School, Asuta Ward, the voting unit of PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan. At Ward B Unit 001, Karaworo, near Pararanda in Lokoja, accreditation began as early as 8.am, after which voting commenced. While the turnout was impressive, however, there was voter apathy, as most polling units witnessed low voters turn-out three hours before the 2.pm when voting was supposed to end. Early report showed that in GRA Asuta Ward 01 Kabba, APC had 254 votes, while PDP had 95. But, in the same town, Town Hall Polling Unit 002, Asuta Ward, APC had 48, while PDP had 98 votes. Reports from the affected 53 polling units in the West Senatorial zone and 22 polling units for Ajaokuta Federal Constituency election, it might be a walkover for the APC candidate, Senator Smart Adeyemi, when the final result would have been collated. Meanwhile, a relatively large number of voters turned out as voting began on a peaceful in the Kogi West Supplementary poll in most part of the district. The voters and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) staff started arriving polling units early in some of the centres, while simultaneous accreditation and voting started at 8.15 am at Inuwa Lenge Open Space PU 04 in Lokoja. A team of policemen was also on ground to keep the peace, even as a voter, Malam Bala, 60, expressed satisfaction with the exercise, hoping it would not be ‘scattered’ again. “I am happy with the way it is going. No crisis. No fighting. They should just let us vote and they count it. We don’t need to fight. I am happy with the way we are calm,” he said. INEC had declared as inconclusive the November 16 Kogi West Senatorial re-run when the margin of lead between Sen. Smart Adeyemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Sen. Dino Melaiye of the Peoples Democratic Party of (PDP) was less than the number of outstanding votes. A total of 53 polling units across Kogi West were cancelled due to ballot snatching and violence that characterised the November 16 senatorial election in Kogi West.