P/HARCOURT – Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike over the weekend handed over to members of the state House of Assembly 32 Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs). Making this disclosure, Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Ikuinyi Ibani, said, “the governor handed to us the keys of official cars that belong to members of the State Assembly. This is how it should be and we are very grateful to him for providing such leadership and ensuring that members welfare are always given priority. “Members shall continue to give meaningful contribution in their service and their productivity will be higher. On behalf of the Rivers State House of Assembly, we have sent our Christmas wishes before now and it is our wish that God will grant him the enablement to continue to do what is right for the people.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network On his part, the Deputy Speaker, Ehie Edison said the governor has assigned the 32 members of the House with official brand new Sports Utility Vehicles. He said: “We are most grateful and astonished and this gift is to aid our work.  It will ensure that we can carry out our responsibilities as lawmakers. We assure him that we will continue to maintain this relationship and will not let the governor, Rivers government and people down.” In a related development, the state Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Felix Obuah has described Wike as the best governor in Nigeria, in terms of fiscal development and people oriented projects in the State. Obuah, who stated this on Friday while playing host to a cross section of youth leaders, in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area of Rivers State, said his assessment stemmed from careful evaluation of the governor’s sterling performance less than six months after his second term inauguration. The PDP chair averred that while the ovation that greeted Wike’s remarkable and excellent achievements during his first 4-year tenure was yet to die down, he is already working to repeat history with projects on ground. Itemising the array of projects that has stood Wike out amongst his colleagues, Obuah named the historic, simultaneous construction of three flyovers in the State as the master stroke. “Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike of Rivers State is the best Governor in terms of infrastructural development, security, regular payment of salaries and entitlements to civil servants in the State, amongst others. “As if that is not enough, ‘Mr. Quality Projects’ pushed his good governance policy with construction of three flyovers simultaneously,” he stated.