Chelsea boss Frank Lampard is pleased to have Toni Rudiger back in his squad after the German defender picked up an injury in September, but he will be without centre-back Fikayo Tomori and striker Olivier Giroud. Tomori and Giroud were both absent from Chelsea’s training session and Lampard confirmed the defender has been given a few days off because of a strain. “He’s got a tiny strain around his hip area,” Lampard said about Tomori. “It’s been bothering him for a little bit, so he’s taken out of it for a few days.” As a result of the injury to Tomori, Rudiger is expected to come straight back into the starting line-up tonight and will partner Kurt Zouma, with Emerson Palmieri and Cesar Azpilicueta on the left and right flanks respectively. “It’s good to have him back,” Lampard said. “He’s been training really well. He’s got a lot of his fitness work done, his injury has healed. “It will potentially be difficult for him [to return after a long time out], but our guard against that was to give him a lot of work. “We have managed to create some things behind the scenes here in training that look like matchplay, and some pure running as well. He has come through all that. “You can only speak as you look at him, and he looks fit and ready to go, and I know he’s hungry. “In terms of building him up, rightly so, he’s a good defender. “People maybe overlook the fact we started the season with five big players all injured for a period of time. “You do miss those individuals, so let’s see what he can add to us.” Lampard knows victory against the Ligue 1 side would guarantee the Blues a place in the last-16 of the Champions League. And the 41-year-old is expected to rely on N’Golo Kante and Jorginho to help protect his defence, while Mason Mount can provide the link to get his attacking trio into the game. Lampard is expected to start Tammy Abraham upfront with Willian and Christian Pulisic providing the width on the right and left flanks respectively. Chelsea come into this crucial European match off the back of a surprise 3-1 away loss to Everton. And while Lampard admitted that many might have expected the Blues to come through this group, he still sees it as an impressive feat if his young squad accomplish it. “It would be a good achievement,” said Lampard. “There are expectations we that would get through the group, I get that, but it was a tough group. “The slightly young feel to our team, the fact we lost the first game, the few difficulties we have had, I think we have dealt with them very well to get into this position. There is still work to be done so we have to go out to win the game. “There are opportunities now for the team, particularly the young boys, to make a mark. It’s good. “I like the pressure of this game being knockout. If we’re going to do anything good here, we’re going to have to have lots of these nights. “They’re crucial for the players because you can be defined as an individual and as a group by success. “This means going into the next stage of the Champions League which is a place we want to be in, and another platform for the players to play.” Chelsea predicted line-up vs Lille – Champions League
Chelsea (4-3-3): Arrizabalaga; Palmieri, Zouma, Rudiger, Azpilicueta; Kante, Jorginho, Mount; Pulisic, Abraham, Willian