Lagos – President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, has urged the First Lady, Aisha Buhari, to desist from turning the Presidential Villa into a rumour mill and stop exposing Nigeria and Nigerian sovereignty to regional  and international ridicule and pity. Malachy’s reaction was followed by the recent attack on one of the president’s spokesperson, Mr Shehu Garba, by the First Lady, who accused him of failing in his responsibility and pitching tent with the cabal that has allegedly hijacked her husband’s Presidency and home. In his reaction, the CDHR president said the First Lady can express herself under the constitution but did not have the right to turn the villa to a rumour mill. He said: “I recognise Aisha Buhari’s right to freely express herself under Section 39 of the 1999 Constitution as a citizen of Nigeria, but I do not recognise her right to turn the Presidential Villa into a rumour mill that draws oxygen from the inanities of trivial domestic quarries capable of exposing Nigeria and Nigerian sovereignty to regional and international ridicule and pity. “Loyalty to Aisha Buhari cannot approximate loyalty to the President, Commander-in-Chief of Federal Republic of Nigeria. In any case, loyalty is better measured by its strict adherence to the constitution and the country and not individual.” The human right activist further added that, “It is bad enough that the absence of accord, coherence and coordination of the affairs of government are frequently communicated by the first lady yet, the greater danger lies in the “disclosure” albeit affirmation that her husband,  “Gen” Mohammadu  Buhari, is no longer aware and, by implication, in charge of both the content and channel of communication in the Villa. “Madam Aisha must exit the misconceived notion that the office of the first lady is either a tradition or an institution. It’s neither of them as far as the 1999 Constitution is concerned,” he concluded. Meanwhile, Femi Adesina, special adviser to President Buhari on Media and Publicity, has said that his duties as presidential spokespersons did not concern family matters.