Ahead of the outcome of the ongoing negotiation for the new minimum wage between a joint committee set up by the Ebonyi State Government and the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the state governor, David Umahi, has told the leadership of the union to bear in mind that he was not elected to pay salaries alone. Umahi, who spoke on Monday at Onueke, the headquarters of Ezza South Council Area, on the sideline of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) 2019 account opening week, said in as much as his administration was ready to pay the new minimum wage, the negotiation must be pegged around the 60 percent recurrent expenditures of the local government. He said the remaining 40 percent earning of the LGAs must be used for projects, adding that he was prepared to face the leadership of Labour anywhere than exceed the 60 percent for payment of salaries and other recurrent expenditures. Governor Umahi said whatever that was agreed by the negotiation committee as the new minimum wage for the local government workers was what the state government would adopt for payment of the state workers. He explained that his administration, aside payment of workers’ salaries, must attend to other needs of the generality of the people who elected him. His words: “Negotiation for minimum wage is ongoing and we are ready and willing to pay. But I’m not sent here by Ebonyians to pay salaries alone. “Our benchmark is the local government. The local government must offer 60 percent of their earnings for recurrent expenditures. Not more than 60 percent. The other 40 percent must be used to do tangible things for our people. “Anybody body that says we will more than 60 percent I’m ready to be taken anywhere. So, the negotiation must hover around 60 percent for recurrent expenditures for all salaries and overheard for the local government must be there. “The chain is as strong as the weakest link. So, whatever the local government pays, that’s what the state government will pay. “So, I appeal to Labour people that we are not elected to pay salaries alone. “We must secure the people. We must give education. We must empower the people. We must lift up the plight of our people.”