ADO-EKITI – The just-concluded Local Government elections in Ekiti State, although adjudged to be credible by the coalition of observers groups,  was however blighted by an isolated incident of violence which resulted in the death of one person in Ikere-Ekiti. Controversies had trailed the process with the opposition raising allegation of a grand plot to undermine the exercise by the ruling party. Unlike the previous ones where the main opposition party boycotted the election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) officially participated. The party arrived at the hard conclusion after a sharp disagreement between its stakeholders. While those loyal to the immediate Governor Ayodele Fayose opposed to the party’s participation, the State Executive Council (SEC) led by Barrister Gboyega Oguntuwase endorsed the poll. The PDP made partial participation in the exercise by fielding candidates in few local governments out of the 16 councils. Initially, the PDP’s strategy for the poll was not made public. After announcing its readiness to participate in the poll, not much was known about its activities. Names of its candidates were not made public, neither did it embark on campaigns like the rival APC. The party was believed to be entangled in leadership crisis as a result of the power tussle between the immediate-past governor of the state, Ayo Fayose and Senator Abiodun Olujimi. Sunday INDEPENDENT learnt that the party was also facing serious financial difficulties having been allegedly underfunded by Fayose during his four year tenure. It was further gathered that Olujimi’s last minute intervention actually ensured that the candidates were mobilised for the poll. Fayose, while adducing reasons for his stance, told his supporters that his decision was not borne out of hatred or sabotage, but to save the PDP from unnecessary embarrassment and loss. Going down memory lane, Fayose disclosed it had been the tradition in Ekiti politics that the main opposition party usually boycotted council elections. According to him, during the tenure of Segun Oni, the then Action Congress (AC) did not participate in the election and in my second coming too, the APC also opted out. It is on the basis of these facts that I advised that PDP should not participate. We need to reposition the party before we begin to talk about successes. “Even the governorship election we did during my tenure, you can see how they treated us. For me, PDP did not lose that election but the power was taken away from us. Now what have we achieved with our participation in the election,” Fayose asked. Dotun Kosedake was shot by unknown assailants on Saturday at Ikere Ekiti. Four others, who sustained injuries, were reportedly receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital. The local government election, which was greeted by low turnout of voters was peaceful before the event turned bloody in the town. Governor Kayode Fayemi and the Speaker Ekiti State House of Assembly, condemned the incident, called for full investigation into matter. The governor commiserated with the family of Mr Dotun Kosedake, who was killed in the fracas that took place in Ikere-Ekiti on the day of the election. He called on police authorities in the state to get to the roots of what actually transpired with a view to bringing the culprits to book. “While the election was largely peaceful, the incident in Ikere was however, a sour point. We commiserate with the family of the deceased, even as I have directed the police in the state to investigate what actually transpired and bring the perpetrators to book,” he said. He lauded the professionalism of the EKSIEC officials under the leadership of Justice Jide Aladejana, saying that the hitch-free nature of the election was a reflection of their professional conduct. An eyewitness confirmed to journalists that the gun wielding thugs invaded a polling unit at Okitiko in Araromi area of Ikere Ekiti and shot sporadically, thereby disrupting the poll in the unit. “Apart from the man that was shot, about four people were wounded and the SIEC officials had to take to their heels. The boys came to snatch ballot box and when they were resisted, they started shooting. One person was killed in the process.” He said four others, who sustained injuries, had been taken to the hospital for intensive medicare. The police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Mr Sunday Abutu, said he had not been briefed as at the time of filing this report. Justice Jide Aladejana, however, declared the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates winners in the 16 Local Government Areas of the state in last Saturday elections. Speaking on the killing the PDP chairmanship in Ikere Local Government, Hon. Lateef Ibrahim, said the major offence of the deceased was that he tried to challenge those who were perpetrating fraud in the election. “It is very sad that this is happening in Ekiti. The deceased, who identified one of the perpetrators of the electoral fraud, said politely that ‘This is not good ooo!. And they shot at him. We have reported the matter at the Area Command and the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) had commenced action. Those who were injured during the incident have been interrogated by the Police. So, we are waiting for the final outcome of the investigation. But we know who did it,” the PDP chieftain said. Hon. Ibrahim also called for the cancellation of the results announced, saying no election took place on Saturday. The Returning Officers, the SIEC boss said, the APC candidate in Ado Local Government, Mrs Motunde Fajuyi, polled a total of  27,578 votes to defeat other 13 candidates in the election, while in  Ido/Osi,  Mr Adeola Adedimeji Lawrence of APC polled 15,879 to emerge victorious. The winners also included Ekiti East, Ogunjobi Esan who polled  11, 946; Efon, Mr Adetunji Bode Stephen  scored 9, 356; Ekiti  Southwest, Hon Amire Kola Kolade had 13,097; Ilejemeje, Akinola Oladunjoye scored 5, 477 votes, while in Moba,  Mr. Aborisade Michael  got 13,028. Ijero, Hon Ropo Ige (16,744 ); Ikere,  Mr. Oluwafemi Ayodele (13, 244); Gbonyin, Hon Ayodele Fadumiye (13,320); Emure, Hon Paul Awopetu  (11, 392); Ise/Orun, Mr. Mr Alabi Olanrewaju (12, 400 ); Ekiti West,  Kareem Agunbiade (21, 874); Ikole, Mr. Sola Olominu polled (21,228); Oye, Mr. Foluso James Ojo (20,352) and in Irepodun/Ifelodun, Mr  Shina Ogunleye won  with 22,896. On the reported killing, the electoral officer said preliminary investigation revealed that no one was shot at the polling unit and that the violence that erupted in the area, which he ascribed to cult clash, was not within the precinct of the polling unit. The PDP candidate only had a good showing in Ekiti East local government, where the candidate got 4,033 votes to emerge the runner up. Justice Aladejana said: “Nobody was killed at   ward 7 Unit 006 in Ikere on Saturday.  Nobody was shot.  Though, we heard that someone came violently and made away with unused ballot papers.  Even in the whole unit, there were just 280 registered voters and this does not in any way vitiate the outcome.” Describing the election as peaceful, Aladejana commended the security architecture in the state for ensuring that no one was intimidated during the poll. However, the PDP in its official reaction rejected the results of the election, called for the outright cancellation. The PDP chairman, Oguntuase who made the party’s position known, argued that the election was a ‘mere jamboree’ as it fails to meet the minimum standard, describing it as the worst ever in the political history of the state. He added the election was as a ‘political coup d’etat’, stressing that the results were allegedly written by the state government for the State Independent Electoral Commission officials to present and read. According to him, the exercise was another world war as it was marred with violence, killing and ballot snatching , adding that the results for  Ilejemeje, Ise/Orun, Ikere-Ekiti, Ekiti East were written without any conduct of election. “The Ekiti PDP outrightly reject the results of the Saturday’s council  in totality. What we had was a mere tragedy and comedy. It was comedy in the sense that it was a drama of people who wanted to imitate or let the activities have semblance of democracy while truly the essence of democracy was bastardised. “In all the 16 local government and 177 wards there was truly no election. For proper election to hold, there are certain materials that are important. But I want to tell you categorically that in Ilejemeje, Ido-Osi, Ise/Orun, Ikere, Ikole and other councils’ ballot papers and boxes were not supplied. “We were surprised that in area where there was no election results were announced. What happened in Kogi state was exactly what Governor Kayode Fayemi and his men did in Ekiti.” Oguntuase, however, declared seven day of mourning period for the killing of Dotun Kosedake and four others who casualties currently receiving treatment at the intensive care unit of Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital. He directed its members to shun any party activities in honour of the victims taking effect from Monday, December 9. The PDP had rejected the appointment of the chairman of the Ekiti State Electoral Commission (EKSIEC), Justice Jide Aladejana by PDP over an alleged credibility issue.  The PDP claimed that Aladejana had been dismissed and lacked moral and legal rights to occupy such exalted position. But, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in a statement by the Director of Media and Publicity, Sam Oluwalana, explained that from all available records, the case of the judge was still ongoing in the judiciary. Elder Oluwalana pointed out that it was high time the jobless members of the opposition be reminded that judicial process in the country dragged for a long period and that anyone that lost case at the lower court had the opportunity of approaching a higher court for redress. According to him, the state government was anchored on the wheel of true democracy and rule of law, and would never do anything which would be unconstitutional, especially in appointing people into public offices. “Eight of the 16 local councils in the state are still equally under the administration of elected chairmen who are card carrying members of the PDP. These are in a position to brief their party on how Dr Fayemi is handling their councils’ funds, rather than dishing out information gathered at beer parlours,” Oluwalana added “Necessary papers of public office holders, especially political appointees, passed through the due process before such appointments are made public.” Oluwalana, also SSA Media (Party Matters) to the Ekiti State governor, reminded the opposition PDP,  which he described as ignorant and clueless, that it was dabbling into a matter which it knows next to nothing about. The APC spokesman maintained that as its name implies, the SIEC remained an independent body, adding that the PDP had foreseen its defeat in the local government election and therefore, concocting and fabricating lies to explain its impending loss to their paymasters “If they have anything against the SIEC members, the courts are there for them to approach and seek redress, rather than making unfounded allegations,” he further stressed. Another issue, which generated controversy, was the resolve of the electoral to allow other valid means of identification for voting aside the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). The PDP Publicity Secretary, Jackson Adebayo, said it was a grand plan by the ruling party to undermine the electoral process. The EKSIEC, in a statewide broadcast, said it would allow voters without voter cards, but other valid means of identification to exercise their franchise in the council poll. Adebayo further alleged that the move was a panic measure by the APC having realised that the election would not be business as usual. “Any guideline  or ‘law’ made by the state government through State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC) that runs contrary to the Electoral Act and constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria will be vehemently resisted by the party and rejected by the people,” the statement  read in part. “It is condemnable for the electoral body to be asserting that those without voter cards can use driving licence or National ID Card as an alternative, saying that where is it provided for in the Electoral Act and the country’s constitution?” The party added that most of the guidelines laid down by the Ekiti SIEC are not acceptable to law, an observation which the party had raised in the past and under no circumstances would the party accept liability for the breach of these obnoxious outlaw guidelines. PDP explained that the governor and his SIEC should do the state good if he could just accept the fact that the state belongs to all, and not only his party, the All Progressive Congress (APC), where its constitution could be twisted to fit into some people’s  desires. According to the party, there was no ambiguity in Local Government election as the government wanted to be presenting it now,  hence it was advisable for the SIEC to follow only what was obtainable in general elections, rather than taking some illegitimate short cut to bar other parties’ candidates from contesting in the election. The party spokesman noted that that the idea of using other ID cards, rather than voter cards was a deliberate arrangement to rig the election which would not be acceptable under any guise. ‘The position of the  law is that voters would come for accreditation with their voters card and proceed to cast their vote,  anything aside from this is a laughable abracadabra that is neither acceptable to the PDP or the people of Ekiti State.’ Meanwhile, the Coalition of Civil Society Domestic Election Observer Groups, had lauded the role played by officers deployed by the Ekiti State Police Command in last Saturday’s council poll. The  coalition’s team leader, Muhammad Al-Jameel Hashidu,  while briefing journalists about outcome of their activities, maintained that the fact that materials arrived at the 2,195 polling units promptly, voting and collation freely done in a manner bereft  of harassment and intimidation, attested to the credibility of the poll. The observers added that  the  election witnessed high turn-out of voters in major cities in contrast to what were witnessed at the hinterlands, hinging this on low level of sensitisation at the remote areas. The election was held in all the local government areas on Saturday, with the ruling All Progressives Congress winning all the 16 Chairmanship and 177 councillorship seats. “We, the coalition of Civil Society Domestic Election Observer Groups that observed the 2019 local government election in Ekiti State do hereby state that the election conducted was not only free, fair and credible but violence free, which makes it  meets international standards and best practices.” The coalition called for more voter education and advocacy at the grassroots and proper funding for SIEC to prosecute future elections. The National Coordinator of Network of Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria, Com. Victor Kalu, said the neutrality maintained by government and security agencies reinforced the acceptability of the poll. “As much as government neutrality in the exercise was evident, we must not fail to indicate that the government of Ekiti State, to the extent of their official responsibility did whatever was in their line of duty to ensure an effective and peaceful election. “Again, we emphasise the contributions of the Ekiti State Police Command in posting police officers to every nook and cranny of the state during the exercise. We applaud the unwavering commitment of the police for the good job done. “We also commend the people of the state for the maturity they exhibited during the exercise. Most importantly, we salute them for eschewing  the extremes of violence.”