Dr. Agbazuere, the Chief of Staff to Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu, said on Wednesday that the government had presented to the state House of Assembly an executive bill for a law to provide free medicare to elderly persons in their homes. Agbazuere said this in Umuahia during a brief reception organized in honor of his appointment by the President and Founder of Vision Africa International, Bishop Sunday Ndukwe. He said, “I personally presented a bill to the house on behalf of the governor for a law to ensure that all elderly people in Abia will be receiving free medical services in the comfort of their homes.” He expressed special thanks to God and the governor for finding him worthy for the plum job, saying that the news of his appointment came to him as a “pleasant surprise”.
He said: “The news of my appointment came as a pleasant surprise to me because I never lobbied for it neither was I told that it was coming. “But God who sees in the dark made the governor remember the son of a poor man to say he should also come and sit where great men sit.”
He assured the bishop that he would join hands with the governor to drive actions that would propel the state to the next level. “Indeed, a great Abia is envisaged. I promise our people that a great Abia they will see and I assure you that things will positively turn around,” he said.
Agbazuere, who holds a Doctor of Philosophy in Law, promised an open door policy, saying that he would be humble in service and also make himself accessible to all.
He thanked the bishop for the reception and further promised that he would not disappoint him and the entire Abia people. He listed the proposed multi-billion naira Enyimba Economic City, the successful promotion of made-in-Aba products within and beyond the shores of Nigeria, as some of the landmark initiatives of Ikpeazu’s administration.
Earlier in a speech, Ndukwe said that the reception was meant to celebrate Agbazuere on his appointment, describing him as a trusted friend of many years standing.
He said that he had implicit confidence in him to collaborate with the governor to deliver the dividend of democracy to the people of Abia. In separate goodwill messages at the event, the Chairman of Abia Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, John Emejor, and a national officer of the union, Bonny Okoro, paid glowing tribute to Agbazuere.
They expressed the hope that the chief of staff, who is also the Pillar of Abia NUJ, would work toward the realization of the union secretariat, which has been under construction for more than two decades.