ABUJA – Security Personnel on election duty are henceforth to put on name tags for proper identification and deployed to specific locations during elections, Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu declared Wednesday in Abuja. The INEC boss also assured that the 2023 general election will be technology driven and that the commission is working with the national assembly to remove all encumbrances to full deployment of technology in the nation’s elections. Prof. Yakubu who was addressing chairman and members of the Interagency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES), said the body cannot afford to watch as thuggery and violence define the nation, alluding to the worrisome security situation during the concluded governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. He noted that the purpose of security deployment during elections is for protection of the voters, election officials and materials, accredited observers, the media geared toward safeguard of the integrity of the processes and operations, including the polling units and collation centres. Consequently INEC opined that “the deployment of security personnel in all future elections should be tied to specific locations and activities”. The INEC chairman added that henceforth all “security personnel deployed to polling units and collation centres should be identified by name as is the case with INEC officials. “This will not only enhance transparency, but the Commission and security agencies will know who to contact in specific locations during elections when the need arises. “They will also be held responsible for the proper conduct of elections in those locations.” He said that the Inspector-General of Police, Adamu Abubakar has agreed to the review of present approach to the deployment of security personnel which will be tested in the court-ordered re-run elections holding next month. “We must also review the deployment of armed security to the outer perimeters so that they are readily available to counter the movement of thugs with the intention of disrupting elections through the intimidation of voters; harassment of election officials, observers and the media or snatching of election materials. “Arrest of offenders must be followed by a thorough investigation so that thugs and their sponsors are penalised under the law. “I wish to reiterate that while the Commission has no power under the law to cancel elections, we will not hesitate to suspend elections anywhere our officials report the disruption of the process or threats to the lives of voters, election officials and observers by acts of thuggery or community connivance.”