ABUJA – Two graduates of the Benue State University (BSU), Makurdi, and Joseph Sarwuam Tarkaa University of Agriculture, Makurdi, Godwin Akura and David Lorwuese have been arrested by the police with 184 ATM cards.
They were arrested by operatives of the Special Tactical Squad (STS) with the cards from different banks bearing different names.
The two-man gang that specialised in robbing people at ATM points was paraded on Tuesday in Abuja by the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba.
While addressing newsmen, Mba disclosed that the suspects were arrested during a mop up operation by STS.
According to him; “The suspects do go to the ATM points, loiter around and when one is trying to make withdrawal, they approach the person under the pretext to offer assistance.
“In the process, two things could happen, it is either that, they help you and in the process, exchange your ATM card with their card that is inactive, making you to leave the ATM point without cash.
“Or they help you to make the withdrawal and exchange your card with theirs making you leave the ATM point with cash and their defective ATM card.
“A total of 184 ATM cards from different banks with different names were recovered from the suspects,” he said.
In their chats with Daily Independent, 30-year-old Bachelor of Science graduate in Educational Technology from the BSU, Akura, and 31-year-old Iorwuese, a Bachelor of Science graduate of Animal Nutrition from J.S Tarkaa University of Agriculture, said they normally went to various ATM stands pretending as if they wanted to withdraw money.
According them; “When we are at the ATM stand, we pretend as if we are having network challenges until we find a person who is having challenges. When the person wants to withdraw, we approach and offer to help. We then make the withdrawal and give the person a replica of his or her card after collecting the pin.
“We started this since 2016 and we were arrested that same year. We were charged to court, after our release, I (Akura) went for NYSC. I finished my service and was working before my arrest again.”
The suspects claimed that they have made over N3million since they started the criminal act, but have not invested in anything, claiming that, “the money doesn’t come in bulk.”