Dr. Chike Walter Duru, the Senior Special Assistant, Media and Communications, Office of the Deputy Governor of Imo State, is also the Chairman, Board of Governors, Freedom of Information Coalition, Nigeria and a member of the National Steering Committee of the Open Government Partnership- OGP, Nigeria. In this interview with CHRISTIAN NWOKOCHA, he speaks on governance in Imo State, transparency in governance, Open Government Partnership, citizens’ participation, among others. Excerpts: Imo State has applied to join the Open Government Partnership. You are a member of the National Steering Committee of OGP Nigeria. What is the OGP about? Open Government Partnership (OGP) is a multi-stakeholder initiative that focuses on improving government transparency, accountability and responsiveness to citizens through technology and innovations. It was launched in 2011 by eight founding member-countries, following their endorsement of the Open Government Declaration. The eight countries are: Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico, Norway, The Philippines, South Africa, United Kingdom and United States of America. Nigeria joined the OGP in July 2016, two months after President Muhammadu Buhari attended the Anti- Corruption Summit organised by the government of the United Kingdom in May, 2016. At the Summit, the Nigerian President reaffirmed his government’s commitment to strengthening anti-corruption reforms and bringing integrity to governance through leadership by example. In Imo State, the present administration of Chief Emeka Ihedioha has left no one in doubt, as to his commitment to running an open and transparent government. He has applied to join the OGP. This is a step in the right direction. The next thing to do is to bring stakeholders together to take it forward. There is need to set up a State Steering Committee, made of state and non-state actors. OGP promotes co-creation. The implication is that there is equal representation and equal rights in decision making. All decisions are taken collectively. There is no chairperson. What we have are Co-chairs for Civil Society and Government, respectively. The truth is that if we are able to effectively implement OGP in Imo, it will be a success story. Fit and proper persons, with relevant experience and capacity should be selected to drive OGP in Imo State. The good thing about the OGP is that states are at liberty to choose the commitments that they can implement. What are the roles of citizens in open government partnership? Good governance is not possible anywhere, without effective citizens participation. Public office holders will naturally take the citizens for granted, whenever there is a docile citizenry. The Government holds and manages the common wealth of the people on trust. It is the duty of the citizens to hold those in public positions accountable. If citizens do not take steps to participate in the business of governance, then they have failed in their duties. When citizens ask relevant questions, taking advantage of existing laws and instruments, those in public offices will naturally sit up, knowing that the people are watching. When citizens begin to ask questions, public office holders will become more careful and corrupt practices reduced. In Imo, we have an administration that has shown commitment to transparency principles. It is now for the citizens to play their part. Could you please, be specific in telling us the Laws that empower citizens to hold the government accountable? Apart from the 1999 Constitution, as amended, Nigeria’s Freedom of Information Act is a very powerful tool for citizens’ participation in governance. The FOI Act aims to make public records and information more freely available and to protect public records and information, in accordance with the public interest and protection of personal privacy. It enables citizens to hold the government accountable in the event of the misappropriation of public funds or failure to deliver public services. It also seeks to protect serving public officers against any adverse consequences from the unauthorized disclosure of certain kinds of official information, and to establish procedures for the achievement of these purposes. The Act further regulates conflicts between its provisions and those of other legislation including the Criminal Code, Penal Code or Official Secret Act that prescribe criminal penalties for actions connected to the disclosure of Information. Fortunately, Imo State now has an FOI law. Most developed countries of the world hinged their development on access to information. The effective implementation of the FOI Act will open the governance space; engender transparency and accountability, while enhancing citizens’ participation in governance. If citizens take advantage of the FOI Act, cases of poor execution of government projects and in some cases, outright abandoning of projects will be checked. Are you saying that making Annual Budget available to citizens is part of government responsibility? Yes. It baffles me when some state governments deliberately keep the annual budget of their states away from citizens. It is very strange. A Budget is a Law, just like every other law made by the legislature and assented to be the Governor or President, as the case may be. It should be available everywhere and people should not go through difficulties in accessing them. Keeping it away from the citizens is criminal. If citizens do not have copies of the annual Budget, how then can they monitor budget implementation? How can they point out issues with the appropriation? In fact, at every stage of the budget cycle, citizens should participate actively, from inception to implementation. This is one sure way of monitoring government expenditure. Sir, what factors do you think will make investors to come to Nigeria or stay away from it? I am of the view that several factors determine whether investors come to market or not; but it is a given fact that when investors have confidence in the integrity of the market and integrity of regulators, it gives them the confidence to come to the market when other factors are favourable. It is not a sufficient factor, but a critical factor in determining the issue of investors’ coming to the market. Investors will always prefer to come to the market when the rules are well defined and obeyed, the regulators have strong integrity and the market integrity is not in doubt. The other factors, for instance,  local investors are looking at where they will maximise their returns, look at returns that are higher than inflation rates, look at the best investment outlets, then look at the prospects of capital appreciation, then look at the dividend payment policies within the environment. For foreign portfolio investors, they are looking at what is the exchange rate outlook, what is the government policy on exchange rate, what are the risks that they are exposed to in terms of exchange rate loss and then what are the income opportunities within that market and vis-a-vis the cost of revenue in the local market. So, several factors account for what will make investors come to the market or stay away, but integrity of the market is necessary but not sufficient factor for investors to come to the market. What opportunities exist currently in Nigeria for the youths who wish to make money and build successful enterprises? Nigeria has many untapped resources: from minerals and agriculture, manufacturing to services and tourism. Each one comes with a different level of complexity, different need for investment, but all are strong and possible starting points. The more complex the business, the more it will require, for you to be experienced and skilled, and the need for more capital. Today, the Nigerian banking sector offers financing and loans for good projects and businesses, and it is true that interest rates are still high, and that some collateral or partial guarantees is required, as well as some starting capital (savings or land) as equity from the investors. Today, often regarded as Africa’s sleeping giant, Nigeria has the potential to become one of the world’s most inspiring economic success stories given the size and scale of business and investment opportunities it presents. The Nigerian government has realised that they need to make the country as attractive and lucrative as possible for offshore investors to bring their capital, skills and business trade into the country. I am of the view that one way is to provide tax holidays to pioneer companies, who are engaged in the production of export goods, establishing new industries, or expanding production in vital sectors of the economy. A good opportunity in Nigeria would be the medium scale production of agriculture produce or animal farming or manufacturing. There is a growing middle class in Nigeria with a growing disposable income, and thus internal tourism such as lodges, and countryside bed and breakfasts are also a developing opportunity for small family-owned businesses. Good quality private education and private health care clinics are also sectors of potential business growth in the country, as people want to invest in education for their children. What is your Assessment of the present administration in Imo State? Without mincing words, Governor Emeka Ihedioha has started very well. He is laying a solid foundation for good governance in Imo State. One of the major things conspicuously missing in the last administration of Chief Rochas Okorocha was transparency. The last administration had a culture of corruption and impunity. In fact, former Governor Okorocha presided over Imo’s most corrupt administration, since the creation of the state. This administration inherited a state on life support and is taking steps to adequately tackle the challenges created by the last administration. You can see that loopholes and conduit pipes for stealing of state resources have reasonably been blocked. Structures are being put in place to ensure that enduring good governance systems are built. From Treasury Single Account; to OGP and many other reforms. What about audit of the civil service? Can you see the number of ghost workers already identified and the savings it will make for the state? What about the Pensions verification and payment? It will only take a mischievous person not to recognize the efforts of the present administration, considering where we are coming from in Imo State. Are you saying Imo State has huge Infrastructural deficit? Yes. It is no news that there are no good roads in Imo State. It is a shame that within five months of the exit of the Rochas Okorocha-led administration, there are no good roads in Imo State. Ihedioha inherited a state with decayed infrastructure and very high debt profile. They almost stole the state to death. I do not envy Governor Ihedioha because he took over from a very unpatriotic administration. However, I am proud to say that the present administration is people-oriented and is committed to addressing the numerous challenges in governance. Could you please, tell us your experience in working closely with Imo State Deputy Governor, Engr. Gerald Irona The Deputy Governor of Imo State, Hon. Gerald Irona is a selfless, dependable and responsible leader. He is a grassroots politician, who takes special interest in putting smiles on the faces of people. His commitment to the success of the Rebuild Imo administration is immeasurable. All through his life in public service, he has continued to touch the lives of thousands of people. The combination of Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha and Engr. Gerald Irona as Governor and Deputy Governor of Imo State respectively is one of the best things that have happened to Imo State. What is your say on the litigations against the victory of Governor Emeka Ihedioha People should stop wasting their time and resources. Imo people have spoken and it is final. I expect all those pursuing impossible court declarations to stop forthwith and join hands with Governor Emeka Ihedioha in rebuilding Imo. All Imo citizens should join hands with Governor Emeka Ihedioha to rebuild Imo State. Civil Society in Imo must rise to the challenge of mobilizing citizens to participate in governance, if the state must move forward. The Governor and the Deputy Governor cannot be everywhere at the same time. It is the responsibility of citizens to raise flags whenever and wherever things are not going well, with a view to drawing their attention. The Government must consolidate on the great initiatives. Governor Ihedioha must watch fifth columnists and sycophants, so they don’t derail his administration. Citizens’ engagement should be more frequent. Having round pegs in round holes is the way to go. In 2015, you were listed among the top ten media executives in Nigeria by the International Biographical Center. How did it happen? The book “Nigerian Top Executives in the Entertainment & Media Industry” contains comprehensive biographies of the top 10% highest-ranked executives of Nigeria’s entertainment & media industry. Inclusion in the bibliography was determined according to unique and objective criteria that consisted of a combination of total number of employees managed and visibility in international business networks. The Nigerian Top Executives in the Entertainment & Media Industry 2015 is available world-wide on Amazon. Could you please, tell us who you are? I am Dr. Walter Duru. I am Senior Special Assistant, Media and Communications, Office of the Deputy Governor of Imo State. I hold a Doctorate Degree in Mass Communication from the University of Uyo, Nigeria. I got my Master’s and Bachelor’s Degrees in Mass Communication from University of Nigeria, Nsukka and Imo State University, Owerri, respectively. I did my Secondary education at Holy Ghost College, Owerri, while my Primary Education was at College of Education Demonstration Primary School (Shell Camp), Owerri. I was Head of the Department of Mass Communication, Madonna University, Nigeria, where I taught specialized courses in Communication. While in active media practice, I rose to be a Deputy Editor of a National Daily newspaper. I am an online Publisher. I am a Communications and Advocacy Consultant with the British Council. I also consulted for USAID. I chair the Board of the Freedom of Information Coalition, Nigeria. I am a member of the National Steering Committee of the Open Government Partnership- OGP Nigeria, where I co-chair the Access to Information Working Group. I am a good governance advocate, with special interest in transparency in governance. Do I continue?