ADO-EKITI – Ekiti State government would soon turn the first plane crash site in Africa in Ikogosi town to tourists’ haven. The governor hinted that the site, when fully put into use, would complement Ikogosi Cold and Warn Spring site also in the community. The relics of the Second World War German plane, which was conveying ammunition crashed at exactly 8:00pm on April 2nd, 1947 at Okelapa, Ikogosi Ekiti, killing all the people on board. Director General of the Council for Arts and Culture, Wale Ojo-Lanre, who led a team of officials to the site on behalf of the governor, disclosed that the action would not only help in shaping history, but would also expand the revenue base of the state. He noted that the Governor Kayode Fayemi was committed to identifying the various tourist and cultural sites in the state with a view to adding value to them. He said government was desirous of  turning  the sites  to sources of empowerment, adding that the upgrading of the council  to a full-fledged Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, was a development that has created an enabling environment crucial to achieving the cultural-tourism vision of Fayemi’s government. Inspecting the relics of the aircraft, Fayemi pointed out that “necessary steps would be put in place to ensure that the site is given a face-lift to attract tourists, saying that all the tourist and cultural sites in Ekiti would be upgraded to acceptable global standard and showcase to the world. “I appreciate the government for developing the Ikogosi Warm Spring Resort site to an acceptable global standard as demonstrated by facilities being provided at the site”. The Onikogosi of Ikogosi, Oba Elijah Olorunisola, pledged the readiness and cooperation of the town at ensuring that the site is given a face-lift in order to attract tourists from far and near which according to him would have a multiplier effect on the revenue base of the people and the government. Oba Olorunisola submitted lamented the attitude of the immediate past administration towards the tourist site which he said did not only suffer neglect during that period but was vandalised. Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Ganiyu Titilope, said the Fayemi-led government has given the Ministry the necessary impetus to deliver on his mandate to make Ekiti the hub of tourism, arts and culture in the country.