Real Madrid are reportedly preparing to offer up close to €300million [£256m] for Kylian Mbappe. The deal would also see Vinicius Jr sent to Paris Saint Germain, and could be good news for Manchester United. Manchester United are reportedly nervous about losing Paul Pogba to the Spanish giants, so news of a bid for Mbappe would be well received. Pogba has long been tipped with a move to Madrid, who are keen admirers of the midfielder. The Frenchman poured fuel on the fire earlier this summer when he admitted he was keen for a new challenge in football, prompting speculation that he would leave. But Madrid were unable to afford him then, and it seems unlikely that they will make a move any time soon, if the reports of a bid for Mbappe bid are to be believed. JUST IN: Manchester United beating Tottenham proves Jose Mourinho was right about one player Spanish outlet AS ran a story on their front page on Thursday claiming that Madrid will offer up Vinicius and money for 20-year-old Mbappe. European football insider Tancredo Palmeri reported that the figure could be up to €300m [£256m], which would obliterate the current world transfer record of £200m – dating back to Neymar’s 2017 move from Barcelona to PSG. Mbappe will reportedly wait until the end of the season before deciding his future, with the Ligue 1 keen to tie him down to a new contract. The forward is under contract until 2022, but the French champions are desperate to keep him long-term, especially with Neymar likely to leave next summer. Brazilian megastar Neymar is still linked with a return to Barcelona next summer, after a failed bid in the previous window. And for that reason, PSG are adamant that Mbappe will be going nowhere. The young megastar has not engaged in contract talks as of yet, as he is reported to be focusing all his attention on this season, which would likely be his last playing alongside Neymar. According to AS Monaco vice president Vadim Vasilyev, the youngster knew from his time at the Southern France side that he was special, but was wary of moving to Madrid too early. He told La Parisien: “When? I don’t know but it seems inevitable. “The offer from Real Madrid [before PSG transfer] was very interesting for Monaco, and he [Mbappe] told me: ‘Vadim, it’s too soon for me. “‘I haven’t played more than a year in my own country. I’m from Paris and I don’t want to leave my country right now.’ “‘I want to become a great player here. Real Madrid will wait for me’.”