Prof. Charles Dokubo, Special Adviser to the President on the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) is not afraid to confront problems, no matter how delicate. In this chat to mark the 10th anniversary of the PAP, recently in Abuja, he admitted that the programme has been bedeviled by myriad of challenges since inception. He, however, proffers solutions as TONY EZIMAKOR brings the excerpts: The amnesty office is about ten years now. What has been your experience since taking charge of the programme? I have been here for about a year and eight months and I know the situation but don’t want to castigate or try to do any harm to the prestige of anybody. I started the programme the way I met it and ever since, I have changed the direction and the trajectory of the programme. I came in at the third phase, that is the reintegration state of the amnesty programmme where you can train people and get job for them so that they could earn salary instead of depending on stipend culture that has become part of Niger Delta system. What I tried to do is try to carve a niche for the programme in the sense that, now, we are going to train the youth, give them equipment to provide jobs for themselves or provide a job-based entry into the amnesty office. Has it been a smooth sail, or are there obstacles to the direction you’re driving the programme? In doing this, I met a lot of challenges. One is the fact that most of them preferred collecting the stipend than actually working. We have a situation where a graduate earns N50, 000 while somebody stays at home and earns N65, 000 as stipend. So they reason that if they can stay at home and earn more why would they go out to earn N50, 000. But there is a missing gap in that narrative; and that is they have a job and that they can progress from that appointment to earning twice that amount. That is the right thing because I believe that this programme cannot be forever. You definitely want the programme to change and in what direction? I believe there is need for a change in the direction of the programme. So that if it is done, it should be done well to also reduce the number of portfolio contractors in the place. The amnesty programme has been bedeviled with a lot of things in the past and when you get to a place and see people that have entrenched themselves in the system and you try to bring in reform there would always be resistance. It was in amnesty office that I first heard of vendors association. There is no competitive bidding for contracts in the office. The thing is, we don’t give contract to groups, we give to individuals and there must be competitive biddings. These are the things that I met in the office and I have tried to change that. In the past, people are awarded contract and they would not execute it. The concept of giving some percentage of money to contractors is also a challenge. We realised that some of them collect the money and would not come back to do the work again. But turning this around and mandating the contractors to source for fund and execute the contracts before being paid have generated outrage. The highpoint for me was putting structures on ground that will enable our people to be trained and have the required certification so they could have jobs. If they don’t have jobs and they are totally dependent on the stipends, no change will happen in the Niger Delta. We need to prepare the mind of our people for change. After ten years of the amnesty programme, how are you addressing the seeming constant number of beneficiaries? When I took over, we had 30, 000 people that are beneficiaries of the amnesty programme and it is still 30, 000 after 10 years. What it means is that nobody died and nobody graduated from institutions. We have seen letters from solicitors saying a beneficiary died and his son must take over. It is only in Nigeria that amnesty is family related. That is why you can see the outrage, and the contestation of power. We need a new thinking, and that is where I keyed in. There was a new concept referred to as impacted communities. Impacted communities are communities not directly affected by the conflict but because of the crisis, their ways of living was also impacted negatively. Amnesty office is not only taking care of the ex-militants but also those who were affected by the conflicts. The truth is, the number we are still training is too much and it is frightening. How many beneficiaries have undergone training? If you look at the people that have been trained and with certification, they are more than 10, 000. And the database has also been corrupted. Also the allegiance of some people working in the amnesty office is at variance with the objective of the programme. They are more committed to people that brought them in than the office itself. Some people were trained by amnesty, given jobs by amnesty and they have served for over five years, but when you move them to different positions, they kick. Listening to you, one has the feeling that the solution is still not here. I came in with a new idea that we need to eradicate some of these shortcomings in the programme but in trying to do that, one is faced with resistance like sponsored protests. The programme was set to maintain peace in the Niger Delta, after that human development. Stipends for me, is to pay people so that they could be at ease with themselves. But also, the programme is to enhance human capacity, vocational training for that matter, especially training in the oil and gas sector. If we can create a large group of educated and well-certificated people, they could be employed by the international oil companies and bridge that gap of perceived marginalisation. The challenge here is how do you convert people that are used to a pattern of life? This is what I have been facing. However, I am so used to criticism. There must be a change to the direction of the programme. Let’s look forward to a time where amnesty would be only for training our people, not for giving indolent people money for being idle. There’s this allegation of corruption, what do you say to that? We don’t have a bank in our office. The Central Bank pays money to us. Another aspect is, when I took over office, I noticed that the budget for school fees and living expenses of our students are increasing instead of reducing. I found that there was a deployment of about 800 students to various schools and these people did not go through the amnesty office. Some staffs of the offices were taking money on their behalf and put in their names while they were not even in the projects. That is why I usually say that amnesty is for Niger Deltans but not all Niger Deltans are beneficiaries of the programme. That you are from Niger Delta doesn’t mean you must be a beneficiary. The thing is you must be in the database. That means you must have a UN code. Everyday you see people making demands and many of our people do not know how proper the demands are. But it is not all about the negative. The positive side of the programme is that when you build structures, cut down on stipends and concentrate on training of your people, then they could go out like every other Nigerian and look for jobs because no part of the country is being infected and infested with interventionist agencies like the Niger Delta. What has these interventionist agencies done to transform the lives of the people? Even the UN does not have the accurate indices for our people. Amnesty has done well. They have trained a lot of people. During the last graduation of Afe BabaLola University, we had about 12 First Class. There are also students who are on scholarship abroad, they finish their exams and would not come to Nigeria but yet want amnesty to continue to pay them. The thing is if you are on scholarship and after the first degree, you want an extension, you write to the office. And it is on the right of the office that you will be able to continue your studies. Also, from the time I came in, I know there is a faulty deployment of students for scholarships because why would you send someone abroad for an HND programme when we have a lot of institutions here. My fear is that, a time will come and the government would demand a total assessment of the amnesty programme due to the amount sunk into it. So the Niger Deltans and other Nigerians must have good knowledge of what the programme is about. What’s the update on the Kayama report? The Kayama report has been submitted to the Inspector General of Police for more than three months. Those who have been indicted have been indicted. It is not within the purview of my office to withhold the report. The report was done by the Bayelsa state police department and was submitted to the IGP. Are you under any investigation? I am not under any investigation. And most of the time, when I go to the office of the Department of State Services (DSS), it is about past queries that even preceded me. I still receive letters of queries from EFCC and other agencies on Kingsley Kuku, Timi Alaibe and even on Boro tenures. That is why I have been going there, so it is not about anything related to my own tenure. How have you been dealing with the vendors in the amnesty office? I even think it is not normal to have a group of people who tagged themselves amnesty vendors. Contracts are given to individuals who have the capabilities to perform. For me, that is an illicit way of getting contracts and then not performing because they claimed they come from the region. This sense of entitlements pervades whatever people do there. If you are done and completed your contract, then you must bring a certificate of completion. It is on this basis that the office will pay you. And like I mentioned, we had to cut off the 15 per cent initial mobilisation payment. This is because when people get the money, they no longer execute the project. They use multiple companies to get the 15 per cent. We looked at our liabilities and we found that most people that get the 15 per cent ended up doing nothing. So we wrote to them that before they get anything again they must complete the work. We are not doing a direct labour service. Another thing is that some of these people who parade themselves as vendors, when you give them contract, they don’t have the resources to execute it. They will go and sell it at the Hilton. They are not even used to doing contracts. They just believe that because they come from the region they must be given contracts. And anything that has that kind of sense of entitlements to me damaged the entire region. We give contracts to all those who are capable. On the appointment by President… I came from a very structured institution where you are promoted after some years. When I got into this office, I didn’t know that this was the terrain. The thing is if you have not done your job well, let people come and investigate you. The president appointed me and I know the way the appointment came and the mandate – to redirect and complete the amnesty programme. I don’t even need a letter because I know the content. So it has the pleasure of the president to terminate appointment if he feels I am not doing my job well. Also, for me, appointment is not for life. It is only those who have taken it so serious that want to die for it. I will not die for this office. I will like to live beyond it. How often do you consult with stakeholder? I do consult with stakeholders. In the past one month, I have gone to Uyo and Calabar for phase one and two. Now the other group to meet is the phase three leaders. These are the foot soldiers of the so-called big five. I noticed that most of them do not have in-depth knowledge of what the programme is all about. Furthermore, some states in the Niger Delta like Ondo, Delta, Abia and Imo are not adequately represented in the amnesty programme. If you look at the nature of the conflict that engulfed the Niger Delta, you will also know where the main actor came from. It is only the president that has the power to include those that will join the programme. My office does not have the power to do that because that will come with budgetary expansion. I cannot exclude or include anybody in the programme. Your stewardship and the avalanche of petitions… Anytime you look at the region, you can identify where the petitions are coming from. This is because there are certain parts of the region that believe they are the only Niger Deltans. And everything about appointment must come to them. The president can identify anybody that can do the job. People should judge me by my job. In the history of the programme, there are times that the beneficiaries were not paid stipends for three months. But I have paid two months stipends at the same time. I don’t think anyone can complain about my payment of stipends. I cannot sleep without paying them. Ending the amnesty programme is a government thing but if I have the control over it, after the provision of the vocational training center, the payment of stipends should be looked into, not stopped. Don’t get me wrong. So what would be your recommendation? For me, the 65, 000 stipend per person is a very important thing for the programme. When I was appointed, there was something they called bulk payment. Bulk payment is a system where you pay to a particular account, the leader, who in turn disburses the fund to his people. It was an unfair system because in most cases, when the money gets to that particular account, the 65, 000 could turn to 30, 000. When I took over, there was pressure for me to take steps. But I had to look at the political environment knowing well that if I take steps in that direction, the environment could go back into conflict. One has to be very careful. On the stipends, I was of opinion that the audit of the stipends should be done by security agents. Why I said so was because there could be room for possible deniability. It was not done by me, but security agencies. And it is time we do that. When I came into office, I was told there was what was called fake cards; I don’t want to go into it because I belonged to that region and I don’t want to say any derogatory of those who have held that office. The fact is that there were mistakes that were made and is still affecting the progress of that office. If they want to audit the programme now, they have to shutdown the database and get a forensic audit done. It will take about two to three months, then how are we going to pay these people. The thing is if you do you are down and if you don’t there would be accusation. But for me, I ensured that when I came into office, all payments from stipend to scholarships were done directly through the Central Bank. We have seen cases of universities in Nigeria inflated the number of students and they were asked by the NSA office to return money. And in some cases, they overcharged our amnesty students who are Nigerians like every other students. Some of them even want to pay security money for amnesty delegates. I told them security is all-inclusive and I asked them why my students would pay for security.