Abuja – The Presidential Support Committee (PSC) has described as unpatriotic and diversionary the call for the sack of Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Mr Yusuf Magaji Bichi, over the re-arrest of the convener of #RevolutionNow protest, Mr Omoyele Sowore.
PSC’s reaction followed an editorial published on Friday by an online paper, Premium Times, in which it claimed the DG DSS had become a major threat to the norms and values of a democratic system and, therefore, the time has come for him to step down as the head of the secret police.
The Presidential Committee, in a statement by its Director of Communication and Strategic Planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, said that it is “appalled by the Editorial by Premium Times calling for the removal of the DSS boss over the operations of the DSS operatives.”
It maintained that that the DG DSS is a law-abiding citizen, and under him, the agency has maintained the highest regard for the laws of the land and would not do anything to undermine law and order.
The PSC urged Nigerians to ignore the position of the online paper, describing it as the ranting of anti-democratic elements in the country’s political space who are bent on destabilizing the Buhari administration.
It said: “The Presidential Support Committee (PSC) wishes to ask Nigerians and indeed, the teaming supporters of the Buhari administration not to be distracted by the purported editorial by Premium Times. The call for the head of Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Mallam Yusuf Magaji Bichi is diversionary and unpatriotic and it is unfortunate that a respected online paper like Premium Times would allow itself as willing tool in the hands of those who are bent on ensuring that Nigeria implodes under President Muhammadu Buhari.
“The Mallam Yusuf Bichi we know and who Nigerians know further and better is highly law-abiding and always wishes to act according to the provisions of the extant laws of the country. He is not known to be going zigzag or undercutting corners in any matter. Rather, he is highly straightforward and upright in his private or official conduct.”