RAYMOND OZOJI AWKA 2face Idibia, Rude Boy, Acapella, Funny Bone and a host of other celebrities entertained guests who attended the Christmas Concert, one of the activities of the 2019 Anambra Homecoming Festival. The concert, one of the activities lined up for the second edition of the Anambra Homecoming festival held at Stanel Gas Station in Awka, Anambra State. A blend of conviviality and razzmatazz, celebrities thrilled the audience, ensuring that there was never a dull moment during the high-powered concert.Present at the event were top government functionaries, and business moguls such as Stanley Uzochukwu, CEO Stanel World, as well as the state Commissioner for Tourism, Culture, Diaspora Affairs, and Indigenous Arts, Barr. Sally Uwechue Mbanefo, initiator of the festival. Explaining the brain behind the Christmas concert, Barr. Mbanefo, said it was a collaborative effort between STANEL Group, Access Bank PLC and the Anambra State Government, adding that the essence was to showcase Anambra to the rest of the world as it relates to its potentials, industry as well as the tranquil atmosphere in the state. “Everybody must notice the Anambra State. The Governor is a silent achiever and he has done so much for the state too numerous to mention. We will have our Reggae Festival, Mmanwu Festival and a host of other events, all encapsulated in our Home-Coming Festivals being championed by the Anambra State Ministry of Culture, Tourism, Diaspora Affairs, and Indigenous Arts. “Umuobiligbo and Flavour will come take centerstage on 29th December; we have Davido at Nnewi on 2nd January, while Flavour take the front stage on 3rd January 2020, together with other activities for our people coming home from Diaspora and near. “Last year, we launched the maiden edition of Homecoming Festival where we upgraded facilities and launched tourism sites. We also honoured Nollywood actors of repute like Pete Edochie and Bob Manuel Udokwu, who were also part of the production for ‘Things Fall Apart,’ the drama presented by university students.” Barr. Mbanefo asserted the commitment of the state to continue to initiate programmes and activities aimed at promoting and showcasing Anambra’s rich cultural heritage and traditional values to the entire world, so that other nations could tap into the tourism potentials of the state