LAGOS – Nigeria’s feat in table ten­nis in the year under review cannot be com­plete without mention­ing the roles and part played by former President of the Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF), Barrister Wahid Enitan Oshodi. Oshodi, who is also the chair­man of the International Table Tennis Federation Nomination Committee, could be described as the force behind the several suc­cesses achieved by the country’s ping pongers in the year under review. Being the first Nigeria and Af­rican to head ITTF Committee, Oshodi’s immense contribution to table tennis in Nigeria and Africa has endeared him to the heart of the world table tennis family. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Apart from his administrative acumen which has taken Nigeria to an enviable position in the con­tinent, Oshodi was the brain be­hind the annual staging of Afri­ca’s elite table tennis tournament – ITTF Challenge Nigeria Open. In his remark, Olabanji Olada­po who is a Board of Director (BOD) of ITTF described Osho­di’s elevation as a plus to Nigeria and Africa. “This is a thing of joy to Ni­geria and I am so proud of him because he was the first NTTF President to make the ITTF Committee just six months after his election and it was this same Nomination Committee. In terms of sports politics globally and or­ganizing international competi­tion, Oshodi has proved himself. “His appointment did not come as a surprise to many in ITTF because he has shown his administrative efficiency at sev­eral platforms and for me this is a good development for Nigeria. “I am hoping that more oppor­tunities will come to Nigerians in ITTF. He is a good team player and I am so proud of him that he has made Nigeria proud with his conduct at several events in ITTF,” Oladapo said. Oshodi is also a two-time win­ner of the Administrator of the Year award at the annual Nigeri­an Sports Award (NSA). On the scene proper, Nigeria’s Aruna Quadri had to surmount several challenges including a back injury, to emerge champion in the men’s Singles at the 2019 ITTF Challenge Plus Nigeria Open, winning the tournament back-to-back at the Molade Okoya Thomas Indoor Sports Hall of the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos. Quadri, currently ranked number 21 in the world, fought bravely to ward off the challenge posed by Austria’s Robert Gardos, despite requiring medical atten­tion several times in the course of the game. With the support of the fans, he eventually snatched the victory with a 4-2 (15-13, 11-3, 8-11, 11-6, 10-12, 11-1) score line as the crowd went wild in jubilation. Speaking after the game, the Rio 2016 quarterfinalist said, “I feel really happy that I was able to defend my title and win it for Ni­geria. I picked an injury during the Round of 16 and had to keep playing like that. “At a point, I couldn’t even move my neck. I really want to appreciate the medical team be­cause they helped me a lot. I kept playing because I’m a fighter; I don’t give up. It’s not over until its over!” Quadri won a prize money of $7,000 while runner-up Gardos got $3,500 for his efforts. Although they did put up a good fight in the last two sets of men’s Doubles final, Nigeria’s duo of Segun Toriola and Olajide Omotayo finished runners-up after losing 3-0 (11-7, 11-9, 12-10) to the pair of Quentin Robinot (France) and Cedric Nuytinck (Belgium). Speaking about his inspiring partnership with seven-time Olympian Toriola, youngster Omotayo said: “I feel so happy because this is my first time of winning a medal at the Nigeria Open. “This will be my second time pairing with him (Toriola); the first time was at last year’s Com­monwealth Games. We didn’t lose any match. “I have more confidence pair­ing with him because he has a lot of experience, so it makes me calm to have him beside me. I don’t care which ever player we have to face. We are up to the task.” However, at the last Africa Games in Morocco, Omotayo gave an inkling of what he has in store again as the Nigerian defeated one of the continent’s most celebrated stars – Egypt’s Ahmed Saleh 4-3 in the quarter­final of men’s singles to berth in the semifinal of the Table Tennis event. Omotayo was all over the Egyptian in the encounter which had the fans glued to their seats all through. The Nigerian combined his backhand with forehand smooth­ly and this confused the Egyp­tian who had to surrender to the youthful star. Asides Omotayo, Aruna Quadri also walloped Congo Brazzaville’s Saheed Idowu 4-0 to berth in the last four and set up a rematch of the ITTF Africa Cup against Egypt’s Omar Assar. Seven-time Olympian Segun Toriola was at his very best when he also beat Egypt’s Khalid As­sar 4-3 to set up a semifinal clash against Omotayo. An elated Omotayo said: “I am so excited that in my first African Games, I made it to the semifinal. I knew that it was going to be a tough game against one of the most experienced African play­ers and I just ensured that I did not get angry on table because he did everything to upset me, but I was determined. I was calm and I am happy that this is a good out­ing for me in the singles.” In the women’s event, Olu­funke Oshonaike played her last game after going down 3-4 to Egypt’s Farah Abdel-Aziz, while Edem Offiong humbled Egypt’s Reem El-Eraky. The unexpected however happened on Thursday, August 29, as a new face emerged as the Champion of Africa in the men’s Singles event at the 2019 African Games. Nigeria’s Omotayo con­quered three of the best players in Africa to be crowned Cham­pion. From the quarterfinal stage, Omotayo worked his way to the final, beating two former cham­pions – Egypt’s Ahmed Saleh and Nigeria’s Segun Toriola in the quarterfinal and semifinal stages. The final produced the best of Africa with Aruna Quadri go­ing up against Omotayo and the fans were treated to an exciting match. Omotayo threw caution to the wind and raced to the lead with 3-0 (13-11, 11-9, 16-14) but the more experienced Quadri cut the lead to 3-2 with 8-11, 13-15 wins in the fourth and fifth games. The sixth match was a display of energy and skills and it was the younger Omotayo that scaled through with 12-10 win to claim the second GOLD medal for Ni­geria in the Table Tennis event of the multi-sports fiesta. In all, Omotayo won the gold medal, Aruna won the silver medal and Toriola won a bronze medal. Toriola and Omotayo won a bronze medal in the men’s doubles event. Aruna, Toriola and Omotayo also won the silver medal in the men’s team event. An elated Omotayo said: “I am very happy winning the Af­rican Games gold medal. I am so proud of myself because this is a big one for my career and it was a good journey for me from the start of this competition, having won against some of the best players in the continent. “I however owe my apprecia­tion to former president of the NTTF, Wahid Enitan Oshodi, who has been a contributing factor to my growing rise in the sport. “His words of encouragement and support is second to none and no doubt contributed to the success most of us have achieved in table tennis,” said Omotayo