It was excitement all the way in the coal city of Enugu on Monday as another batch of winners in the on-going Glo promo, Recharge and Win Big, popularly known as My Own Don Beta, received their prizes at a ceremony held at Ogbete Main Market, Enugu. The winners who came from Enugu and neighboring cities were accompanied by friends and relatives, all in joyous mood and bustling with enthusiasm, to collect their prizes. A total of 100 prizes, including tricycles (popularly known askeke), grinding machines, generators and industrial sewing machines, were won by subscribers in Enugu. Speaking at the event, Globacom‘s Regional Manager, South East 1, Mike Ehumadu, said Recharge and Win BIG promo was packaged essentially by Globacom to empower Nigerians with items that will help them earn a living. He stated that Enugu was the eighth city that had hosted the event, which started in Ojuelegba, Lagos eight weeks ago, adding that other cities including Abuja, Port Harcourt, Ibadan, Kano, Onitsha and Jos had hosted the events with Nigerians winning different empowerment prizes. “We are particularly delighted that hundreds of winners across the country have joyfully expressed their happiness that the prizes won in our promo will significantly transform their lives. For us as a brand, nothing is more fulfilling than seeing hundreds of people who are on the verge of giving up hope receiving a new lease of life and trade tools that inspired hope and gave them the reasons to face the future with renewed hope and expectations,” Ehumadu explained. The event was attended by important personalities including Mr. Madukwe Oliver, Assistant Director, National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Enugu Office, Chief Chika Okpala (aka Zebudaya Okoro Igwe alias 4.30) and the Chairman of Ogbete Main Market Association. The prize presentation also featured the draw for next set of winners. One hundred and twenty prizes including generators, grinding machines, sewing machines and tricycles were won by subscribers who will be receiving their prizes at the next event which is scheduled for Benin. Eboagha Ifeanyi, winner of Keke NAPEP expressed his joy, saying “I won a keke NAPEP. This thing that Glo is doing for us is commendable. God bless the Chairman of Glo, Dr. Mike Adenuga, because I believe he came out with this in order to assuage the suffering of Nigerians. And you can see that the Recharge and Win Big Promo is not that kind of N1000 recharge. You can win with as little as N200. I have been trying to manage my income, but I ensured that I recharged with N200 consistently. It is youth empowerment. It is an avenue for us to do something for ourselves and be independent. Abba Anthony, winner of Industrial Sewing Machine said “I am a student who is partly into tailoring. This came like a miracle. It is an encouragement and an indication that I should strive more in the tailoring business. I am super excited about winning an industrial sewing machine. I will never regret loading my Glo line again. Nigerians should keep using Glo. Glo is a working network which has the people in mind. Nigerians should remain with Glo. I have told my friends about the Glo promo. My Own Don Beta!” Another winner of generator, Eze Justin Ifeanyinchukwu, said “I live in 9th Mile. I won a brand new generator which I will use to power my house whenever there is blackout. I will maintain my Glo line. My own don beta now, seeing is believing!” John Ani, a mechanic who won a grinding machine, said “I will give the grinding machine to my wife. I will use it to grind things for my people for free. Glo has helped me, I want to help people too. God will bless Glo. Glo will even get better! Amen!” Ijiga Godday, winner of Keke NAPEP, could hardly conceal his joy when he said “I am a student of Umupagwu Community Secondary School, Enugu. I’m 18 and in SS3. I won Keke NAPEP. I will use it for business, for carrying people. That will get me money. My parents are very happy. They said I’m lucky. My friends are happy for me. I think Glo is the best network to use in the whole world. I thank Glo for what they have done for me. I pray that their business will keep growing. I can boldly say,My Own don beta.” Another winner of generator, Onoh Chidiebere, noted “I live in Enugu North. I am a civil servant with University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital. I will use the generator in my house. It will help my family, especially during the constant light outs. I thought it was fraud when I received a call but I decided to give it a try by going to Glo office where it was confirmed. To God be the glory. I thank Glo.” Eugenia Okolie, also a generator winner said “I am a business woman selling food in Enugu. I am so happy to win a generator. You know we have power problems in Nigeria. The generator will help me in powering my fridge to preserve my food and stew. It will also be useful to light my shop at night. I thank Glo. God will continue to bless them.” Augustine Obinna, also another generator winner said “I am a business man. I live in Enugu and I won a generator in the Glo promo. I am very happy and give all thanks to God and Glo. I will make good use of the generator. God continue to bless Glo and the people working there, while Uchenna Christopher, a winner of industrial sewing machine said “I am a mechanical engineer, currently working in Enugu. I won an industrial sewing machine. This means a lot to me. To begin with, this is my first time of winning anything in any promo. This is a golden opportunity for my wife to become a seamstress. She is currently a printer. God almighty will continue to bless Glo. What Globacom is doing is giving people the opportunity of starting from somewhere. I advise people to get Glo line. Next time may be their time.” Adams Danlami, winner of grinding mill explained that “I’m from Kogi State, but I currently live in Nsukka. I am a businessman. I sell beauty products. I won a grinding machine. I am so grateful for the prize. I will take it home for my people to grind things for people as a business. I am so grateful to Glo for giving me this opportunity to win this prize. I hope more people will know about this and recharge in order to win something like I have. It is not easy to fulfil promises and give prizes like these to people. Glo has done well.” Mohammed Sirajo Sanni, another lucky winner of a grinding mill said “I am into scrap business in Umuaiha. I won a grinding machine. It is time for me to step up now. I will stop the scrap business and start grinding business. I was suffering in the scrap business. I was always on the move. But now, I can stay in one place. At least I will have a steady source of income now. I will continue to pray for Glo. They are really helping Nigerians. My own don beta.I say thank you to Glo.” Nnaji Sunday, who won another generator expressed his joy, saying “I live in Enugu. I am a generator repairer and I won a generator. This is good news. I did not believe it when they called me. It was when they called again that I went to Glo office where it was confirmed. All I want to say is thank you, thank you and thank you, Glo. Nigerians should use Glo more. It’s our own network.” Ugochukwu Olisa, the winner of Keke Napep said “I live in Awka, Anambra State. I am a businessman. I don’t know that a promo was going on. I was just recharging my phones normally and was lucky to win Keke. It was such a surprise. To God be the glory. I want to thank Glo, they have bettered my life. Glo bless Dr. Mike Adenuga.” Ben Kidi, another Keke winner said “I am a farmer in Gboko, Benue State. I want to thank Glo for this prize. I am very happy. I will use the Keke for commercial purpose to make more money for myself and family. Thank God.” Chief Chika Okpala (aka Zebrudaya) said “this promo is wonderful. It’s a fantastic initiative, Glo is ‘talk na do’ company. I am very happy to see my people in joyous mood, winning different prizes here today at Ogbete Market, here in Enugu. Thank you Glo for helping Nigerians.” Madukwe Oliver, Assistant Director, Human Resources, National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Enugu also said “I am very excited to be here today. Globacom is a household name in telecommunication business in Nigeria. It has become a tradition for them every year to reach out to their subscribers. By giving out prizes, Globacom is just showing it’s appreciation to its subscribers across the country for their patronage and this is a good development.”