LAGOS – The unending crisis rocking the Edo State House of Assembly, has not only continued to generate reactions but has also continued to attract concerns from various stakeholders in the state. It would be recalled that the Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Frank Okiye had, during the 50th-anniversary thanksgiving of the state Deputy Governor, Phillip Shaibu, pleaded with the absentee lawmakers-elect to present themselves for inauguration so they could serve their constituents. However, the Speaker took a drastic decision few weeks ago, in which he declared vacant the seats of the 12 legislators-elect, for their refusals to present themselves for inauguration. The Speaker’s decision was said to have worsened the tenuous political situation in the state. Apart from the 12 lawmakers-elect, the House of Assembly also vacated the seats of two other members that could not meet up the mandatory sitting requirement for the 7th Assembly. As it was gathered, the resolution to declare their seats vacant was reached at the plenary on Wednesday, December 4, 2019. The seats that were declared vacant include: Etsako West I, Etsako West II, Owan East, Owan West, Etsako Central, Etsako East, and Esan Central; Uhunmwonde, Oredo East, Oredo West, Egor, Ovia North East I, Ovia North East II and Ovia southwest I. The Deputy Speaker of the House, Yekini Idiaye told newsmen that although, two of those affected from Oredo East and Owan East were sworn-in, but failed to meet the mandatory 181-day sitting requirement for a member in a legislative calendar year. In the cases of others that were yet to be inaugurated since the proclamation of the House, the deputy speaker clarified that their constituents have been complaining and have come to the House to request that they want their voices and concerns to be heard in the House. “So, people who are willing to provide quality representation have to be elected to bring the matters of the distraught constituents to the floor for debate and legislation, where necessary,” Idiaye added. In a bid to exploit and take advantage of the latest development, the Peoples Democratic Party in the state, took a bold step by writing the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), demanding that the Certificates of Return (CoR) issued to the 12 affected lawmakers-elect be withdrawn and presented to its candidates, who were first runners-up in the Edo State House of Assembly election held on the 9th day of March, 2019. In the letter addressed to the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, dated December 17th, 2019 and signed by Chikaodinaka Adindu Esq., the solicitor to the PDP and some of its candidates who contested the election, the party asked INEC to as a matter of urgency, intervene in the crisis rocking the state House of Assembly. Giving a brief fact about what necessitated the letter, the PDP Counsel said, “We have the understanding that our Client were nominated as the candidates of their political party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in their various constituencies to contest for their constituency’s seats in the Edo State House of Assembly in the Election held on the 9th day of March, 2019. “Consequent upon that, the Candidates of the All Progressive Party (APC) with respect of the above stated constituencies were declared winners of the election, certificates of returns were issued to them by your Commission in order for them to be qualified to be inaugurated as members of the 7th Edo State House of Assembly. “We further have the understanding that, as expected, the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki issued a Proclamation in line with the provision of Section 105 (3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) on the 14th day of June, 2019 and the date of the inauguration was given therein as 17th day of June, 2019 and all Members-elects were dully notified of the development by the Clark of the Edo State House of Assembly. “We further have the understanding that pursuant to the Proclamation issued by the Governor, the Edo State House of Assembly was inaugurated on the 17th day of June, 2019 with Nine (9) Members-elect presented themselves for inauguration and subscribed to their Oath of Membership/Allegiance. “It is pertinent to state that Mr. OKIYE, Francis Abunere emerged as the Speaker of the House of Assembly while IDIAYE, Yekini Oisayemoje also emerged the Deputy Speaker. The other Fifteen (15) Members-elect as declared by your commission were absent from the inauguration ceremony on the said date without any justification/excuse whatsoever. “We further have the understanding that on the 24th day of June, 2019,OJIEZELE, Osezua, Esan South East and OKODUWA, Emma Ewah, EsanNorth East II while on the 3rd day of July, 2019 AGBAJE, Emmanuel Omoladun, Akoko Edo II presented themselves for inauguration and Oath of Membership/Allegiance was accordingly administered to them. Putting the numbers of Members-elect who refused/neglected to be inaugurated or subscribe to Oath of Membership/Allegiance at Twelve (12).” The PDP further argued in the letter that, an action was instituted in the Federal High Court of Nigeria, Port Harcourt Judicial Division in suit No. FCH/PH/CS/159/19 by the Deputy Speaker of the House, Edo State House and Henry Okhuarobo, member, representing Ikpoba Okha Constituency via an originating summons filed on the 25th day of July, 2019, with judgment delivered in favour of the Plaintiffs on the 12th day of September, 2019 by Justice J.K. Omotosho, wherein the court held amongst others, that the proclamation issued by Obaseki on the 14th of June, 2019 was valid and remain so until its expiration. The party said it was of the belief that notice of the votes and proceeding of the Edo State House of Assembly sitting of 4th December, 2019 have been communicated to INEC, adding that, “However, for the purpose of emphasis may we humbly restates that the Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, in exercise of the power confirmed on him by the provisions of Section 109 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) declared two (2) seats of Members who took the Oath of Membership/Allegiance and later abdicated their seat without any lawful and justifiable cause vacant. “In the same vein, he also declared that, Twelve (12) Constituency seats are vacant as members-elect have refused/neglected to present themselves for inauguration and the subscription of Oath of Membership/Allegiance, the House having sat for the First Session and First Quarters without them and call for a bye election in the affected Constituencies. In the circumstance, the only inference that can be drawn from their action/inaction in this regard is that they have abdicated their mandates WITHOUT JUST CAUSE.” While declaring the stand and demand of his clients on the seats that have been declared by the Speaker, Adindu said, “That the refusal/neglect by members-elect to subscribe to the Oath of Membership/Allegiance with respect to the affected constituencies throughout the First Session and First Quarters of the 7th Assembly of Edo State amounts to abdication of office. “That the appropriate thing the commission should do in the circumstance is to withdraw the affected members’ certificate of return having failed/neglected to seat in the House they were elected and their constituency having been declared vacant by the Speaker in exercise of his power as vested by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) by which act, the affected members-elect can no longer be inaugurated. “That sequel to the declavration of the affected Constituencies vacant by the Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, your commission should not in the interest of Justice and Equity, conduct any fresh elections into the affected constituencies as the affected Members-elect did not subscribed to the Oath of Membership/Allegiance and abdicated their responsibilities. As such, state resources should not be wasted in conducting fresh Elections where there are 1stRunners up in the concluded elections. “That certificate of return should be issued to our Clients as the 1stRunner up in their various Constituencies, since the members-elect who abdicated their position did not subscribe to the Oath of Membership/Allegiance before their Constituencies were declared vacant by the Speaker in the interest of Justice and Equity. “That we most humbly implore you to liken this case to that of Musa Yar’adua and Goodluck Jonathan. Since there is a lacuna in the Constitution, as to what is to be resorted to, when a person having been declared a winner in an election but failed/neglected to subscribe to the Oath of Membership/Allegiance and consequence upon which, his seat/constituency declared vacant by the Speaker, the Doctrine of Necessity should be invoked to issue certificate of return to the 1st Runner up in the election in order to save their constituencies from undue suffering and neglect having performed their civic responsibility of voting only to be denied the dividend of democracy.”