NNEWI – As political parties in Anambra State begin search for candidates in preparations for 2021 governorship election in the state, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said APGA, the ruling party in state would likely not return to the Government House, Awka, after the 2021 election.
Ikechukwu Emenike, the PDP youth leader for Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State, disclosed this in an interview with select journalists in Nnewi yesterday.
Emenike said that APGA would not return to the Government House because of the performance of the party, which according to him, has been below expectation of the citizenry, adding that there has been infrastructure decay, among other things, which the party through Governor Willie Obiano has not been able to fix.
The PDP youth leader said the All Progressives Congress (APC) was another frontline party that would not produce a candidate that would win 2021 governorship election in Anambra State given the party’s low performance at the national level.
He said the APC alleged non-fullfilment of its campaign promises, bad leadership style, continued existence of Boko Haram and continued detention of Leah Sharibu by Boko Haram, an issue the APC led Federal Government appeared to have forgotten, among others would mar chances of the party producing a governor the state.
Emenike who is the Anambra South Zone Chairman of Anambra State Equity Alliance (ANSEA) , an NGO canvassing support for production of governor of Anambra State from Anambra South Zone of the state noted that given the weaknesses of APGA and APC, ANSEA and the youths of the state would support any creditable candidates from Anambra South Zone sponsored by other strong political parties.
“APGA and APC have the problem of non-performance . So the two political parties cannot make it to the government house. They have performed below the expectation of the people. APGA in the state and APC at the National Level have failed.
So ANSEA and the youths will support any candidate from Anambra South by other parties,” Emenike said.