Nsikak Ekanem, JIDE OYEKUNLE  & EJIKEME OMENAZU Paul Usoro (SAN), the president of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, on Friday said the Department of State Security, DSS, owes Nigeria apology for what he described as “desecration” of judiciary by officials of the security agency. Usoro, who made the comment while featuring at Channels television news bulletin at 10 pm at the weekend, was reacting to Gestapo-like manner that some DSS personnel stormed court room of Abuja division of Federal High Court to arrest Omoyele Sowore, convener of RevolutionNow Movement, and his fellow activist, Olaware Bakare. Sowore and Bakare, who are facing charges of treasonable felony brought against them by the federal government, had been in detention for 124 days before they were released on Thursday. Curiously, less than 24 hours after they regained freedom DSS personnel invaded the court room to re-arrest the two defendants. The scene in the court room presided over by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, as shown on video footage, which has gone viral, was reminiscence of a typical Nigerian motor-park brawl, as DSS officials met stiff resistance from supporters of the activists in their attempt to whisk Sowore and Bakare from the court room shortly after the judge had adjourned the matter to February 11 next year. Thereafter, Sowore and Bakare were detained after visiting DSS office in company with their lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) Usoro said: “Going into a court room to effect an arrest is horrible. I believe that the Nigerian nation deserves an apology from the DSS for what they have done today (Friday) in court.” He also described the incident, which he said he has never heard of elsewhere, as “horrible” and “actually an embarrassment to us as a nation.” Further, bemoaning the situation with some sort of self-pity on what he perceived befalls Nigerian nationals collectively, the NBA president sarcastically lamented: “… and we count ourselves as civilized nation, we consider ourselves to be in a country that is governed by laws; we consider ourselves to be guided by the rule of law.” Describing the invasion of the court room by the DSS officials as “a complete reversal of what the rule of law stands for”, Usoro said it makes a statement that “might is strength” and that once one is licensed with might and force “anything absolutely” could be done in Nigeria. Expatiating on consequences of disregard for the rule of law by a constituted authority, Usoro added: “It erodes moral authority to enforce orders – not just court orders; I am talking about enforcing orders generally. Meanwhile,  the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has called for the arrest and prosecution of all the security operatives who invaded and desecrated hallowed chambers of the Federal High Court, Abuja on Friday for contempt. The commission made this known in a statement issued on Saturday in Abuja while reacting to the attempt by the operatives of DSS to arrest Omoyele Sowore in the court room. Also, the International Human Rights Committee (IHRC), Geneva, Switzerland (Nigeria Committee), in its reaction to the development, frowned at what it termed violence by the state against Nigerian citizens. NHRC said: “The National Human Rights Commission has watched with dismay the conduct of law enforcement officers in facie curie yesterday (Friday) December 6, 2019 at the Federal High Court, Abuja. “The commission directs all the relevant agencies of government to arrest and try all law enforcement officers involved in the desecration of the hallowed chambers of the federal high court Abuja on Friday  December 6 2019 for contempt in the face of the court.” The commission reiterated the need for law enforcement officials to understand that to qualify as law enforcement agents, the must first of all be law abiding and not be above the law, stressing that as officials paid with tax payers’ money, there should be no room for impunity and utter disregard for the constitution. The IHRC, in its statement made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT on Satuday, maintained that the gory picture of security operatives forcefully abducting Omoyele Sowore on Friday in the full glare of a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja with a presiding judge on seat was gross violation of his fundamental human rights. The statement, signed by Dr Kenneth Anozie, IHRC Nigeria Committee spokesman, stressed that the action of the operatives of the Department of State Service (DSS) amounted to descent into anarchy, fascism and grossly violated all known fundamentals of democratic tenets. The IHRC said: “It is not just about the person of Sowore, but this is a national disgrace by a government which conducts have been severely criticised by all known democratic organs and institutions, both locally and internationally. “This a blur in the in the democratic efforts achieved in the past 16 years, but especially in the past six years before the Buhari/APC regime came into power. “We, as a human rights organisation, will not fold our hands and watch Nigeria, which is a signatory to the International Human Rights Commission Charter, and a member of the United Nations subject her law abiding citizens into such violence and gross violation of their fundamental human rights. “The Nigeria Committee of IHRC, Geneva, is in touch with our international headquarters on these issues and soon, we shall take it up so that such incidences of state sponsored violence against her citizens will be abrogated and confined in the dustbin of history.”