Lagos – Following a publication that over 100 fake professors exist in the Nigerian university system, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, the Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos (UNILAG), has declared that no fake professor was on its campuses. The Vice-Chancellor made the declaration during a media parley with journalists at the Senate Chamber where he delivered a review of activities for the year tagged: “Report from the Vice-Chancellor”. The VC said the system does not give room for the infiltration of people of questionable characters, saying that apart from the stringent processes of ascertaining the background of lecturers employed to teach in the university “we all know ourselves” Speaking further on the successes recorded by the institution within the last year, he revealed: “The ultimate agenda of the University under my watch is to become one of the global best. “This is aimed at getting the University ranked as one of the best four in Africa and indeed the best in Nigeria by 2022. Earlier this year, uniRank placed the University of Lagos as 1st in Nigeria and 12th in Africa, in September, the Times Higher Education (THE), one of the foremost University Ranking bodies, placed the University of Lagos in 801 – 1000 group. This is the first time the University of Lagos is appearing on the ranking list of Times Higher Education.” He added, “This is work in progress for us, we are optimistic that the next ranking will see us go further up as necessary mechanism are being put in place for this purpose”. On the recent sex-for-mark video and alleged involvement of two lecturers at the university, Ogundipe reaffirmed the determination of the management to implement the report of the Administrative Panel set up by the university authorities on the widely publicized scandal, saying that if found culpable the offenders will face the music as stipulated by the extant law of the university. “The university runs on a process and this must be followed in order not to run foul of the process. When the matter came up, we set up a fact-finding panel and we immediately queried and suspended the lecturers. “As the law stipulates, we thereafter set up an Administrative Panel for which its recommendations would be presented to the Governing Council. But, I want to assure you that the management will not cover up any part of the report. “The whole world is watching us and if the lecturers are culpable of the offence they will face the punishment according to the law of the university.” The VC said in 2019 alone, the institution produced 100 PhDs, received $11 million World Bank research grants last month, attracted five Centres of Excellence within the last two years, and equally attracted equipment from various organizations, among other inspiring achievements during the period under review.