Calabar – The age long crisis between Usumutong, Ebijakara, and Ebom communities in Abi Local Government Area of Cross River State has resurfaced, leaving many people dead while property worth several millions of naira was destroyed, according to an eyewitness. Confirming the report, the paramount ruler of Abi Local Government Area, His Royal Majesty, Solomon Osim Edward, said the incident occurred just as he returned from a meeting of traditional rulers in Abuja to his village in Usumutong. In a telephone interview, Solomon Edward revealed that the spate of destructions were frightening and needed to be controlled. He called on the state government to, as a matter of priority, endeavour to ensure the return of Ebijakara people to their ancestral home where they were sacked by the people of Ebom community in 2005. He explained: “I was away from the community for over a week for a meeting of the National Council of Paramount Rulers in Abuja, but on return what I found out is the urge by the people of Ebijakara to wreturn to their ancestral home. “Since they were sacked from their ancestral home 13 years ago, they have been staying in neighbouring communities but the majority are staying in Usumutong. “The people of Ebom who had issues with them have not been comfortable with them around and had attacked Usumutong community last year where my house was completely razed down. “Now the people of Ebijakara want to go back to their home and I believe the government should do something in that direction to bring the crisis to an end.” He added: “I was able to meet with the state governor on the issue since I was personally affected last year, with my house razed down. “During the pre-2019 elections campaign, the governor promised to address the situation and even build a new palace for me but nothing has been done since then.” He expressed sadness over the renewed clash and appealed to the state government to come to the aid of his communities. He called on the elites in the affected communities to rise and work for the return of peace in their communities. The recent skirmishes reportedly broke out in the early hours of Thursday at about 5am, and many lives have allegedly been lost while several houses have been razed down. Sources close to the area said “heavy and sophisticated weapons were used by both sides in the fight which inflicted several damages and carnage”. They also alleged that the current clash may not be unconnected with the age long clashes years back when the people of Ebijakara, an aggrieved community was sacked by their Ebom neighbours. “The attack back then was launched by Ebijakara people but Ebom people overpowered them. Thirteen years after, they are engaging themselves again. “Unless the government takes the initiative of resettling these people, it will be difficult to end these recurring conflicts in the area,” a source said. Confirming the story, the Cross River State Police Commissioner, Nkereuwem Akpan, said security reinforcement had been dispatched to contain the clashes in the affected communities.