LAGOS – Nigerian heavyweight boxer, Efe Ajagba will put his unbeaten record at stake this Saturday against Lago Kiladze of Georgia at Toyota Arena, Ontario, California, USA. The highly-promising Ajagba will enter the ring with strong hope of another victory, which would help him consolidate on his march towards the world heavyweight title, and equally create another mark for the sands of time. Standing at an awesome six feet-six inches, ‘The One and Only,’ as Ajagba will aim to make the best of his reach of 85 inches (216 cm) in his 12th bout since turning professional, even as he wants to get a smoother finish than he had in his last bout against Ali Eren Demirezen of Turkey on July 20, when he was declared winner by unanimous points’ decision. “I am very ready for this fight. I pulled out of my last bout because of a back injury and before then I defeated Demirezen through unanimous decision but this time, it will be a knockout out. “He is a good boxer if you look at his record he started very well and he is definitely more experienced than I am but I am more determined. He has not won in his last five, four fights, I want to ensure I add another loss to his record,” said Ajagba. However, fight expert are quick to warn Ajagba that he will not find it easy against 33-year-old Kiladze, who stands at 6 3 1/2, with a reach of 79 inches, and will be looking forward to his first win since November 2017. The former World Boxing Association (WBA) Inter- Continental cruiserweight champ, though, has lost four of his professional fights and has not won any of his last four fights going into his clash, but he has a strong scorecard of 26 wins, 18 via knockouts. Before this weekend’s clash with 25-year-old Ajagba, Kiladze fought to a draw in his last fight, as he toiled against unbeaten Robert Alfonso in May, before which he lost all three fights in 2018, suffering knockouts in all of them. Ajagba has had 11 fights winning all with nine by knockouts; one by decision and one by disqualification going into this fight. Coached by Anthony Konyegwachie, Ajagba took up boxing in 2011 after previously playing football for a club in Ughelli since 2005. He was selected to compete for the Team Nigerian at the 2014 Commonwealth Games held in Glasgow. Competing in the super heavyweight division he defeated Junior Fa of Tonga in the round of 16 and Paul Schafer of South Africa in the quarterfinals. He advanced to the semifinals where he was defeated by Joseph Goodall of Australia, meaning Ajagba won a bronze medal. At the 2015 African Games held in Brazzaville, Republic of the Congo, Ajagba was selected as the Nigerian entrant in the men’s super-heavyweight event. He won the gold medal, beating Keddy Angnes of the Seychelles by a score 3–0 in the final. In 2016 he won the gold medal in the super heavyweight event at the African Boxing Olympic Qualification Tournament held in Yaoundé, Cameroon. By doing so Ajagba qualified to represent Team Nigeria at the 2016 Summer Olympics to be held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In the first round Ajagba beat Ugandan Michael Sekamembe on points, he defeated Tunisian boxer Aymen Trabelsi in the semifinal to secure his qualification, then in the final he beat Mohamed Arjaoui of Morocco. Ajagba was the only Nigerian boxer of the 10 who competed to qualify for Rio Olympics through the tournament, leading to claims from Nigeria’s coach Konyegwachie that judges had been bribed. On August 24, 2018, Ajagba scored the fastest victory in boxing history in a match against Curtis Harper, winning via a one-second disqualification after Harper walked out of the ring in protest over a pay dispute.