ABUJA – Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology, has called for review of school curricula at all levels of education that would equip students with requisite skills which would make them problem-solvers in the society. Onu stated this at the weekend when a delegation from the Nigerian Institute of Food Science and Technology paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja. He noted that problem-solving skills developed by students at their early stages in life would help tremendously to solve plethora of problem confronting the nation. He pointed out that no single discipline offered in schools would address the myriads of problems facing the country. According to him, “Nigeria is in a transition. We are moving from away from our economy depending on commodity to our economy depending on knowledge and innovation driven. “It is a very important transition. It is not an easy one. It takes a lot of time. We need to make sure that curricula in our schools at all levels are reviewed, so that we can produce students who are problem-solvers and team workers. “This is because innovation and research will require skills of problem –solving and team work. Now, knowledge is such that no single discipline can solve the problems of society. “Nigeria is in a hurry to develop and catch up with other developed countries in the world. It is important that these problem-solving skills are developed at the early stages of life, so that when they come out of school, the students will be creative and innovative in the society. Earlier, Mr. Oluwole Toye, President of Nigerian Institute of Food Science and Technology, thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for signing into law Nigerian Council of Food Science and Allied Matters Bill in October 2019. Toye said the Institute was set up to harness the abundance of talents and knowledge of food professionals to achieve food security and safety. He sought the approval from the minister on the setting up of the committee that would interface with the Institute in the implementation of the new Act, as well as constitution and inauguration of the Institute’s Governing Council in line with the provision of the law.