Benin – The management of Okomu Oil Palm Company PLC has vowed to continue to discharge its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to the hosts Communities as well as to continue to maintain its policies of Do No Harm to the the environment it operates. Mr. Arnaud Arhainx, the Financial Director of the company made the vow during an interactive session with representatives of the hosts Communities and presentation of bursary award to no fewer than 37 Students from the 17 hosts Communities. Arhainx said the company was collaborating with Market Development for the Niger Delta (MADE) to work with the local farmers in the hosts’ communities to increase their income generated by the Oil Palm Smallholders. According to him, Market Development for the Niger Delta (MADE) is a DFID funded market development programme that seeks to generate pro-poor and inclusive economic growth in the non-oil sectors of the Niger Delta. “MADE in conjunction with Okomu Oil Palm Company aimed at promoting livelihood in Niger Delta through promotion of sustainable oil palm production and marketing to increase income generated by the Oil Palm Smallholders. To achieve this, we need your support and cooperation by supplying all the information needed in a questionnaire form that will be given to them with a heading, ‘Mapping of oil Palm Producing Communities Within 30-50 Km from Okomu Oil Palm Company PLC’ Arhainx told the communities. Okomu Oil Palm financial director said the company will continue to encourage the hosts Communities by engaging them in dialogue that would promote peaceful coexistence and harmony between the two parties. Community engagement, he said provides a a roadmap on how to design a framework that will promote corporate social responsibility, adding that this will also enhanced transparency and accountability in the management of projects that would enforce trust between the community and the company. Dr. Kingsley Erinmwionghae in a lecture at the session, titled “ Community/Company Synergy: A Recipe For Progress” said the Nigeria economy was facing recession with negative implication on all sectors, including palm oil industry. He noted that growth in the non-oil sector was largely driven by the activities of agriculture which include crop production, ICT and other services. Therefore, doing business in Nigeria is increasingly facing challenges due to scarcity of foreign exchange and harsh economy climate. Erinmwionghae also disclosed that the United Nations Global Compact and roundtable on sustainable palm oil (RSPO) provides opportunities to strengthen weak local regulations. Both initiatives have helped to raise the profile of corporate social responsibility issues, policies and activities internationally. He pointed out however, that roundtable on sustainable palm oil was formed in 2004 to promote the use of sustainable palm oil through credible global standards and engagement of stakeholders.