In line withthe focus of the federal government of Nigeria to diversify, strengthen theeconomy and create jobs through profitable agricultural practices, the CentralBank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele said Ogun state governmenthas been proactive by taking the lead in the entire South West. Emefielestated this at the apex bank’s meeting with agriculture stakeholders in Lagosat the weekend. He promisedto use Ogun state as a model for economic growth in the entire South Westregion because of its innovation in agriculture entrepreneurship. The CBN bosssaid the State has ventured into agriculture in a big way through itssubscription to the apex bank’s Anchor Borrower Scheme. By tappinginto this scheme, Emefiele said, Ogun would soon cause a surge in urban ruralmigration “because more young people would find it more rewarding to leavethe congested cities for a good life occasioned by profitable agribusiness inthe remote areas”. Speaking onbehalf of the Ogun State Governor, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry ofAgriculture and Natural Resources, Mrs. Adenike Ogunleye thanked the CBN Governorand expressed the readiness of the state government to take the bull by thehorns. She emphasizedthat Ogun being the state with the largest concentration of Cassava processorsin the country would take advantage of the derivatives of cassava to cause aneconomic turnaround for the state and the country. Relying onthe high demand for cassava derivatives like ethanol, starch, cassava chips andglue for plywood by companies like Nestlé, Unilever, Dangote factory andpharmaceutical companies, Ogunleye said an unprecedented economic growth isunderway in the State. Having launched its Anchor Borrower Programme in August, the Permanent Secretaryhinted that the state “insists on best agronomy practices as well astraining and strengthening the farmers, providing land, monitoring theiractivities while linking farmers with relevant markets for their return oninvestments”. The CBN management,however, demanded that the Ogun team turn in their work plan, account numbersof farmers, location of mapped land and available processors in no distanttime. The CBNcontended that the revolution witnessed in rice could be replicated in cassavaas the demand for cassava derivatives had become high. At themeeting were the representatives of IITA, foreign investors, representatives ofOgun and Lagos state governments, president and executive members of Cassava GrowersAssociation, chairman of All Farmers Association in Ogun state and the CBNmanagement team.