ADO-EKITI – Worried by the outrageous fees charged by the management of Nigerian universities, the National Association of Universities’ Students (NAUS) has threatened to disrupt normal academic activities on campuses. The students warned the management of universities to stop putting the burden of underfunding by governments on students, saying that right to education is a sacrosanct obligation of governments to every citizen of any nation. The students called for immediate reduction in the increased acceptance and tuition fees payable in universities to avert confrontation with the entire students’ body across the nation. In a statement in Ado Ekiti on Monday, NAUS National Vice President, Southwest, Aridiogo David Aruson, said there might be a nationwide protest in all universities that decided to put heavy financial burdens on students through obnoxious fees. Aridiogo said it was pathetic that universities’ management hide under the facade of underfunding to introduce all manners of fees that can deprive children of the poor the required education. “To mention but a few, the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti(FUOYE) has got involved in this sad development with acceptance fee increasing from N40,000 to N50,000 and also increased an alien medical fee from N5,000 to N10,000 as well as introduced N1,000 as stamp fee for school fee receipt. “Also in Ekiti State University, acceptance fee has increased from N70,000 to N100,000. The medical and law students are to pay a sum of N150,000 respectively. “Beyond governmental inefficiency, the management of various universities in the country, most especially in Ekiti State, are involved a rise in evil activities with the introduction of levies and fees that are far outside their scope all in the name of sourcing for funds despite the fact that it is expected of government to fund universities. “We condemn in totality these trends in our universities and we demand the abolition of alien fees in our universities, proper funding of the education sector by the governments, democratisation of university administration and reversal of the increment in school fees in our universities”, he said.