Success is an ultimate goal. Every human being wants to succeed. A married man or woman wants to succeed in his or her marital life. A Priest or a religious wants to succeed in his vocation. The politicians want to succeed in their political mandate. Even our traditional rulers, especially the serious minded ones, would want to succeed in their reign either as kings or chiefs. Above all, success is the ultimate goal of every student. It is the best thing you can wish any student you cherish. Every business man or woman wants to record success in his or her business. Yes, he wants to be a successful businessman! Now, Since success is our ultimate goal the question we want to consider in our reflection today is how can we attain this success. How can one become successful in his or her business? How can one become successful in his or her political carrier? How can we become successful in our vocation? How can we become successful in our quest for justice? How can we become successful in our fight against insecurity and insurgencies? Hence, what is the secret of success? One of the reasons why we are not succeeding is because we are looking for success in the wrong direction and from the wrong people. Ask yourself, with all the power, the money and even the influence in the possession of your political leaders have they succeeded in solving the problem of insecurity? Has any government in the world even the United Nations, all put together, has any succeeded in solving the problem of poverty in the world? What of the problem of immigrants, refugees and Xenophobia, not to talk of racism? Another reason why we are not succeeding is because we are relying so much on human reason, human weapon, human resources and even human ability. Whereas our Lord Jesus Christ told his followers, “without Me you can do nothing” (John 15:5). I may be sounding so religious but that is the gospel truth. Without Jesus Christ we will never succeed. Why Jesus? What is special about Jesus? What has Jesus to do with our success? How can we succeed through Christ? By the way one of the interesting slogans of the Catholic Women Organization is “Through our Mother Mary – We Succeed!” In this case, through our Lord Jesus Christ, our success is guaranteed! The most inspirational passage in the bible is taken from the gospel of John 16:33 where our Lord Jesus Christ assured his followers, saying, “These things I have spoken to you, that in Me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.”  For me, this is the most inspirational and most successful statement in the world. Jesus did not say, “…I will overcome the world” He did not say “…I will succeed” But “I have overcome the world.” In order words, I have succeeded!” Before the coming of Christ there were so many freedom fighters, so many world religious leaders. Most of them are dead and are even rotten in their graves. None of them promised his followers that he will rise again. Because they don’t have the power of resurrection.  In the case of Jesus Christ, he was the first and only Messiah to promise his fellow Jews that after death He will surely rise again. In the gospel of Luke 9:22 our Lord Jesus Christ assured his followers, “The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, but three days later he will be raised to life.” That was exactly what happened! He was not just rejected, he was crucified and even buried. Three days later God not only raised him to life, But as St. Paul rightly wrote in his letter to the Philippians 2:9-11, God also highly exalted Him and gave Him the name which is above every name, 10 that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, 11 and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.” Mission accomplished! This is what success is all about! With this, you can agree with me that our Lord Jesus Christ is the most Successful Man the world has ever known. He is Greater than the greatest, Stronger than the strongest, Holier than the holiest and Mightier than the mightiest. He is a Triumphant King.  A Victorious Saviour and a glorious Messiah. To Him be glory and praise both now and forevermore – Amen! Now, let’s look at success from female point of view. A lady or if you like, a virgin, was told in the gospel of Luke 1:26-38, that she was going to give birth to a child without meeting any man. Biologically and in fact, humanly speaking, it is impossible. The lady herself raised an important question, “How can this be, since I do not know a man?” This beat her imagination! The angel answered and said to her, Don’t worry! “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Highest will overshadow you; therefore, also, that Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God. 36 Now indeed, Elizabeth your relative has also conceived a son in her old age; and this is now the sixth month for her who was called barren. 37 For with God nothing will be impossible.” This is the secret of your success – With God…! With God all things, including your success, is possible. With God, your breakthrough is possible. With God, your admission is possible. With God, your victory in the coming election is possible. With God, Success in your marital life is possible. With God, success in your vocational life is possible. With God, your freedom and your independence is possible. With God, divine connection is possible. With God, your job opportunity is possible. With God, your promotion is possible. With God, your business breakthrough is possible! With victory God against insecurity and insurgencies is possible. With God, your health of mind and body is possible. With God, your inner peace and inner healing is possible. With God, whatever you are looking for that is to your favour, the good of humanity and the glory of God – is possible. Mary was the Most Successful woman the world has ever known. She was not the richest woman on earth. She was not the strongest woman. She was not the tallest woman on earth. She was not from a royal family. She was not a woman-leader or if you like, a politician. She was not even a religious woman. But she was the most fulfilled and indeed the most successful woman the world has ever known. In her Triumphant song or what people call her magnificat, She expressed her joy and her victory over failure, setback and disappointment: “ “My soul magnifies the Lord, 47 And my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. 48 For He has regarded the lowly state of His maidservant; For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. 49 For He who is mighty has done great things for me, And holy is His name.” This is amazing! It is a song of a successful woman. a song of a victorious woman. A song which every woman or lady of goodwill will surely sing. I see you singing this song of victory. If you remain focus and connected to God, you will succeed and you will surely sing your own magnificent in Jesus name – Amen! Apart from Jesus and Mary you are the next successful man or woman. What then is the secret of your success! How can you attain your own success? Remember, what the angel told Mary, “The Holy Spirit will come upon you and the power of the Most High God will overshadow you.” You need the Holy Spirit for your success! Our Lord Jesus Christ succeeded because the Holy Spirit anointed Him for success. Mary succeeded because the Holy Spirit came upon Her (Luke 1:37); the apostles succeeded because on the day of Pentecost they were all filled with the Holy Spirit (Acts 2:1-4). Child of God, with the Holy Spirit, you will surely succeed, you will be victorious, You will be triumphant, You will be divinely connected, You will be successful and indeed it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!