Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje bags a prestigious Award of Excellence, from Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), at the National Executive Council meeting, tagged “Kano 2019” as an achiever in the overall health sector, who agrees to enlist the sector among key top most priority areas of his administration.
In a statement signed by Abba Anwar, Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, the NMA president, Dr. Francis Faduyile expressed gratitude over the immeasurable intervention of the governor on all sectors of the economy.
“Permit me to congratulate Kano State for her various positive contributions to commerce and agriculture in the country over the years, and the contributions of His Excellency the Governor, for effective healthcare delivery in the state.”
The event took place at Marhaba Event Centre, Farm Centre, Kano, Friday. Dr Faduyile commended that, “In the same vein, I want congratulate the Governor of Kano State for winning second term in office and for appointing Four Medical Doctors in his cabinet as Commissioners. I believe our members will greatly contribute to the success of your tenure.”
Parts of the reasons for the special Award to the governor, include, according to NMA President, “His Excellency’s unflinching support and concern for the health care delivery system. Governor Ganduje’s special interest and the political will, towards archiving the set goals, are what make him to stand high among many.”
He further said, the Award given to the governor on behalf of the entire Medical and Dentistry professionals and their families, adding that “We all believe that His Excellency is doing everything possible to see that he takes heath care sector to the next level.”
He mentioned, as drivers, for the good, effective and efficient healthcare delivery system in the state, the 100 female Medical students that are about to come back home after successful studies abroad.
“This among other things, like your Ultra Modern Specialist Hospitals of Khalifa Isyaka Rabi’u Paediatric Hospital, Zoo road and Muhammadu Buhari Specialist Hospital, Giginyu, are areas that encourage us, that Kano’s achievements have come to stay,” he said.
Kano’s contributory health care scheme, increasing the budgetary provision of the health sector, training and retraining of health workers and employment opportunities created by Ganduje’s administration were some of the reasons advanced by the association, in considering him (Governor Ganduje) for the Award.
In his response, the governor appreciated the choice of Kano for the NEC meeting, assuring that the state contributory health care delivery scheme, is the strongest scheme in the country.
Adding that, “We are doing our best to strengthen our health care delivery system in the state. That is why we provided 16 percent of our budget to go to the healthcare sector.”
He said his administration builds good synergy between the health sector and development partners. “So far the state relates with 14 development partners, of health related interventions. And they are contributing to the health financing system, in many areas of consideration.”
He further reveals that, the state would organise Summit for Donors that relate with the state. To, according to him, assess what has been achieved and what are the areas of improvement, insisting that, “We thought we have to bridge the technology gap in the health sector.”