ABUJA – A non-governmental organization, Velma Foundation, has launched an action plain aimed at reducing the wave of cyber crime going on in the county. The scourge of cybercrime, according to the foundation, has diminished Nigeria’s reputation in the international community. David ‘Diya Ashaolu, Director and Project Manager, Velma Foundation, while addressing journalists at the weekend, proposed an alternative way that they believe would work in the war against cybercrime. “Today, we announce the launch of Velma Action to Reduce Cybercrimes (VELMA-ARC), a social integration programme for the rehabilitation of cybercriminals. “Velma-ARC targets individuals engaged in cybercrime activities who volunteer to desist from such activities and provide their expertise towards fighting cybercrimes in Nigeria. “Many vibrant and tech savvy youths caught in this web of cybercrime have expressed a desire to disengage and there is need for a strategic approach to ensure maximum impact,” Ashaolu explained. Flanked by Abiodun Oduwole, Director, and Joy Wonne lhuoma Project Coordinator, Velma Foundation, the group said their programme brings volunteers together for a period at a bootcamp where they rehabilitate them and enhance their IT skills for employability and positive contributions to the society. “The process will involve participation from stakeholders cutting across a wide range of specialists, including certified psychologists and law enforcement agencies. “To achieve the best results, the strategic intervention by Velma-ARC will be conducted in the following stages: pre-intervention stage; intervention bootcamp; post-intervention evaluation; and cybercrime intervention hub,” Ashaolu said. The pilot phase of the bootcamp would be held in llesa, Osun State, from January to February 2020. He said Velma-ARC is urging well-meaning Nigerians to support the project and ensure that its objectives are achieved. “If we rehabilitate one cybercriminal (or Yahoo boy), we have saved hundreds of potential victims. “We believe, therefore, that to stop the scourge, we have to plug the drain” Ashaolu said.