LAGOS – What really does Godswill Akpabio want, being a minister or a senator? Would he resign from the post of Minister of Niger Delta Affairs to contest for Akwa Ibom North West (Ikot Ekpene) senatorial seat, which has been declared vacant by Court of Appeal? What are his chances of winning with deficit of 38, 056 votes? The above questions come about following Court of Appeal judgment, Calabar division, which on November 9 that nullified the election of Chris Ekpenyong and ordered for fresh election within 90 days from the date of the judgement only in Essien Udim local government area to determine the winner between Akpabio of the All Progressive Party (APC), and Ekpenyong of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had earlier declared Ekpenyong winner of the February 23, 2019 National Assembly Elections. The court hinged its decision on irregularities perpetrated in the local government area. The senatorial district is made up of 10 local government areas. With the result upheld by the court from the nine local government areas, Ekpenyong won with wide gap in eight of the local government areas while Akpabio led with slim margin only in Ikot Ekpene local government area. Even so, with the situation at the moment, Akpabio still has a number factors standing in his favours, particularly regarding the rescheduled election in Essien Udim. As an indigene and registered voter in the local government area, home support could come naturally for him. To Akpabio’s advantage, Ekpenyong will not vote in the election, whereas Akpabio can first boast of his vote and that of his wife. Ekpenyong is from neighbouring Obot Akara local government area. Of utmost essence is the fact that Essien Udim has over 105, 555 registered voters, out of which about 95, 987 are said to have collected their permanent voter’s cards. Also, the local government area was given quantum leap of development, in terms of infrastructure and human capital development while Akpabio was the Akwa Ibom State governor for eight years. The expectation, therefore, is that, everything being equal, Akpabio stands a chance of thrashing his opponents, especially when such an opponent is outside the local government area. Akpabio is also known for not sparing expenses in any matter he is interested. He is reported as operating on self-enacted theory of “what money cannot do more money can do”. If this holds sway, coupled with money being a strong factor in politics, Akpabio may have it easier than the situation appears. While Akpabio’s chances of victory look brighter on the face of it, a scratch beyond the surface shows that there are other prevailing issues with potency of turning the table against the former senator. For instance, so many are of the view that a rerun election is usually marred by voters’ apathy, hence the doubt that over 60 percent of those with PVC might shun the election. Essien Nkanga, a former chairman of Uyo local government area, is of the belief that Essien Udim would hardly have up to 40, 000 voters participating in the election. He told Sunday Independent that “Election is seasonal and the spirit of election is always gone after the main election.” According to Nkanga, who is well grounded in grassroots politics since 1999, “the prevailing spirit now is on various election petitions pending in the law court.” He added that after the election petition matters might have been fully dispensed with “the principal actors on the losing sides would travel abroad and leave the followers with contemplation of either remaining in the party to lick their wounds or joining the ruling party for consolatory rewards.” On top of the fear of voters’ apathy, there is allegation, though mutely and informally, that the acclaimed voting strength of Essien Udim is populated more with ghost voters. Though the local government area is one of the largest in the state, some opinionated minds have it that the figures of voters in the locality witnessed uncommon rise under Akpabio’s leadership as a ploy by the “uncommon transformer” to maintain strong home-based lead on electoral competitions. The postulation, therefore, is that in a one-man-one-vote situation Essien Udim would hardly secure 50, 000 voters. At the general election, INEC had claimed that 19, 455 persons got the green light to vote through the smart card reader accreditation. Another factor that is readily available to trounce whatever is left of Akpabio’s apparent towering influence is the incontrovertible strong presence of PDP in all nooks and crannies in the state. A source from Ukana community in Essien Udim, where the former governor comes from told Sunday INDEPENDENT that APC is unheard of even in Akpabio’s village. The source said that following his defection from PDP to APC, Akpabio has lost political leadership of Ikot Ekpene constituency to Etido Inyang, who was one of the egg-heads in Akpabio’s governorship administration and currently chairman of Ibom Power. According to him, voters in Essien Udim would overwhelmingly tilt to Inyang’s direction. But another youth from Akpabio’s community said that Akpabio is better placed to win massively to the tune of 10, 000 votes in two wards – Ukana East and Ukana West. Advancing that PDP is still enjoying massive followership, the source, however, added that the former governor would be defeated in the rest of the other nine wards that make up the local government area. The sources, who preferred anonymity owing to their closeness to the Akpabio family, blamed the Niger Delta Affairs minister for leaving PDP without consulting major political stakeholders. It was also gathered that amidst perception that Governor Udom Emmanuel is performing below optimum expectation, Akpabio’s kinsmen, like some others outside the local government area, rather hold their kinsman blameworthy in that the former rode on the back of the latter to become governor. To worsen matters, following dwindling fortune of Nigeria’s national life in many endeavours, the alienation of the people of Akwa Ibom against APC is getting severe with the passage of the day, even to the extent that the personality of the candidate flying APC’s ticket is of mean meanings to the people. From the look of things, notwithstanding that the election will be held in one local government area, it would be the focus of the whole Akwa Ibom PDP just as the party is bent on whittling down the remnant influence of Akpabio in the state. With all eyes on Essien Udim on the election day, an eagle-eye watch would most likely be mounted on the election to checkmate irregularities. Even when room for malpractice is allowed, it could not be guaranteed that APC would have upper hand since both PDP and APC are not averse to perverting ballot results. Still, it is suspected that a convoluted conspiracy within the APC family against Akpabio is brewing. Given that the relationship between the minister and almost all top shots of APC in the state had once upon a time hit the rock, it is doubtful whether any of the APC bigwigs in the state is heartily disposed to Akpabio’s political ambition. In the same vein, there is assumption that the bond between the minister and other who’s who from the South-South in the party is fraught with mistrusts, hence apparent lack of cohesion and wholehearted disposition to Akpabio’s cause by the party. Another factor that may make mess of Akpabio’s home advantage is the fact that key political figures in his extended family, which has a dynasty status of a sort, have, since his defection from PDP to APC, become his immediate political adversaries. They include, among others, Emem Akpabio, a PDP chieftain, and Ukpong Akpabio, former personal assistant to Akpabio and now Commissioner for Trade and Investment in Akwa Ibom. With strong stake in the PDP, which often drives their determination to append bold signature for the party, they may be all out to thwart APC’s chances in the local government area. The antagonism against Akpabio from some top members of the APC and his extended family is steepening following suspicion that the minister’s initiative for forensic auditing of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, is majorly targeted against APC stakeholders from South-South and some members of the larger Akpabio family that might have fed fat from the NDDC’s contracts. The perception that the performance of the former Senate Minority Leader in the Senate between 2015 and 2019 was unimpressive in terms of advocacy in bettering the lot of the people may also count against Akpabio in the election. On the other hand, so many are of the view that his ministerial position may have direct bearings on the people than his senatorial job. There is also the thinking that the Annang part of Akwa Ibom that both Ekpenyong and Akpabio hail from are better off with the two of them respectively manning key offices in the national legislature and the federal executive. So, even Akpabio’s die-hard admirers may opt for maintenance of the status quo by voting against his return to the Senate. As to the question on whether Akpabio is under obligation of the law to resign or not before contesting the election, the views from those in the legal profession are as debatable as legal matters are often subjected to. Just as many are of the opinion that the former senator has to quit his ministerial job before flying the APC’s ticket in the supplementary election, so many others countered that Akpabio is bound by the law to resign before contesting the election. The bone of contention is situated on what entails one being categorized as a public officer. Eyibio Okon, legal practitioner and member of Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), is of the view that “Akpabio is not bound to resign his appointment; only public officers are expected to resign.” Eyibio, who is based in Uyo, premises his position on the following words: “Akpabio is a political appointee, whose employment is not defined by the public officers’ rule. This position has been confirmed recently by the Supreme Court in Segun Oni versus Kayode Fayemi, where the court stated clearly that ministers are not public officers by the contemplation of the Constitution and Public Officers Rule for purposes of resignation to contest election.” He added: “Akpabio is an appointee of the President. His services have no time frame. He is not entitled to pension or gratuity. If he is removed today, he has no power to challenge.” Eyibio concluded that one could only be called a public officer if his employment is “covered by Public Officers Act”. But, in telephone conversation with Sunday Independent, Ufok Ibekwe, an Abuja-based lawyer, whose activism is beamed more on Akwa Ibom, argued that “There is no existence precedence in Nigeria of a political appointee or a minister, for that matter, retaining his appointment while running election.” To buttress his point that a minister is a public officer, Ibekwe made reference to the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, which Nigerian public officers are subjected to. The Fifth Schedule dwells on “Code of Conduct for Public Officers”. Ibekwe, therefore queried: “If a minister is not a public officer why does he complies with the code of conduct for public officers?” Where then lies the mischief that the law sought to cure if a minister does not resign before contesting election? Referring to Oni versus Fayemi, he argued that the Supreme Court decision was dismissed on technicality as being status-barred since the matter was filed out of time, hence arguing that the matter of who is a public officer is not yet a settled law since the apex court did not decide on the substance of the matter. He further said that the matter between Oni and Fayemi was intra party matter in that the issue in contention was the Ekiti APC governorship primaries, which Fayemi contested while still serving as minister, and that the fact that Fayemi resigned 30 days before contesting the main governorship election validates the position that Akpabio must resign before contesting the rescheduled senatorial election in Essien Udim. According to Ibekwe, the matter between Oni and Fayemi, does not, therefore holds water. He described such position as “misconstrue and misrepresentation of the law”, maintaining that there is no law constitutionally and case-wise to support a serving minister running for elective office.” The issue of resignation, as it may concern Akpabio is located in Sections 66 (1) (f) and 107 (1) (f), which among others, stipulate grounds for disqualification of member of the National Assembly and House of Assembly respectively. It stated that “No person shall be qualified for election to the Senate or the House of Representatives if – he is a person employed in the public service of the Federation or any State and has not resigned, withdrawn or retired from such employment thirty days before the date of election.” The Akwa Ibom North West senatorial election has some similarities with that of Anambra Central in 2015, where Uche Ekwunife of PDP was earlier declared winner but the election was later upturned by the Court of Appeal. One of her opponents, Victor Umeh of APGA, had contested the result of the election in court. Chris Ngige of APC, who after losing the election was appointed minister by President Muhammadu Buhari, had declined to join in the fresh election ordered by the court, citing that he was more committed to the ministerial job. To worsen matters for APC, the court barred the party from fielding any candidate except Ngige. Ekwunife, who had defected to APC with the hope of flying the party’s ticket, therefore lost from the starting line. That eventually left Umeh to contest with feather weight politicians, thereby easing Umeh’s election into the Senate. Meanwhile, the Akwa Ibom State chapter of PDP shortly after the judgement was delivered expressed readiness to tackle APC in the National Assembly election. A statement issued by the party’s spokesman, Ini Ememobong, have this to say: “We welcome the judgement of the Court and hereby indicate our preparedness for elections, as this will provide an opportunity for us to widen the margin of victory against Senator Akpabio and the APC. We are expectant that the Senator will very soon tender his resignation from his ministerial office to meet us in the campaign field, as the law demands.” The PDP noted that the Court of Appeal “judgement acknowledges the widespread irregularities that occurred in Essien Udim local government Area, which were noted and highlighted in different reports from observers. Everyone will recall that the results from Essien Udim local government area was delayed for more than five hours after all other results had been turned in and collated. We recall further that Senator Akpabio and his APC supporters had taken over the INEC office at Essien Udim, chased out everyone, held the INEC staff hostage and falsified election results. The court judgement in nullifying the elections there, simply confirms the reality.” Ememobong further write off Akpabio: “Chief Godswill Akpabio and the APC should be thoroughly ashamed that they are seeking to use the result of one local government area to lead people in eight other local government areas where they were overwhelmingly rejected and which they have not questioned – assuming that Chief Akpabio was successful in sneaking the figures from Essien Udim, how moral would such a victory be? Was he contesting to be Chairman of Essien Udim?” However, APC Publicity Secretary in Akwa Ibom, Nkereuwem Nyongekere, said that the ruling showed that  “truth was hurriedly murdered and buried by the tribunal in Akwa Ibom.” He added: “The Court of Appeal sitting at Calabar in Cross River State in its ruling has nullified the election of Dr. Christopher Ekpenyong, who was wrongly declared the winner of the National Assembly election in Akwa Ibom  North West Senatorial District on February 23, 2019. “The ruling in its entirety is a testament that will open up the eye of the world to the misappropriation of justice meted out to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State by the National Election Tribunal at Uyo in collusion with unprogressive forces in the PDP and INEC in Akwa Ibom State.” Citing alleged biases for PDP in the state, the state chapter of APC is, however, demanding the deployment of Akwa Ibom State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mike Igini, maintaining that the party may have no option but to boycott the election if Igini is allowed to preside over the conduct of the election. Speaking with Sunday Independent on phone, Enyongekere said that APC chances of defeating PDP “is very positive provided Igini is deployed from the state. Also speaking with this repoter, Chris Akpan, who was the Director General for Akpabio campaign organization in the last general election, was also optimistic of victory only on the condition that Igini should not take charge of the election. Really, attempts at providing thorough answers to the aforementioned questions tend to situate Akpabio and the APC at crossroads. Any route taken would, at best case scenario, leads him to losing at least on one score, and, at worst case scenario, which looks quite possible, losing on all fronts. Dissecting the questions for answers rather prop up more questions: Would Akpabio back out from the election? If he throws in the towel, would that not amount to accepting defeat, thereby discrediting his self-asserted position of infallibility in election? In event of contesting the election without resigning, would he dump the ministerial job if he wins? If he resigns, would the Ministry of Niger Delta remains vacant till the election is over? In event of losing the election, if he resigns, would he be reappointed? As things stand at the moment, Ekpenyong is availed of chances of convincingly consolidating his victory while Akpabio is provided with another opportunity to prove whether he can fail election or not. Depending on how the pros and cons are managed by the opposing camps, victory could swing either way. Be that as it may, except a millennial magic of a sort occurs, anyone could safely predict that the Court of Appeal Judgement and the subsequent reschedule election, which date is yet to be fixed, between PDP and APC in Essien Udim local government area, is a victory postponed for Ekpenyon and defeat delayed and rescheduled for Akpabio.