ABUJA – The House of Representatives has commenced the process of altering the constitution to prevent the Judiciary from unduly interfering in the functions of the National Assembly. The amendment bill cosponsored by the House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, seeks to alter the constitution with a view to clearly providing for utmost respect for the principle of separation of powers among the three arms of government. It is titled: ‘A Bill for an Act to Alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) to Strengthen the Principle of Separation of Powers and Guarantee the Independence of Different Arms of Government; and for Related Matters (HB. 440)’. The speaker, who presided of over the plenary where the general principles of the bill were debated, expressed serious disappointment in recent court pronouncements barring the National Assembly from exercising its constitutional powers on matters involving State Assemblies and other agencies of government. He cited the cases in Edo and Bauchi states where the National Assembly intervened in the legislative crisis orchestrated by the executive arms of both state, and the court was used to stop the National Assembly from performing its constitutional duty of taking over the functions of those state Houses of Assemblies. He said: “What we want to use this amendment bill to cure is the trend of one arm of government using another arm to suppress the powers of another arm of government which has equal constitutional powers as both arms. “It’s like the National Assembly stopping the president from presenting the budget, or the president preventing the National Assembly from sitting. “In legislative parlance, there is what we call ouster clause, which is essentially used to remove or bar a given entity from taken a certain cause of action or from even becoming at all. “And there is no way the court will accept the application of ouster clause by the legislature on its constitutional duties without resisting it, and I see no reason why the court should apply the same ouster clause on the legislature at the instance of the executive arm, this time at state level. “So, we are not going to sit and fold our arms and allow the judiciary to be used to trample upon the powers and independence of the legislature, and I hope that this amendment will take care of that,” the speaker stated. Asked in her contribution by Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, as to whether the House could actually bar the courts from making pronouncements on matters brought before them, Gbajabiamila argued that the court’s role should have come in if the House acts in error in to process of performing functions of a state House of Assembly. “There’s something called the doctrine of rightness which means that the Court cannot look into the function of the House even before the House performs such a function.”