LAGOS – Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), has berated those criticising President Muhammadu Buhari’s $30 billion loan request, accusing them of ignorance. Speaking in a chat with Daily Independent, Sagay said those claiming that in less than five years, President Buhari has borrowed more than his predecessors combined since 1999 are hypocrites who failed to match the loans with massive projects on ground. He argued that since taking over in 2015, President Buhari has carried out more projects than former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, late Umaru Yar’adua and Goodluck Jonathan. “I will say that he has effected and carried out more projects than Obasanjo, Yar’Adua and Jonathan. You do not achieve all these feats by air. It is money that is used”. Sagay said what Nigerians should bother themselves with is what the government is using the loans for and how it will be repaid back to the lenders. “I think people criticising the loan request are ignorant because a loan by itself is not bad, it is what you do with the loan that matters. If you look at what this administration has been doing with the loans, you will marvel and give them commendations. “They have been building railways and building roads and major bridges like Second Niger bridge. These are major infrastructural developments which in itself will pay back the loans. Look at the Kaduna- Abuja rail which is attracting so many passengers that there are not enough coaches to carry them. The same thing will apply to other projects that are being undertaken with these loans. Of course, not to talk of development of the power sector and so on.” Meanwhile, Chief Olabode George, a former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has appealed to foreign nations not to lend President Muhammadu Buhari any money, saying the wastages in Nigeria is alarming. Speaking in a chat with Daily Independent on the $29.96 billion 2016-2018 external borrowing plan sent by President Buhari to the Senate for its consideration and approval, George said foreign nations will be laughing at Nigeria for borrowing money while a lot of financial wastages was going on in the country. “President Buhari wants to go and borrow money now. They will ask him ‘look at the wastages in your country’. Why should they give him money? They should give him nothing. How many African countries do you see these kinds of thing? All these unnecessary adverts on CNN by Nigerian companies on products that are purely Nigerian is pure wastage.”