Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari, raised eyebrow over the spate of abandoned projects in Nigeria, and disclosed that his administration would employ stringent measures to activate the projects with a view to adding value to the growth of the nation’s economy.In this report, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH, OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA and ISAAC ASABOR, take a cursory look on the subject matter and explore how far the Buhari will win the war against the age-long of project abandonment in Nigeria’s political space. The culture of project abandonment in government’s business is intractable. Its social and economic menace has continued to stare Nigerians in the face about how graft has dotted the principle of awarding and completing capital projects which would add value to the lives of the citizens It is no more arguable for anyone to posit that Projects abandonment is both social and economic menace. The reason for the somewhat unanimous position which everyone has taken on the issue, which is no doubt detrimental to Nigeria’s infrastructural growth, cannot be farfetched as most government projects are abandoned half way after commencement by contractors. In fact, the alarming increase in the number of abandoned projects in Nigeria today has become a great concern to many well-meaning Nigerians, the presidency and lawmakers who see the need for such projects to be completed by the various levels of government that initiated and embarked on such projects from the beginning. Little wonder,  the president and chairman of the governing council, Chartered Institute of Project Management of Nigeria (CIPMN), Dr. (Mrs.) Victoria Okoronkwo,  recently disclosed that the cost of abandoned projects in Nigeria stood  at N12 trillion. Mere dismissal of her figure as figment of imagination didn’t underplay the Okoronkwo’s  huge concern on subject matter, especially against the backdrop of  her claim that  abandoned projects captured spread across geopolitical zones in the country where 15,000 were found in the South-East, 10,000 in the South-West, 11,000 in the South-South, 6,000 in the North-West, 7,000 in the North-Central, 5,000 in the North-East and 2,000 in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Abandoned Projects Spread In the face of the stark reality of abandoned projects spread across geo-political zones in the country, most Nigerians maintained that such level of waste and mismanagement was capable of stunting Nigeria’s infrastructural growth. In the same vein, they were unanimous that the major reason for the high number of abandoned projects in Nigeria was due to increasing corrupt tendencies among leaders. Some alleged that top political office holders are wont to seek for approval of funds for a given projects, but divert the said funds for personal gains after work has begun on site. They explained that it is not news that politicians use projects as drain pipes to plunder the country’s treasury and waste taxpayers money. Besides the increasing rate of corruption, which not a few experts and observers have for the umpteenth time linked to shoddy contract performance, lack of political will among politicians has no doubt been worsening the retrogressive trend that has continued to frustrate all efforts being made to attain enviable infrastructural development in the country. They are wont to contend that lack of political will has been one of the major reasons why poor monitoring, inconsistent government policies and political interference among others persist. Experts in the supply chain management sector have  at various times alleged that some top contracts failed because agencies change requirements or scope after the contracts are awarded, adding that poor communication exists between the agency and the contractor. They  noted  how effective post contract evaluation (PCE) can help improve contract performance in Nigeria if the evaluation is done in a manner that guarantees fairness while the method and modality for collecting and reporting information should be agreed on at the time of signing the contract. The foregoing point of view cannot be divorced from views expressed at the yearly conference of the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply Chain (UK) Nigeria branch last year. Interactively dwelling on the topic, ‘Impact of Post-Contract Evaluation and Appraisal on the Nigerian Economy’, one of the faculties that graced the event last year, Mr. Olubusola Ogunbanwo, the General Manager, Supply Chain Management, Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, and invariably a procurement expert advised the governments on the need to save funds and assign people to work on them to get abandoned projects completed. Cases of abandoned projects across the country cannot be recalled without mentioning Ajaokuta Steel Mill, Rivers Monorail project, Ekiti Airport, Delta Steel Company, among several other abandoned or uncompleted projects. For the sake of clarity, the Rivers State Monorail, also known as Rivers Monorail and occasionally as Port Harcourt Monorail, is a proposed monorail urban transportation project in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Nigeria. Unarguably paying attention to the trend of abandoned projects across the country, President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday, penultimate week , ordered the probe of those who failed to judiciously spend the over N1 trillion voted for such projects in the last 10 years. Some of the abandoned projects cut across the second phase of the construction of a mini-water scheme, a small earth dam, rehabilitation of two-township water supply schemes as well as the improvement of Olode Water Supply Scheme, all in Ogun State. These projects are under the lower Niger River Basin Development Authority. Other projects monitored and found to be abandoned are; the 24-kilometre Akungba-Ikare-Omuo-Kabba highway in Ondo and Ekiti states, the proposed perimeter fencing of Weru Bridge and Okene Water Works in Kogi State. Elemo noted that in the states visited, there was a recurring issue of disobedience to procurement laws and financial regulations, calling for investigations of the concerned contractors. The president who gave his backing to ICPC at the opening of the National Summit on Diminishing Corruption in Public Sector, at the State House Conference Centre in Abuja said, “The funds didn’t produce expected results”, and he did not feign his intention plan to go after the contractors. The event was organised by the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, in collaboration with ICPC. According to him, the data collected from Nigerians in rural communities showed that they had not felt the impact of such projects. Besides directing the anti-graft agency to go after the contractors who collected funds for such projects and their collaborators in government, the President also urged the National Assembly to fast-track the passage of the Special Crimes Court Bill. The President added:  ‘‘It is on record that in the past 10 years One trillion naira (N1 trillion) has been appropriated for constituency projects, yet the impact of such huge spending on the lives and welfare of ordinary Nigerians can hardly be seen. ‘‘The first phase report of tracking these projects by ICPC confirms our worst fears that people at the grassroots have not benefited in terms commensurate with the huge sums appropriated for constituency projects since inception. ‘‘I am, therefore, delighted that through the effort of ICPC, some contractors are returning to site to execute projects hitherto abandoned and that project sponsors are being held to account. Reps Show Concern On Ajaokuta Steel Company In a similar vein, the House of Representatives has mandated its relevant committees to get details of the agreement between Nigeria and Russia on the completion of the Ajaokuta Steel Company. The committees which include Steel as well as Treaties, Protocols and Agreements are to interface with the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Mr. Olamilekan Adegbite. This was sequel to a unanimous adoption of a motion by Rep. Nkem Abonta (PDP-Abia) at the plenary on Tuesday, November 26, 2019. Moving the motion earlier, Abonta said that it was in order to ensure a seamless ratification of such an agreement in line with the provisions of relevant laws. Abonta recalled that the 8th National Assembly passed the Ajaokuta Steel Completion Fund Bill in 2018 and transmitted it to the President for assent, but he withheld assent to the Bill. Abonta said that the Bill was reviewed and the concerns raised by the President addressed, and had passed First Reading in the 9th House of Representatives. According to him, media reports claim that President Mohammadu Buhari  signed a government-to-government agreement with the Russian President, Vladimir Putin at the recently concluded Russian-Africa summit in Sochi. He said that the Russian Engineering and Construction Group, MetProm, is to undertake necessary work to bring Ajaokuta Steel Company into operation. Abonta said that it would be financed by the state-owned Russian Export Centre, JSC, and the Cairo-based African Export-Import Bank. The legislator said that Section 12 of the constitution provides that no treaty between the Federation and any other country shall have the force of law except to the extent to which any such treaty has been enacted into law by the National Assembly. He said added that the National Assembly as an Arm of Government was responsible for making laws for the peace, order and good governance of Nigeria, and that the parliament was also passionate about national development, including revamping the moribund Ajaokuta Steel Company. According to him, the National Assembly is not privy to the details of the agreement signed by President Buhari and his Russian counterpart. Abonta, however, commended the action of the President in taking pragmatic steps towards ensuring the full operation of the Ajaokuta Steel Company. The house mandated the Committee on Treaties, Protocols and Agreements to review all extant treaties entered into by the Federal Government and other countries with a view to invoking Section 12(1) of the constitution on implementation of such agreements. In his ruling, the Speaker of the House mandated the committees to report back within four weeks for further legislative action. DAILY INDEPENDENT recalls that precisely on 26 September, 2019, two months ago that officials of Federal Ministry of Power, Transmission Company of Nigeria ( TCN), Nigeria Electricity Management Service Agency (NEMSA) and other stakeholders in the power sector, appeared before a House of Representatives Ad hoc Committee on power. The committee was formed through an Act to investigate abandoned power projects and review Federal government’s expenditure in the power sector since 1999. Declaring the public hearing open, the Speaker House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, said that the house deliberated on the motion to investigate the power sector on 24th July,2019. The speaker, who was represented by the house Chief Whip, Muhammad Tahir Monguno said, a related Motion was also deliberated upon on Thursday, 25th September on the need to “Review Government Expenditure on the Power Sector” to ensure sustenance of the Power Reform Programme in Nigeria. He said:“Today,my fellow Nigerians, I want to state that, the Motions as deliberated are wake up calls. You will agree with me that since 1999 to date that the National Assembly has appropriated huge sums of monies in the Power Sector and there are lots and much to be desired from the sector. The problem is you and I; we are not patriotic enough in the discharge of our responsibilities to our Nation, Nigeria, ”he said. According to him, the constitution of the committee was to enable the House in moving forward and evaluate the monies appropriated compared to utilisation. “In the course of carrying out this assignment, the committee is at liberty in line with Sections 88 and 89 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) to invite any Organisations, Agencies, Persons either still in active service or retired to make clarification where necessary”, he added. Speaking, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power, Linus Edozien said that as the supervising ministry, it has directed all its agencies to submit details of their activities to the committee over the years. He said the ministry had been carrying out its supervisory role in the power sector towards realising government’s efforts of providing stable and enough power to Nigerian citizens. In his submission, Engineer Peter Eweso of the Nigerian Electricity Management Service Agency (NEMSA), said the agency metamorphosed from a department to an agency a few years ago so as to ensure standards of technical services in the power sector. He however disclosed that, before its transformation to a supervisory agency, it has executed 14 power related projects across the country. On his part, Engineer Geoffrey Nwoteoye of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN),said in an effort to improve power transmission in the country, it has installed about 40 high capacity transformers at various transmission substations across the country. According to him, the power transmission in the country as at December 2018 was 8,500 megawatts which he said, later fluctuated between 4000 and 5000 megawatts. Nwoteoye further stated that, TCN had for a long time been battling with transmission challenges resulting in less power being utilised by DISCOs despite the presence of residual power which sometimes caused High Voltage incidences which damage transmission equipment. He also disclosed that TCN is also being owed billions of naira by the power distribution companies, and that that had affected its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). Also speaking, Engineer Muhammad Abubakar Wataram of Rural Electrification Agency (REA) said, after the Power Reform Act, the agency inherited 1,946 electrification projects being handled by 1,198 contractors, and disclosed that there are only 414 that are not completed. Other agencies have also made submissions during the hearing which was later adjourned. In his remarks, chairman of the committee, Tajuddeen Abbas, who was represented during the hearing by Usman Bello Kumo said the hearing is very important in order to revive the country’s power sector. Advocacy Against Abandoned Projects There are mounting criticisms by Nigerians against the growing and seemingly unabated culture of abandoned projects in the country. Observers told DAILY INDEPENDENT that such culture constitutes severe injury to Nigeria, adding that the country cannot afford to waste much-needed funds the way it is currently being experienced. Festus Oladimeji, a public affairs analyst, told one of our Correspondents that the growing level of abandoned projects is unsustainable and should be nipped in the bud through proactive legislations. He said:”The political leaders who awarded contracts just to squander the funds meant for capital projects must be brought to book in order to serve as deterrent to others. Nigeria should no longer be turned to looters republic by contractors who do not mean well for the country. That’s why it gladdens my heart that President Muhammadu Buhari is desirous of beaming his searchlights on the contractors as well as promising to wield the big sticks on those found wanting in abandoning projects in the country’’ Be that as it may, the nagging question remains, “Will Nigeria Win the War Against Abandoned Projects?”