A Federal High Court sitting in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital, on Wednesday struck out a suit seeking for the amendment of Nigerian Constitution to allow President Muhammadu Buhari and Governors to seek third term in office. The applicant and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Charles Enya, in suit no. FHC/AI/CS/90/19, had approached the Federal High Court in Abakiliki seeking for the amendment of section 137(1) (b) and 182 (1) (b) of the Nigerian constitution to allow for a third term for the President and the state Governors. Enya had argued in the suit that the aforementioned sections were infringing on the fundamental human rights of President Buhari and the state Governors who might wish to seek for a third term in office. The suit, which was filed on 20th November 2019, came up for hearing on Wednesday, but counsel to the applicant, Iheanachor Agboti, applied for the withdrawal of the suit. Agboti told the court he was withdrawing the suit on the instruction of his client, Enya. “I have the instruction of my client to withdraw the suit so as to allow further consultation”, he told the court. Ruling on the application, Justice Akintayo Aluko granted the application, and therefore, struck out the suit. “Upon the application of the learned counsel for the applicant for the withdrawal of this suit, I say may the case be struck out”, Justice Aluko ruled. Recall that since the suit was filed, it had generated backlashes and criticisms against Enya from different quarters, including his party,which issued a press statement disowning him and the suit. National Publicity Secretary of APC, Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a press statement threatened a legal action against Enya, as well as “serious disciplinary action” if truly he was a member of the party. The Ebonyi State Chapter of APC also condemned Enya for filing such suit, describing it as self-serving. However, sources said that Enya withdrew the suit following pressures from some leaders of APC within and outside Ebonyi State, as well as other interest groups.