Senator Adetola Juyitan, the President of Junior Chamber International (JCI) Nigeria, has expressed the readiness of his organisation to partner with the Kwara State Government in facilitating leadership training for members of the Kwara State Executive Council and the lawmakers. This initiative is to deepen and strengthen the state leadership’s capacity to deliver dividends of democracy to the people. Juyitan gave the hint during a courtesy visit to the Office of the Kwara State Governor in Ilorin recently. The JCI Nigeria President who was received by the state Deputy Governor, Mr. Kayode Alabi, noted that JCI Nigeria was willing to assist the Kwara State government in achieving its set objectives by offering the needed capacity development programmes for the leadership of the state. Before the visit to the governor, Juyitan had earlier been received by senior members of the JCI Nigeria in the state, including 2019 National Vice President (South West 1), JCI Nigeria Ambassador Adekunle Babatunde Samson, 2007 JCI Nigeria President, JCI Sen. Jimoh Musa Yusuf, JCI Sen. Raimi Akanbi, 2019 JCI Kwara President, JCI Ilorin Protem President and members of JCI in Kwara State as a whole. In his remarks, Alabi applauded the commitment and leadership qualities exhibited by Juyitan in propagating the ideals of non-government organizations, noting that such traits would help a great deal to motivate the younger ones. He charged the JCI Nigeria team to continue in their drive to support the youths by organising series of skill acquisition programmes that would get the youths properly engaged. He, therefore, promised to render support on any initiative or project embarked upon by the organisation in line with the administration’s determination to reduce the menace of the prevailing unemployment among youths in the state. In her remarks, Juyitan explained that JCI Nigeria as an organisation would continue to support the government by playing its role as citizens; making government at all levels to succeed. “This is because members across the globe understand that we as citizens also have a role to play for any government to be successful,” she added. Juyitan also visited the Kwara State House of Assembly where she was received by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Raphael Adetiba and other principal officers. She, therefore, revealed that the organisation was willing and open to enter into partnership with legislative arm of the state especially in the area of capacity development of its lawmakers