Lagos – There are strong indications that the Federal Government has commenced the payment of the final severance package of N22.5 billion to workers of the defunct national carrier, Nigeria Airways. This emerged on Tuesday night when some of the staff of the liquidated airline confirmed receiving their final severance package through bank alerts. The payment is coming barely 12 months after the first batch of N22.5 billion, representing 50 percent of the total package, was paid by the Federal Government through the Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA), a department in the Ministry of Finance. The government had assured the former workers that the balance of N22.5 billion would be paid in the next six months, but paucity of funds may have delayed the payment till this December. One of the affected staff, Tony Efe, posted on the Facebook page of the former workers, ‘Ex-workers of liquidated Nigeria Airways Ltd’ on December 24, 2019 got alerts for the first 50 percent supplementary and the second 50 percent meant for the workers were being received by some of the former staff.” He posted: “Good news at last. For those agitating for the first 50 percent, supplementary, and the second 50 percent, it will interest you to know that those who have never been paid the first 50 percent have started receiving alerts today December 24. “Those waiting for supplementary are also getting theirs. This isSet featured image not ‘them say’. I personally know someone who has just confirmed her payment for supplementary. “But for the second 50 percent, we are yet to get any concrete information if anyone has received. However, as the alerts are rolling in, we implore everyone to have high hope for the balance. “It must surely come, no matter how long. Remember, we were told that it’s a continuous process. So, let’s keep hope alive. If you have not got yours, be patient, you will get it definitely. Bless and thank God for everything. Amen.” Engr. Lookman Animashaun, the President, Aviation Union Grand Alliance (AUGA), in a telephone interview with our correspondent could not, however, confirm or deny the commencement of the second 50 percent severance packages to workers, but said those in batches 10 and 11 had begun to receive payment alerts. According to him, those in batches 10 and 11 were the retirees or their beneficiaries who didn’t benefit from the initial 50 percent payment of N22.5 billion. Animashaun told our correspondent that the committee set up for that purpose met about two weeks ago where it was concluded that the second batch of the 50 percent would be paid to the over 6,000 workers. He said: “The committee met fortnight ago and agreed that the final payment should commence on or before Christmas. It doesn’t mean everyone will collect the same day, but they would have started. “Some people actually said they have received the 50 percent payment, however, the one I am sure of is the batches 10 and 11 who were paid. These were those that carried out their verification last. It is a continuous exercise. “The one I am very sure of is the one I have told you: batches 10 and 11. The Accountant General Office might have commenced the balance of the payment of the other 50 percent, but I can’t confirm that for now. However, I am very sure that the process for the payment is already in place.” It would be recalled that Nigeria Airways was liquidated in 2004 without its over 6,000 workers being paid any entitlements. Following continued agitations by the workers for their entitlements, President Muhammadu Buhari, in 2018, approved that all audited staff of the organisation be paid 50 percent of their severance entitlements.