Lagos – The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development has warned Engr. Ibrahim Gusau, President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) to stop disregarding lawful directives issued by the Federal Government of Nigeria. In a letter dated November 25, 2019 and signed by the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, Gusau was given a seven day ultimatum to comply with all government directives or face sanctions. A competent source close to Gusau told our correspondent that the letter highlighted the directives which the AFN president failed to comply with to include the recent letter directing the removal of Sunday Adeleye as the technical director of the AFN. “Gusau was also reminded of the Notice of Recall of Adeleye as the Athletes Representative sent by the Track and Field Athletes Union (TFAU) and queried why the advice of the Honourable Minister (Barrister Solomon Dalung at the time) given via letter reference number FMYSD/FEAD/TFAN/2019/CON/1/23  and dated June 26,2019 was ignored,” said the source who preferred not to be named. Gusau’s decision to disregard the Minister’s advice necessitated the recent reminder written to the Sports Ministry and the AFN by the TFAU demanding that their decision must be respected. The source showed our correspondent a copy of the letter sent to Gusau and therein he was warned against disobeying lawful directives. “The Minister notes that your actions in the above circumstances amounts to utter disdain, contempt and disregard for lawful directive of government. As a federation funded from the public treasury, this aversion of authority is certainly unbecoming of an official in a national post of trust,” read the letter inter-alia. Gusau was then issued a seven day ultimatum which expires on Monday December 2,2019 to remove Adeleye as the federation’s technical director. “You are by this letter, once more, directed to convey the directives of the Honourable Minister for the immediate removal from office of Mr. Sunday Adeleye as technical director of the AFN and evidence of compliance delivered to the Honourable Minister within seven days from the date of this letter,” the letter further read. Meanwhile the AFN has fixed Tuesday December 3, 2019 for a board meeting at its secretariat in Abuja. In a notice of meeting signed by Prince Adisa Beyioku, the federation’s Secretary General  and made available to press men on Friday, the meeting will hold at the federation’s secretariat inside the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja. The meeting was called by Gusau, following a November 4, 2019 letter he sent to the Secretary General to convey the meeting.