A helicopter, ambulances, and police were called to an ‘isolated incident’ on Hazel Way, in Crawley Down, just before 11 am today. There they found the two women outside and a man seriously injured inside the property. He has then rushed Royal Sussex County Hospital in Brighton, where he remains. A man was then arrested on suspicion of murder, with initial reports stating that he had been in possession of a knife. However, Detective Chief Inspector Alex Geldart, of the Sussex and Surrey major crime team, has now stated that the incident was ‘not a knife crime’. She continued: ‘At this time we believe this to be an isolated incident, with no ongoing risk to members of the public. ‘This is a fast-moving investigation which will see significant police resources deployed to the scene for the foreseeable future. ‘We are grateful for the support and patience of the local community while we conduct our inquiries.’ Three forensic tents were pitched in the street, while residents said 10 police cars had initially been dispatched to the scene to deal with the incident. Investigators in white forensic suits could be seen combing the area for evidence. A police cordon remains in place around the houses close to where the bodies were found. Witnesses living in the area stated that they believed the women had been stabbed to death by the attacker. One said: ‘It seems he has killed two people and severely stabbed the third person. I don’t know whether they are related to him but it is just terrible. ‘To think that on a Sunday morning you wake up to a normal day and suddenly all this happens. It is even more desperate because it is so close to Christmas.’ Another neighbor added: ‘This is normally such a quiet place, nothing nasty ever happens here. We are just a nice ordinary estate with now trouble. Investigators in white forensic suits could be seen combing the area for evidence. A police cordon remains in place around the houses close to where the bodies were found. Witnesses living in the area stated that they believed the women had been stabbed to death by the attacker. One said: ‘It seems he has killed two people and severely stabbed the third person. I don’t know whether they are related to him but it is just terrible. ‘To think that on a Sunday morning you wake up to a normal day and suddenly all this happens. It is even more desperate because it is so close to Christmas.’ Another neighbor added: ‘This is normally such a quiet place, nothing nasty ever happens here. We are just a nice ordinary estate with now trouble.’       