IBADAN – The Nigerian Institution of Surveyors (NIS) Oyo State branch has stated that it was ready to partner with the state government to generate more revenues for the state. Mr. Aderemi Kobiowu, Oyo State NIS Chairman, made this pledge while speaking during the inauguration of new executive members of the institution who were inaugurated to steer the ship of the institution for another two years. The inauguration, which coincided with the annual luncheon of the institution, held in Ibadan, the state capital was attended by Mr. Seyi Makinde, the State Governor, who was represented by Barrister Abdulrahman Abdulraheem, the Commissioner for Lands, Survey and Housing and Oniroko of Iroko. Others were former Akin Oyegbola, NIS President, who represented Charles Alabo, the incumbent NIS President, and Dr. Muideen Olatunji, Executive Secretary of Oyo State Primary Healthcare Board. Those that were returned as executive members included Prince Aderemi Kobiowu (Chairman), Taiwo Oyejola (Vice Chairman), Dasola Adefabi (Secretary), Adenike Oladipo (Assistant Secretary), Kamilu Akinsola (Treasurer), S.A. Ajayi (Internal Auditor), Alex Egberinde (Publicity/ Social Secretary), Ademola Saka (Council Representative). Kobiowu while speaking said that the NIS was ready to partner the state government in generating more revenues. According to him, “NIS Oyo State branch is ready to partner with the state government to have meaningful development in the state. Among the area of partnership made by the institution is to have an input into the Blueprint for policy direction of Oyo State. “Here, I itemised the policy direction that will help the state government in generating more revenue: Regularization of illegal occupation of government acquisition, Regularization of title document and building plan of existing building, to relax process of certificate of occupancy, duplication of the role of GIS agency with that of the ministry of lands, housing and survey, and Government land acquisition that required review. Dr. Matthew Ibitoye, the Guest Speaker of the department of Remote Sensing and Geoscience Information System in his paper entitled, ‘Repositioning Surveying Profession in a challenging Economy,’ maintained that repositioning surveying profession in Nigeria must be seen as a task that required contributions from all and sundry.