P/HARCOURT – The drama plaguing the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has refused to abate despite public outcry. This is the first time since its inception, the Commission is having two separate bodies to oversee its activities. It beats critical minds that a board that has been duly screened by the Senate on the order of President Mohammadu Buhari is still not inaugurated. The existence of the interim management committee, IMC, which everybody now believes is the creation of the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio has since taken the shine off the board. The Dr. Joy Nunieh’s led IMC has also divided the entire National Assembly along the line of interest, the same way it has created division among the Niger Delta people, particularly, armed chair critics and sundry rights groups. It was reported that the Senate had threatened not to allow the 3-man interim committee to defend its 2020 budget except a recognized board was allowed to take charge of the Commission’s affairs. But the House of Representatives appears to have budged. What is not very clear is the insistence of the Minister of the Niger Delta Ministry who prefers the interim committee to an already screened board legally recognized by the Act that set up the Commission. Findings within the NDDC hinted that Senator Akpabio has an overwhelming influence over the committee and members are answerable to him. The board, if sworn in to take over the affairs of the NDDC will not report to the Minister but to the President. Though the Minister believes that the interim management committee was best positioned to midwife the forensic audit of the Commission as ordered by President Buhari, not many people will swallow such pill. The board of the NDDC is backed by law. The committee is not. So, the committee is an illegal creation that is meant to protect the interest of few persons in the region. In an attempt to justify his decision of opting for the interim committee, Akpabio argued that the reason why the Board was not inaugurated to start work at the Commission was because there was an error in the composition of its membership. He said that until the correction in the composition of the board is made, it will not be inaugurated. It will be recalled that shortly after the 15-man board was confirmed on November 5, the Senate President, Lawan Ahmed instructed the board to take over the affairs of the NDDC with immediate effect. On the day of the screening, the IMC chairperson, Joy Nunieh was absent which further generated the rumor of some fast game going on in the Commission. Sources hinted that there has been intense lobbying by the Akpabio camp to discourage the inauguration of the board. This does not go down well with some persons in power. The senate Committee chairman on NDDC, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi was reported to have asked Akpabio to explain how $91million and N6billion he met at the Commission’s account was utilized. The Minister’s withdrawal from the senatorial re-election in Akwa Ibom state also confirms the fear of some Nigerians that the Minister must have seen what interests him in the NDDC than the senate. The budget of the Niger Delta ministry is less than N30billion. That of the NDDC runs into hundreds of billions of naira. Akpabio had made it clear that he would love to leave a signature of performance in the Niger Delta, a repeat of his achievement when he held sway for eight years as the Governor of Akwa Ibom State. Akpabio alleged that those who have wrecked the NDDC are those calling for the dissolution of the interim management committee. He had made it known that about ten auditing companies had been contacted already to carry out the task of cleaning the mess in the Commission. He explained that each of those Companies would investigate the activities of NDDC in each of the nine states that make up the Commission while the remaining one would work at the headquarters in Port Harcourt. Sources said lobbying is being intensified to thwart the effort of government from carrying out the threat of investigating the Commission. Doing so, will expose a lot of people whose hands have been soiled with scandalous contract deals in the NDDC. But Akpabio looks bent to ensure that the interventionist agency is thoroughly probed so that the incoming board can start on a clean slate. It is not clear whether the Nigeria Extractive Industry Transparency Initiatives (NEITI) is part of the companies or agencies contacted to carry out the audit. Some Nigerians had rooted for this agency having shown capacity to do a thorough job. Already, fingers are beginning to point at the direction of the Senate Committee chairman, Nwaoboshi as the owner of the consultancy firm that the NDDC pays N1billion for liaising between the international oil companies (IOCs), and the Commission to collect the statutory contributions to the development of the Niger Delta region. This allegation was basically one of the numerous reasons why the National Assembly is skeptical about allowing Akpabio to supervise the forensic audit of the NDDC. Nwaoboshi would fire back by asking the former Governor of Akwa Ibom State to explain how $91million and another N6billion was utilized under his watch as the supervising Minister of the Commission. There are several allegations of huge sleaze rocking the Commission. One of such has to do with the money said to have been injected into the completion of the NDDC headquarters located along the Eastern By-pass. Meanwhile, last Tuesday, the House of Representatives ordered the Commission to clear all its liabilities through the implementation of its 2019 budget. The House of Representatives Committee on NDDC issued the directive when the interim management of the commission, led by the acting Managing Director, Dr. Joy Nunieh, appeared before the lawmakers to defend the budget proposed for 2019. Before now, the committee, at the last sitting, had vowed not to consider the 2020 budget proposed by NDDC until the 2019 budget was presented and considered. And this is capable of causing a serious developmental setback for the Commission and the Niger Delta at large. The Chairman of the committee, Mr. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, accused the commission of failing to implement its 2019 budget due to widespread infractions and sharp practices by the former management. Tunji-Ojo said that for the implementation of NDDC’s 2019 budget, the commission must present the list of all contractors it owed, adding that payment of claims would only be made after thorough verification and approval by the committee. The lawmaker also stated that the NDDC must recover the over N1 trillion owed it by various entities to offset the commission’s liabilities. He made it clear that when the recommendations by the committee are approved by the House, all ongoing projects in the NNDC’s 2019 budget would be rolled over to 2020, which he said would be considered after the approval. He lamented that the commission was 14 months behind schedule in implementing 2019 budget, describing it as a huge drawback. In her presentation, Nunieh said a total sum of N346,513,046,220 was proposed by the NDDC as budget for 2019 based on the assumption of an improved revenue inflow, adding that as of December 2018, the aggregate revenue inflow was N291.47bn. Meanwhile, the interim management committee will not only have the National Assembly to do battle with, contractors to the NDDC are also ready to join the foray and they have shown enough willingness already as they called for the immediate disbandment of the IMC and withdrawal of the Commission from Akpabio’s supervision. In a petition by the Forum of the Niger Delta Activists (FNDA) addressed to the President Buhari, President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives among others, the Niger Delta Activists expressed fear that the region may suffer untold hardship because of the inability of the National Assembly to pass the Commission’s budget. The Forum argued that the rates of executive succession in the NDDC has been different from what prevails in other parastatals, like; the Petroleum Development Trust Fund (PTDF), NIMASA, TETFUND among others with reasons which can mostly be alluded to corruption and greed on the parts of both the appointees and their sponsors. Jointly signed by Dr. Sam Oprite and Arnold Bassey, convener and co-convener of the Forum respectively, the activists alluded to the fact that NDDC has in this year alone (2019), had four different management teams, namely; the Senator Ndoma Egba’s board, Professor Nelson Brambaifa’s Management Committee, Dr. Mrs. Akwagaga Enyia as the acting Managing Director, and most recently, the Dr. Joy Gbene Nunieh’s Steering Management Committee which was in contravention of the NDDC’s Act of 2000. It called on the President to heed the calls by the National Assembly and well-meaning Nigerians who have stood against the appointment of the Interim Management Committee of the NDDC due to its illegality while the minister, Akpabio has refused to revert to status quo. “The Interim Management Committee is not recognized by the Act as the legitimate authority to defend it. Sections 8(a), 14(3) and 18(1) of the NDDC’s Act of 2000, empowers the board to manage and supervise the affairs of the Commission, to manage its funds and gives it the responsibilities of generating and defending budgetary estimates of the Commission”. It said that rather than listening to the voices of reason, “the minister has held unto his illegality in the name of President Muhammadu Buhari and has actuated ludicrous propaganda which is at variance with the fact and issue in context – ‘misinformation of the President on the provisions of the NDDC’s Act thereby leading to the appointment of an illegal Management Committee into the NDDC’. “He has further attempted to mislead our President, Nigerians and Niger Deltans by alluding that those who are against the forensic audit ordered by the President are the ones kicking against the appointment of the 3-Man Interim Management Committee and attacking his person. The truth is that Niger Deltans have decided to stand against incessant appointments of illegal Management Committees into the NDDC who are only engrossed in stealing the common wealth of the people and servicing the pockets of their sponsors at the detriment of the region”. The Forum went on to say that “those who are against the forensic audit are the people who misled the Federal Executive Council into approving a whopping 16 billion Naira for the completion of the NDDC’s headquarters building which was initially awarded for 5 billion Naira, with the contractor having executed over 60% of the job and purchased all the paraphernalia needed to drive the job to a 100% completion before it was re-awarded. “Those who are also against the forensic audit are the people who collected 450 Million Naira from the Commission through various NGOs for a one day programme which never existed, and continued to replicate more of such programmes at that same amount which ran into multi-billions of Naira without being executed or having any impact on the lives of our deprived and starved brothers and sisters. “Those who are against the forensic audit are the same people who awarded phony contracts to their cronies and paid for them without anything on ground to show for them. They are still there at the helm of affairs trying to impose inept people on us to cover up their mess, and replicate the ills of their predecessors”. The Forum noted that every Niger Deltan applauds President Buhari for ordering a forensic audit of the NDDC. “But what we will not accept is for the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs who is involved in a corruption imbroglio with the EFCC to nominate the forensic auditors or allow his illegal Interim Management Committee to oversee the auditing process”. It noted that for the forensic audit to achieve its required validity, credibility and acceptability, President Buhari should appoint people with untainted reputation from the EFCC, ICPC, NFIU, and the office of the Accountant General of the Federation to conduct it, and it should be overseen by the President himself, and not Senator Godswill Akpabio. “The simple solution to the problem(s) of the NDDC is good leadership. We know that it has been difficult for the government to provide us with one. No doubt, it (good leadership) can be ‘ENFORCED’ if the forensic audit is properly conducted and the full weight of the law is brought upon those who had defrauded the system one way or the other. The third and final request from His Excellency, Mr. President is for the governing board of the NDDC to be sworn in as provided for by the NDDC Act of 2000, as soon as possible. “Senator Godswill Akpabio should be shown the way out, the illegal Interim Management Committee of the NDDC should be thrown out. The new NDDC governing board should be sworn in and the forensic audit should begin with auditors appointed from EFCC, ICPC, NFIU, and that of the Accountant General of the Federation, but to be overseen by the President. “Most of us have borrowed monies from friends, relatives, family members, banks, and loan sharks in order to engage in, properly execute and complete our contracts with the NDDC without being able to access the Commission and our funds. “Our families have become distraught and destabilized because we can no longer provide the basic necessities of life for them due to bad leadership imposed on us by greedy politicians who do not mean well for the region. We urge you, on behalf of the oppressed and downtrodden Niger Delta People to graciously revive the NDDC to deliver on its mandate of developing the Niger Delta region”, the group in the petition. Other groups like the pan Niger Delta Elders Forum, PANDEF, had also called on the President to reconsider the constitution of the interim management committee, IMC, and put proper board in place to run its full course as contain in the NDDC Act. Chief Anaps Sara-Igbe, spokesman of PANDEF while thanking the President for initiating the audit, urged him to extend the same probe to the 13% derivation fund given to oil bearing states. “We want to know how the governors are utilization this money. While we thank President Buhari for initiating the probe, we want him to extend it to the 13% derivation. “If well utilized, the money and what is coming into NDDC should be enough to take the Niger Delta region away from the situation it finds itself today. We don’t have any reason to complain as a people if these monies are used for what they were meant for”.