Sequel to the National Union of Electricity Employees’ (NUEE) nationwide strike which was suspended on Thursday, the leadership of the Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEC) which is no doubt in the same struggle with NUEE, has given reasons on why it backed out from the strike action that was embarked nationwide. According to SSAEC in a statement made available to our correspondent, NUEE had in a letter dated November 7, 2019 solicited the support of the entire members of SSAEC where it partly stated, “We hereby solicit your maximum understanding and cooperation for the emancipation of workers in the Power Sector. These issues have been in the sector for so long and continue to fester without the necessary intervention.” SSAEC added that NUEE had in another bearing the same date as the edition it received, intimated the Honourable minister of power, Mr. Sale Mamman, that the union (NUEE) had warned before the privatisation exercise carried out in the then Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) in 2013 that the exercise was not thorough, and will not be in the best interest of Nigerians and workers in the sector. SSAEC added that NUEE intimated the minister of Power on how the Bureau for Public Enterprises (BPE), Electricity Generation Companies (GENCOS) and Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOS) have exacerbated the problems that are inherent in the sector. SSAEC argued that the letter ought to have been directed to the minister of labour and employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, as issues pointed out in the letter majorly dwelt on employment related issues. SSAEC alleged that the impunity continued as its invitation by NUEE to a meeting on the issues was flagrantly rebuffed. “It said that the action by the leadership of the junior staff electricity union was an indication that the action was premeditated, but being pursued under false premises. It stated that “NUEE wrote SSAEC that it would go on with the threatened action alone; a level of confidence that was suspicious given that it would be impossible for NUEE to embark on the threatened shutting down of power sector”. SSAEC had strongly insisted that, “NUEE’s threat letter to the minister of power was in all its ramifications abnormal as the senior staff counterpart in the electricity sector was not consulted and worse still, the letter was addressed to the wrong audience as such letter of trade dispute ought to have been addressed to the minister of labour and employment, who is the legal arbiter/mediator in all labour disputes. “To worsen the matter, we are however, surprised with the diversion from the subject matter to issues not pertinent in the instant case. We do not think there is any tension or division between our unions except proven otherwise. “We believe any issue(s) subsisting between us can be amicably resolved without litigation or third parties involvement. We reiterate our earlier appeal for support and do hope you will allow reasons to prevail. SSAEC, no doubt, was also not in the least pleased with the tone of NUEE’s reaction to its response on the aforementioned letter as it was in bad taste. Ostensibly absolving itself from the nationwide strike masterminded by NUEE, SSAEC had in a letter dated December 9, 2019, and addressed to the minister of power stated its position on the strike. It partially read, “As indicated in our letter, we wrote NUEE to have meeting(s) to appraise the reasons for the threat to industrial action, since we were not part of that decision and subsequent threat to industrial peace in the sector. That proposed meeting was not accepted by NUEE for reasons not known to SSAEC. “Consequent upon the lack of engagement of SSAEAC by NUEE towards finding solutions to the issues raised and our conviction that there is no need for such threat, we hereby dissociate from such planned action. “To start with, the honourable minister of power, to whom the letter was addressed, cannot stand for the individual companies that are legal entities on their own. Moreover, we are suspicious of the intention of sponsors of the action within and outside NUEE”.