LAGOS  – The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, NAFDAC, is set to clampdown on distributors and sellers of unapproved edible oil nationwide even as it raised the alarm over the dangers of consuming such oil. Speaking during the FSAN Directorate, Stakeholders Engagement with Marketers and Sellers of Edible Oil in Lagos, NAFDAC Director of Food Security and Applied Nutrition, Mr Olagunju Sherif expressed concern over the complications that may arise from consuming such adulterated and unwholesome product; adding that it could lead to diseases like cancer, damage internal organs, kidney and result in other health issues. Sherif said NAFDAC will no longer tolerate the sale and distribution of edible oil that is not fortified with Vitamin A. “We have a lot of issues concerning people who are selling these products.  You know vegetable oil is a special product and it is one of the vehicles through which the Federal Ministry of Health is using to resolve vitamin A deficiency we are having in the country. So vegetable oil is required to be fortified with vitamin A before it can be sold, so all vegetable oil sold in Nigeria needs to be fortified with vitamin A,” he explained. He further appealed to dealers of the product to stop patronising smugglers of the product, adding that “If you import vegetable oil from the United States to Nigeria for instance, you know the US probably do not have the issue of vitamin A deficiency so that will not be fortified and for us it is not acceptable.  So the fact that it is coming from a good country like that, but it is not the standard for Nigeria so we don’t accept that.” He also warned against the transportation of products with any type of truck or plastic containers aside from the ones approved by the Federal Government. Sherif further raised the alarm over the adulteration of palm oil saying that the fact that palm oil was red does not make it safe.   “We are trying to tell them that they should not artificially import colours in the oils especially colours that are not food-grade colours like oxidized and that is a major concern because oxidize are things that can cause cancer, liver and kidney damage. “So when you consume these things they are not meant for the food they are meant to dye our clothes, so the colours used for cakes and ice cream are food colours they can be used for foods but there is no need for you to want to colour palm oil because the colour is not of any nutritional value, the nutritional aspect of it is in the oil itself so the colour does not necessarily mean it is more nutritious, “he stated. He warned against the use of any container as many of them may have been used to store dangerous chemicals like sniper, diesel, petrol and different type of chemicals that are not supposed to be consumed. The issue of containers is key; they should not use any kind of containers.” Speaking on food safety, he advised Nigerians to demand oil that is well labelled.   Please don’t buy any oil that cannot be traced, where it is coming from, even if it has a label and it  is telling you funny address, you should be able to tell the proper location address, batch number, expiration date, NAFDAC registration number e.t.c.”