LAGOS – The National Assembly has promised to assist the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) to resuscitate the abandoned Metallurgical Science Laboratory it acquired over eight years ago. Mr. Nnolim Nnaji, the chairman House Committee on Aviation, gave the assurance at the Murtala Muhamed Airport (MMA), Lagos when the committee visited the facilities of the bureau. He also commended the accident and incident investigating body for its achievements in the last three years. He said: “The committee will ensure it relocates the lab from its present location to another location. We will continuously partner with AIB on this issue.” On the multi-modal bill before the National Assembly, Nnaji assured that the committee would facilitate the passage of the bill that would give the agency the power to investigate marine, rail and aviation accidents and incidents. He further stated that the House would assist the bureau to tackle inadequate funding, but noted that this was not restricted to AIB. He observed that AIB had done well for establishing the data retrieval system and for assisting other countries to build to laboratories and commended the leadership for also helping Gambia, to set up its own accident investigation body. Earlier, Engr. Akin Olateru, the commissioner of AIB lamented the poor state of its laboratory in Abuja. Olateru enumerated the agency’s achievements since he was appointed in 2017, one of which was the re-engineering of the Flight Safety Laboratory in Abuja, which according to him is among the best in the world and first in Africa. He said that other countries had been approaching AIB Nigeria to assist them in accident investigation, adding that the present AIB management led by him reviewed of AIB manual. He told the visiting committee that the plan of the agency for the future was to establish Emergency Satellite Mobile Office, pursue the multimodal system accident investigation bill, which was before the National Assembly. He also informed the committee that the agency was investing on drones to take pictures at crash site and also carry out mapping of the site to make the accident and incident investigation seamless in the event of any mishap.