Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of Transport and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this interview speaks on latest developments in the party and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: Chief Olabode George, a former deputy national chairman of the party, recently accused the national chairman, Uche Secondus of highhandedness in the handling of party affairs, especially as it relates to the Lagos PDP, and recently former Jigawa governor, Sule Lamido accused former President Goodluck Jonathan of trading off Bayelsa State, what does all these disagreements portend for the party? It doesn’t speak well of our party. Olabode George was correct. Look at what they have done in Lagos. They have installed mediocrity in Lagos. They have installed mediocrity and they are playing the game that mediocre can now have the day. Bode George was correct. I hope Uche Secondus can learn very fast and correct all these things, so that we can play effective role in the country and give the country a virile opposition. In order words, you agree that Secondus is being highhanded in administering the party? Well, I am not going to say that. But I am going to say that Bode George was correct to say that Secondus has not been able to play the game well. The loss of Kogi and Bayelsa is something, which is not helping the situation at all. It is something, which is very baffling to the mind; something which is offensive to the ear; something that can make somebody to cry. That is why I am worried if we don’t tighten our belts and ensure we win the coming elections in Ondo State, and also Edo State, then we are in for it in this country. How would you react to Sule Lamido accusation against former President Jonathan? I think we should be very careful about that. I don’t think Goodluck Ebele Jonathan will just sign off Bayelsa and say we should lose there. We must examine the issue very clearly. Seriake Dickson is a young man I like very much. And he has been playing the game very well. I want us to be very careful. Jonathan cannot just sign the state away. We should find ways and means we can reconcile all these things and make sure that we bring them together so that we can face the future with hope and with courage. Your party caucus in the House of Representatives has been crisis-ridden since the inception of this Assembly, and the leadership has not been able to resolve it… It portends very badly for all of us. I think Secondus should ensure that we support Elumelu. And ensure that he succeeds. He is doing very well there. Why is anybody raising any opposition of any kind against him? Let’s ensure that we support him. I want to appeal to Uche Secondus, he should let us support Elumelu and to ensure Elumelu leads us to the Promised Land. We should not jump the gun. And we should not do things in a way that will frustrate the efforts of Elumelu in the House. He is doing very well. After the verdict of the Supreme Court on the presidential poll, one is surprised that the party has not called a NEC meeting to take an overview of these issues and chart the way forward for the party? They have to be careful so that they don’t call a NEC that will break the party. I agree with Uche Secondus that we should take our time so that they will not break the party. We should systematically work towards rectifying all abnormally within the party and ensure that the party is put in proper perspective before they can call for a NEC meeting. I can’t blame Uche Secondus for that. We should be very careful, so that we don’t have issues. Does that mean there are discontents within the party? A party will not be a party without some level of discontents. All I know is that if we bid our time very well and then we play the game very well, we are going to surmount all the difficulties and ensure that we move ahead positively to embrace progress and success in all we do. Are you not bothered that some state chapters of your party particularly in the Southwest are in crises? We are going to be okay. I have no fear about that. Luckily we have a governor in Oyo State, who is level headed; I am talking about Seyi Makinde, who is going to achieve something for the party. What we should do in the Southwest is to make sure that we support Seyi Makinde leadership and ensure that no force on earth pulls him off. When we do that then we are preparing the ground for the party to move ahead and ensure that we have peace. And with the way the Buhari administration is going, unless the PDP guards its loins, unless the PDP puts itself together, we are going to be destroyed. The APC said that the PDP is not giving the needed opposition, do you agree with the ruling party? Well, they can arrive at any conclusion of their choice, but I must confess that the PDP is not offering effective opposition. No, we are not. That is the truth. We are not. I hope that eventually, we are going to change, Uche Secondus (PDP national chairman) should change gear and lead the PDP to give effective opposition; we are not playing it. It is correct, if they say we are not able to do so. I hope eventually one day, we will be able to play that role.