Abuja  – Yekini Nabena, APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, has claimed that the aspiration of Heineken Lokpobiri, a governorship aspirant in Bayelsa State, to upstage governor-elect, David Lyon, via the court has the full backing of two governors from the North. Nabena said the two governors of the ruling party were using the former minister to anchor their foothold in Niger Delta in furtherance of their 2023 political ambitions, warning the governors to steer clear of Bayelsa and Niger Delta politics. Nabena was short of naming the two northern APC governors, but threatened to name and shame them should they continue to disturb the peace of the state and region for their selfish ambitions. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Sunday, the APC chieftain disclosed that the said governors were using Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, one of the APC governorship aspirants in Bayelsa State, to cause disaffection in the state. Recall that Lokpobiri has been in court where he is challenging the emergence of Lyon as candidate of the APC (and eventual winner) in the November 16 governorship poll in Bayelsa. He has also asked the court to declare him the rightful candidate for the APC in the election. He said: “It is common knowledge that Senator Heineken Lokpobiri has refused to congratulate and identify with the governor-elect of Bayelsa State, Chief David Lyon, after his landslide election victory. “Lokpobiri has refused to drop his misplaced and ill-advised legal action taken against the APC and David Lyon with the hope of acquiring the Bayelsa governorship mandate with the support of his sponsors. “After the Bayesla governorship election, stakeholders have had several meetings where Lokpobiri’s sponsors were identified as two northern governors which I am not disposed to name for political reasons. “Depending on the zoning arrangements adopted by the APC for the 2023 presidency, the governors are positioning themselves by scheming to control Bayelsa State through Lokpobiri and then use that as a springboard into other South South states. “I will not dwell on the political power play among APC leaders of the South South for the soul of the region ahead of 2023. “However, my strong advice for the governors is that they should focus on the development of their states and not meddle in the affairs of Bayelsa State and the South South. “Bayelsa State and other oil-producing states of the South South enjoy fragile peace as a result of the commendable efforts of the President Muhammadu Buhari government to develop the zone and productively engage the youth. “We will not allow anybody to disrupt the peace of Bayelsa State in furtherance of their selfish political interests. President Buhari is a stickler for democratic principles and the rule of law, we all must follow these principles. “Chief David Lyon emerged as the popular APC governorship candidate and went ahead to overwhelmingly win the Bayelsa governorship election. “It is Heineken Lokpobiri’s constitutional right to approach the court, even if his case has no merit. But I think it is important to let the world know that Heineken Lokpobiri’s actions are sponsored by outsiders in furtherance of their political interests ahead of 2023.”