Yenagoa – Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has accused his Rivers State counterpart, Governor Nyesom Wike, of inciting ethnic disharmony in Ijaw land in pursuit of a wicked and clandestine ethnic supremacist agenda in the politics of Rivers State. Governor Dickson, during a live media chat in Yenagoa on Saturday night, said the Rivers State governor was merely using the disputed oil wells between the two sister states as a subterfuge to create disunity and to cover up the deliberate underdevelopment of Ijaw communities in Rivers State by pretending to be their champion. Governor Dickson dismissed his Rivers State counterpart’s comments on the disputed oil wells as reckless, childish, and uncivilised with an evil intent to attack age-long bonds among brothers. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary, Fidelis Soriwei, quoted the governor as having said that Governor Nyesom Wike’s vituperations and unwholesome behaviour towards him and the people of Bayelsa could no longer be condoned after years of restraint. The governor, who said he had been restraining himself from responding to the unprovoked and unguarded remarks and excesses of Gov Wike out of respect for the Rivers people over the years, warned Wike to stop seeing Bayelsa as an annex of his political empire. Dickson, who dismissed Wike’s claim that Bayelsa was laying ownership claim to Soku, explained that while Soku was a Kalabari (Ijaw) community in Rivers State, the disputed oil wells were located in Oluasiri, Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa. He said that Ijaw leaders like him had made sustained efforts to forge solid bonds of unity among the people which people like Wike and their cohorts could not destroy. Governor Dickson said he led a pan-Ijaw agenda which had culminated in the building of solid bonds of unity across the six states to which the Ijaws are indigenous which Wike considered a threat to him. He stressed that this existing bond of unity represented by the indomitable Ijaw spirit could not be threatened or broken by Wike and his ilk no matter how hard they tried. He said further that Wike’s reckless expansionist agenda had led him to start needless wars with all the neighbouring states of Imo, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, and more to come to the detriment of the unity of the Niger Delta and the South South which is so critical to the zone at this time. He said judging from Wike’s needless antagonism towards him and Bayelsans over the years and his recent unprovoked outburst concerning an area with a very volatile history, it remained an issue of grave concern to Bayelsans and indeed the Rivers people that their governor lacked the capacity to appreciate the grave implications of his intemperate outbursts and actions. He also referred to the Supreme Court decision on the issue that directed the National Boundary Commission to carry out a fresh delineation and demarcation exercise in the affected area. Governor Dickson reminded Wike of how the Rivers delegation, led by its deputy governor at the time, Engr. Tele Ikuru, pulled out of the exercise in 2013. He called on the Ijaws in Rivers State not to fall for the antics of Gov Wike to destroy the long standing relationship between them and their kith and kin in Bayelsa, adding that there was no intention to annex any part of Kalabari land and any other place. He said: “The good people of Rivers State should not be preys in the hands of Wike who wants to promote disunity and hatred in ijaw land because he is promoting an ethnic supremacist political agenda in the state. “And I want that recorded, that Governor Wike is deliberately inciting disunity in Ijaw land because of his ethnic supremacist political agenda which he knows that Bayelsa, particularly Governor Dickson and my agenda will not support. That’s what he’s doing.” Governor Dickson also used the opportunity of the media chat to react to Wike’s allegation and scathing remarks that he visited the Amanyanabo of Kalabari without following protocol. He explained that he visited the foremost traditional ruler in April 2019 to condole with the people on the killing of Ijaw sons and daughters of the area during Wike’s own gubernatorial election. He noted that he made sustained efforts to contact Wike without success and directed his Chief of Staff and the ADC to speak to their counterparts in Rivers who promised to inform his boss of the impending trip, which they did. He stressed that any governor of Bayelsa State and leader from the Ijaw nation did not require Governor Wike’s permission to visit Ijaw traditional rulers, leaders, and elders in Port Harcourt or any part of Rivers State for any purpose whatsoever. The governor said he planned to lead other Ijaw leaders to participate in any activity that might be put in place to celebrate the foremost monarch, the Amanyanabo of Kalabari, who would turn 90 in January 2020. He said that while it was normal protocol where relationships are cordial with people behaving normally to extend courtesies, such conditions could not apply in an abnormal environment encouraged by Wike over years. “The governor of our neighbouring state, Governor Wike of Rivers State, who by the way is used to making careless and very childish remarks from time to time, went into his usual habit some few days ago. “Let me put it on record, this is the first time I will formally respond to Wike’s childishness in this formal way. I have always ignored with pain and regret all the previous vituperations and his attempt to belittle and intimidate this state and our leadership.”