ABUJA – The Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC) has said that the push for adoption electronic voting as part of ongoing legal reforms being considered will take into consideration literacy level in parts of the country, appropriate technology, available infrastructure in parts of the country, cyber security, environmental factors, procurement issues among others. While the commission envisages the electronic transmission of result is possible in 2023 elections, it says the dynamic nature of electronic voting technologies would necessitate a well thought out and phased deployment of such technologies. Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee made the disclosure at the presentation he made at a programme organised by Policy and Advocacy Centre (PLAC) in Abuja. He said the commission will send its proposal for amendment of the Electoral Act to the national assembly, drawing from good recommendations that may come from civil society groups like PLAC but will however not  share or cede its powers as provided in the constitution “The Commission will propose the review of the Proviso to section 31 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended). The Commission is a creation of the constitution and is duty bound to give effect to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). “The Commission will be shirking its constitutional and regulatory powers if it cannot enforce the qualifying threshold in section 177 and 187 of the Constitution and other equivalent provisions. “The implication is that the Commission can close its eyes to the nomination of non-Nigerians and infants by political parties to contest governorship and other elections. The Commission will robustly and expansively implement and interpret its powers within the compass of constitutionally allowed window. Okoye said the aspect of the Electoral Act that delimit it from having a say in the result collated and declared by the returning officers will also be amended to forestall situation where contestants obtain victory by duress. “The Commission will also make proposals that will clarify and strengthen its powers in relation to declaration and returns by collation and returning officers. Declarations and Returns must be made voluntarily and not through duress and other unwholesome practices.” “To this extent, the Commission must retain the discretion to take urgent and remedial actions in clear cases of the violation of its regulations and guidelines in the conduct of elections. Declaring that the Smart Card Reader has come to stay, he however disclosed that INEC will seek amendment of article 49 of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended to incorporate as basis for verification, accreditation and proving over voting.” “The Commission will therefore seek the incorporation of the Smart Card Reader in section 49 of the Electoral Act, 2010(as amended). The individuals holding the Permanent Voters Cards must be the ones voting and not the cards. The Smart Card Reader is now part of our national asset and the Commission will not allow any individual or groups to undermine it. Rather, the Commission will guard it jealously and make for its robust usage. He said that the new proposal will seek to give the commission the exclusive powers to determine the deployment of technology in electoral process. “The Commission must be the major driver in the introduction of new technologies in our electoral process. “Electronic voting systems are dynamic and the appropriate time for the introduction of each aspect must be clearly thought out taking into consideration the appropriate technology, the state of infrastructure in the different parts of the country, environmental issues, cyber security matters, procurement challenges, the level of literacy in the country and other sundry matters. “We believe that Electronic Collation of Results(E-Collation) and Transmission of Results(E-Transmission) are possible and achievable in the 2023 election. “The Commission will continue to improve the electoral system through the adoption of new election technologies where feasible and relevant, and will, in all cases, examine the viability and relevance of such technologies before adoption. “Towards these, the legal framework for the adoption of such technologies would be the first most important step before any other steps. “We acknowledge the introduction of a bill to establish an Election Offences Commission and Tribunal and state unequivocally that we support it. Our country must break the cycle of impunity in the electoral process and bring to justice the violators of the sovereign right of the people to clean elections”. INEC therefore urged PLAC and other civil society groups to critically  examine aspects of the Constitution and the Electoral Act, 2010(as amended) that will strengthen the electoral legal framework and enhance the power of the vote. “It is also important to emphasis the collective nature of electoral reform, and draw attention to the fact that electoral reforms should not end at the level of retooling the legal framework, but should also extend to attitudinal issues bordering on curbing impunity and the development of a culture of tolerance and sportsmanship” he said.