ABUJA – The Federal Government yesterday announced that it collected N45.8 billion as proceeds from stamp duty as of December 13, 2019. Barr. Bisi Adegbuyi, Post Master General/Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) revealed this at an interactive session with newsmen in Abuja. Adegbuyi insisted that the collection of stamp duty by NIPOST is the statutory duty of the postal agency, as clearly stated in the Stamp Duty Act, adding that stamp duty is supposed to be one of the major revenue earners for the government for infrastructural development. He said the Office of the Accountant General had also issued a circular to NIPOST on the collection of both physical and electronic stamp duty of N50, maintaining that there is no conflict between NIPOST and the Federal Inland Revenue Service(FIRS) in the collection of stamp duty. The Post Master General of NIPOST disclosed that a committee has been constituted to audit banks that collect stamp duty to ensure that actual amount collected by them is remitted to the stamp duty account, domiciled in the Federation Account. He assured that the NIPOST management and staff were irrevocably committed to ensuring that the present administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari delivers on its mandate to the citizenry, in line with Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). To ensure efficient service delivery, he said plans were underway to ensure partial commercialisation of NIPOST, adding that it would be one of the major cardinal mandates of NIPOST in 2020. He noted that already National Council on Privitisation had commenced work on the partial commercialisation of NIPOST, adding that the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) had also appointed a world class advisor to realise the objective. In the proposed partial commercialisation, he allayed the fear that no staff of NIPOST would be relieved of his job; rather new jobs would be created upon completion of the exercise. As part of his plans to ensure total turnaround of the post offices across the country, Adegbuyi vowed to ensure automation of all NIPOST services as well as digitally transform the organisation. According to him, “I am setting an agenda for the new NIPOST which is beyond mail delivery. It would render services that would touch the lives of all Nigerians. “There will be bonding. Government will realise that it has a parastatal it can use to reach the people, especially our people who live in the rural areas for communication and delivery of social economic development.”