Samuel Ogidan; Jide Oyekunle Abuja – A human rights activist, Deji Adeyanju, was on Monday attacked and brutalised in Abuja by pro-government activists when he led a protest tagged #FreedomRally to call for an end to the reign of impunity and the release of all prisoners of conscience. Adeyanju, alongside other human rights activists and members of the civil society organisations, had gathered at the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to call on the commission to be on the side of the citizens to ensure the release of all detained activists and prisoners of conscience across the country. Trouble started when a rival group emerged with placards bearing inscriptions such as ‘We Shall Defend Our Mandate @ All Cost, NHRC Steer Clear of Issues With Dire National Security Implication’. The group descended on the #FreedomRally protesters, chasing and hitting Adeyanju with iron rods and dangerous objects. Armed policemen who were on the ground to forestall possible breakdown of law and order made little or no effort to stop the thugs from unleashing terror on the activists. Adeyanju, who later escaped the scene, was said to have been taken to the Maitama General Hospital for treatment. One of the attackers, who was said to have been arrested by the police, was later released. A coalition of civil society groups two weeks ago gave a 14-day ultimatum to President Muhammadu Buhari to respect the rule of law and release all activists who were in detention. The group said the shrinking media and civic space in the country called for concern and that Nigerians needed to rise against unpopular actions of the government. The group condemned the attacks on the judiciary and free speech which, it said, were aimed at silencing dissent. The group asked the president to show accountability as commander-in-chief and address the nation on his commitment to the rule of law and human rights. The coalition also asked the government to obey all pending court orders and commence the investigation of the officer who violated protocols in the second arrest of Omoyele Sowore. The groups included Amnesty International, Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), the Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), Enough Is Enough (EIE), Concerned Nigerians, and the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC). Others were Amnesty International, Global Rights, and Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP). A spokesman for the National Human Rights Commission also called on the government to respect court rulings. “The position of the commission has always been, and still is, that all law enforcement agencies, government and even individuals should act within the law, obey the rules of law at all times,” director of information, Lambert Opara, said. Isa Sanusi, a spokesman for Amnesty International, which helped organise the protest, said the incident showed that Nigerians “no longer have the right to come out and express themselves peacefully without being attacked”. A government supporter, Ibrahim Kabiru Dala, was quoted as saying: “We are here to commend the government of President Muhammadu Buhari and the security personnel … we will not allow any other foreign mercenaries or opposition to come and sabotage the government.” PDP Condemns Violent Attack On Protesters Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday condemned the violent attack on Nigerians by hoodlums, allegedly sponsored by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration, while peacefully protesting the widespread abuse of human rights in the country. The party said that such attack on Nigerians holding a protest within their constitutionally guaranteed rights points to nothing but the furtherance of the suppressive plot. The party insisted that the ruling government is out to subjugate Nigerians, foist a siege mentality on the citizenry and force them to surrender to a repressive rule. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “The world watched with shock as hoodlums chanting the ‘sai baba’ slogan, known with supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC, violently descended on citizens peacefully protesting at the Nigerian Human Rights Commission (NHRC) complex in Abuja, with dangerous weapons and abducted protesters in the full glare of security operatives.” The PDP called on Nigerians to note how hoodlums were recruited to mask an orchestrated tyrannical design to subdue constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech and opinion in the country. “By their chants, the public is not in doubt as to whose interest the hoodlums were deployed to serve by attacking Nigerians who were protesting the violation of rights in our country. “The burden now lies at the doorstep of the APC and the Buhari administration. Our party challenges them to come out clean on this matter,” PDP said. The party reminded the APC and its administration to note that Nigeria is a democratic state governed by law and that such reprehensible designs against the citizens can only be a recipe for civil unrest and anarchy. The PDP also called on the security agencies to save the nation from a civil unrest by immediately arresting and prosecuting the culprits as well as providing adequate security for Nigerians exercising their civic rights, including the right to peaceful protest.