Prince Dapo Abiodun, the Ogun State governor, has charged public servants in the state to brace up for the challenges of statecraft in the New Year. According to the governor, there would be more serious tasks in the coming year that would put serious demands on their moral, intellectual and management competencies. Abiodun gave the charge at the send forth programme organised for the retired Head of Service (HoS) in the state, Lanre Bisiriyu, and 11 Permanent Secretaries at the Arcade Ground, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. He said for the state to experience rapid development, public servants must be more dedicated and professional to face the challenges ahead. The governor said his administration remained irrevocably committed to good governance for the continued development of the state and individual prosperity, irrespective of age, gender or status. He added that workers’ welfare would continue to receive priority to further guarantee industrial harmony in the state. “Let me in a special way acknowledge the entire civil and public servants for their support and cooperation since the inception of this administration. I must state that all that we have achieved in the last six months is no doubt largely due to dedication, commitment and diligence that our civil and public servants have exhibited,” he said. In his remark, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Olatokunbo Talabi, eulogised the retired HoS for helping to stabilise the administration through his wise counsel and strict adherence to political neutrality. Bisiriyu, in his valedictory speech, lauded the government for involving the people in its building the future together agenda. Meanwhile, the governor has appointed Mrs. Amope Ajibola Chokor as the new Head of Service in the state. Until her appointment, Chokor (nee Bankole) was Permanent Secretary in the State Civil Service Commission. A statement by Kunle Somorin, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Abiodun said: “The Ogun State Government, under Governor Abiodun knows that TPL Chokor, who has proven over the years to understand the system, would put to use her vast knowledge in the management of the State Civil Service and also maintain the high standard that the service is known for”.