Senator Ayo Fasanmi is a nonagenarian politician of note and pharmacist by profession. He was a Second Republic senator and chieftain of the Yoruba Socio-Cultural Group, Afenifere. In this interview with select journalists, he speaks on his background, his journey in Nigeria politics, state of the nation regarding corruption among other sundry issues. Excerpts: You celebrated your 94th birthday few weeks ago , how do you feel? I couldn’t have believed that I will reach 94 years in my life because I had some health challenges when I was a very young man. As a matter of fact, when I was contesting for election into the House of Representatives in 1964, I had some health challenges and I was directed to see a doctor. When the doctor examined me, he warned me over what he discovered. I told him I have been running around because I want to contest for election in the House of Representatives. The man shook his head and said ‘No, if you keep running around like this, you have only four months to live’. That was 64 years ago. God has been very kind to me to be alive till today. I contested that election and won. I clocked 94 on 27th of September. How was your childhood years? I was born in Lagos and I started schooling at St Paul School, Ebute Meta in 1931. When I got to standard one, in the 1935 or 1936, because of poverty, I could no longer continue with my schooling, as a young man of about 11 years, I started working as a labourer – moulding bricks in Yaba. My parents were poor. My mother was born in Ijero Ekiti and my father was born in Iyin Ekiti. I grew up under them in extreme poverty. A Good Samaritan, the uncle of my farther, Pa Williams Fasanmi met me when he came to see my father and saw me carrying bricks on my head since I didn’t go to school because my parent couldn’t afford the school fees. The man took me from Lagos to Ibadan in March 31st 1937 and I started schooling afresh. I remember one of my classmates both in Lagos and when I move to Ibadan was late Chief Kola Balogun. The man was transferred to Offa and I followed him and continued my schooling at St. Marks School Offa. I was in Offa in 1937, 1938 and 1939. My uncle was transferred to Kafanchan. I had to follow him. I went to school in Kafachan but before the end of the year, for one reason or the other, I had to return to Offa to continue my schooling. As at that time, standard 6 was the limit in primary school and I finished in 1941. Then, there was an advertisement in the newspapers that the examination into Government College Ibadan was going to take place to wards the end of 1941. I was very lucky, I did very well and I won the Government Scholarship. I entered Government College Ibadan in 1942. Because of bitter experience I had as a result of poverty. When I entered Government College, I started developing ideas, I had taken some quote that any time I had the opportunity to do so, will fight poverty, I wouldn’t want anybody to have it the type of experience I had as a small boy. It was around that time Nnamdi Azikwe founded West African Pilot. The West African Pilot was like a Bible to me. In Government College, I was staying in the boarding but because of West African Pilot, I had to manage my way out of the college to get a copy of West African Pilot and I started reading. I read a lot from newspapers and I was developing political ideas. Before I left Government College in 1947, I became so much interested in politics as a young man and given the background of poverty that I had, I made up my mind that if I had any opportunity in my life, I will defend the interest of common man. When I finished from the college, I wanted to be a lawyer but there was no faculty of Law at the University of Ibadan then. So, I saw in an advertisement again in the newspaper about School of Pharmacy Yaba and I took entrance examination and passed. I finished from that school and became a pharmacist. What about your working experience? When I left the school of pharmacy, I worked at General hospital Lagos. In 1951, I was posted to Jericho hospital Ibadan and I was also posted to General hospital Osogbo here. There was only one General hospital in the whole of Osogbo division and Ogbomoso then and I was in charge of the pharmacy section of the hospital. In 1955, I resigned and decided to establish my own pharmacy at Fagbewesa Street in Osogbo. I named it Bamidupe Chemist. In 1956, I got some money and I went to UK to study law. But due to an unfortunate event in the family, my father was involved in an accident, I had to return home after spending a year and that was how my ambition to study law and become a lawyer crashed and I went back to my pharmacy which someone was managing for me when I away. How did you get yourself in politics? As a student, I was a member of Nnamidi Azikiwe’s movement. Later, we founded the Nigeria Youth Congress. When Chief Obafemi Awolowo came into the show with the Action Group, I was so endeared to his role. There was an occasion I was addressing crowd at May Day event and I declared there that I was an independent member of Action Group. When Chief Awolowo heard my statement on radio, he sent a letter to me that he wanted to meet me. That was how I met Awolowo one on one and he asked me that how can someone be an independent member of Action Group?. I said if the Action Group does something that is right, I will support the party and if it does something that is wrong, I will oppose the party since I’m not a card carrying member of the party. Awolowo said you will be a full member of the party. That was how I joined Action Group. When crisis started in Action Group between Awolowo and Chief Akintola, Awolowo appointed me as a member of National Reconciliation Committee. I had my political training with Chief Awolowo. We will be in the house brainstorming. One person may just asked to write a paper on freedom of press, free medical services and so on. Whatever the person came up it, we will all debate it. We were writing policy papers. So, I was a political apprentice under Chief Awolowo. Eventually, I became the National President of the National Youth Association of Action Group. During the treasonable felony trial of Chief Awolowo, I was in court as his witness and gave evidence for him. He was jailed ten years then. I moved into the House of Representatives in 1964. In 1966, the Coup of January 15 came accidentally, that Coup met me in detention. I have been in detention at Agodi for three months before that coup. I was detained in 1965. I was travelling out of Nigeria. I was going to Ghana to discuss certain issues with the leaders of Nkrumah’s party. After taking off, the plane descended again and when we got down, policemen surrounded the plane and took me. I was taken to Ibadan and detained there. So, the coup of the 1966 met me in detention in Agodi prison, Ibadan. In 1979, I contested election into senate in the Second Republic and I was in the senate till 1983. I contested for second term and won. We were in the Senate for six months before the coup that was organised by Muhammadu Buhari in 1983. In 1999, when we had the 3rd Republic, the Alliance for Democracy was founded in my house. Few of us started it before others like Bisi Akande joined us. We were about 15 when we founded the party. My house at Alekuwodo in Osogbo was used as the secretariat of the party. That was my journey in politics. Before the independence, I was a councillor in Ijero and Ero local governments. What was your experience as a senator? The Senate was good then. Joseph Wayas was the President of the Senate. The Senate Leader then, Senator Olusola Saraki, the father of Senator Bukola Saraki, the late Oloye was my good friend in the Senate despite that we were not from the same party. It was between 1979 and 1983. In fact, when Senator Sola Saraki came to Nigeria, he worked with my friend, Dr Tunji Otegbeye at Ireti hospital. As a matter of fact, the son, the immediate past Senate President was born at the Ireti hospital at Yaba in Lagos. In the Senate then, we worked together as a team. In the senate then, the pay was minimal. The system was not monetised. At a point, you were nominated as leader of Afenifere, what was your reaction to it? I accepted it. They came to me here in my house and told me that because of my antecedent, they want me to be the new leader of Afenifere. I was happy despite my health challenges, people still consider me to be the leader of Afenifere. God is wonderful and I thank Him for his mercies. I’m the leader of Afenifere now where you have people like Senator Biyi Durojaye from Ogun State, Prince Tajudeen Olusi from Lagos State, Elder Alade from Ekiti state, S.M. Akindele from Oyo, Professor Bayo Ademodi from (Ondo State), Chief Sooko Adewoyin from Osun State and many others. So, is there any formal process you need to undergo before you will be officially confirmed as leader of the group? The Progressive Party founded by late Chief Obafemi Awolowo which is today known as All Progressives Congress (APC) is the party of Afenifere and it is controlling five states Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Ogun and Lagos in the South West now, except Oyo, I’m the national leader and it is my hope that whatever difficulties that we might have, we should all come together. So, the leadership of Afenifere is under my firm control. How will you compare the politics of that time to politics of nowadays? That time, it was politics of service and dedication. Are you still playing politics? If I’m the leader of Afenifere which is the cultural arm of the progressive party, why won’t I play politics? I’m a member of APC. What’s your advice for today’s politicians? When you want to serve, you must be committed to serve the people and you must serve with dedication and commitment. If you are committed to serve the people selflessly, you will not be in politics to make money. In the 16 years of Peoples Democratic Party, there was serious corruption in Nigeria. President Buhari is now fighting the corruption following the footstep of Chief Obafemi Awolowo. But corruption is now fighting back. Awolowo introduced a new dimension to politics. Look at his achievements in the Western region update. The Best Stadium, First Television Station, Cocoa House, Free Education, Minimum wage. The system was not monetised and we were not corrupt. The current politicians should shun corruption. As a politician in my days, I was not amassing wealth and God has been very kind to me. What is your thought on the state of the nation? Corruption is very rampant but Buhari is fighting against it. The insecurity in the country is worrisome. Love for money among the youths is of great concern. Imagine people going to graveyards to dig up and beheading the corpses for rituals so as to become rich. Government must improve the quality of life of the citizens, keep Nigeria free from corruption, make everyone involve in security of the nation. There must be free or affordable education for all children. Sending a child to school now is very costly. Awolowo made education free. I understand that the young man in Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi is trying to make education free. According to late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, It is not life that matters most but the courage you put into it. Your wife died five years ago, how has it being without her since then? We got married in 1953. Felicia Adejoke Fasanmi was a good wife. She attended Queens College, Lagos and then she travelled to UK to study nursing. The marriage was blessed with children. The children are doing well. In Yoruba land, you don’t count someone’s children. They are all making it. My first born is a pharmacist. She was a lecturer in the University of Ife. She has been in the US for over 20 years. She came for the 5th remembrance of their mum. One of my children is a Chief Registrar of the High Court in Ekiti State. Others are also doing well.