Lagos – Chief Olabode George, a former deputy national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has said Nigeria would not become a great country if it kept using different laws to judge people, based on their position in the society. The Atona Oodua of Yorubaland said he wept for Nigeria when he heard Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), defending Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former Lagos State governor, over the bullion vans allegation levelled against him. Sagay, while speaking on the petition written against Tinubu, a national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), by some rights activists in which they asked the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the two bullion vans sighted in Tinubu’s residence on the eve of the 2019 presidential election, had said Tinubu was already wealthy before joining politics. “Tinubu was already very rich before he became governor. He is not a man who became rich after he joined the government. “All I know is that he is rich from his own hard work, investments, and, therefore, he should be given the benefit of the doubt instead of being subjected to the persecution which some people want him to be subjected to,” Sagay had said. However, speaking in an interview with Daily Independent, Bode George said Nigeria cannot move forward when some people were being treated as sacred cows in respect of corruption. “Somebody, during election, brought two bullion vans to his house and when Nigerians said, ‘why has this man not been investigated, then a man who is chairman of presidential committee on corruption, said: ‘Ah, he has been a very rich man before he joined politics’. “When I heard that statement, I cried for our beloved country. “Why are we cherry-picking on matters that are so open? Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have it thrust upon them. Are we all Nigerians where there are different laws for different people? That can never make us a great country. “In America, despite their ups and downs, nobody is above the law no matter how highly placed, including the president of the country. “For them, the law is the law. I can only talk now so that posterity can say I said my own.”