LOKOJA – In his determination to complement government’s effort to ensure food sufficiency, Idoko Joseph, the president of Stocks and Minas Agricultural Advocacy Networks Africa (SMAANA) has launched a 10,000 hectares for Oil palm plantations in Amaka , Igala Mela Odolu LGA in kogi state. The President, during the foundation laying ceremony over the weekend, noted that the SMAANA initiative is to bridge the wide gap of palm oil demands and the supply and to generate employment for the teeming youths of the country. Idoko disclosed that the recent ban on the importation of palm oil has placed responsibility on the local farmers to meet the shortfall, stressing that his initiative is to leverage on the opportunity to revolutionise palm oil production in the country. He explained that before the ban on the importation of palm oil, the country used to be a net importer of about 55% of her domestic use, causing several billions naira to be spent on importation to meet the shortfall .According to him” Every household of about five persons consume 96 liters of palm oil annually. We have 24 branded vegetable oils in the market and each brand contained 75% palm oil as ingredients and with the 175million estimated population of Nigeria and if multiply it by five persons per household, it will give you 35 million households , then multiply by 96 liters per annum will translate to 3,360, 000,metric tons per annum. “To meet this demand, we need a minimum of 750, 000 hectares of palm oil between 2019 to 2029 an equivalent of 75 hectares annually to cushion the effect of the embargo.” He informed He added that his SMAANA which is a non-governmental organisation for agricultural advocacy, has also designed a Tree crop expansion model known as Oil Palm Estate Partnership Investment Development Initiative ( OPESIDI) to complement government’s policies for the growth of tree crops in the country. He added that the Opesidi is determined to key into the Next Level Agenda of the Federal Government and the New Direction Agenda of the state government to create sustainable oil palm value chain. Idoko noted that a hectare of oil palm is capable of employing permanent six workers adding that his ten thousand hectares will translate to employing over 60, 000 permanent workers. He added that a hectare will equally produce 18 tons of fresh bunches per annum when milled under 18% extraction rate will produce six tons of special palm oil annually hinting that the 100 hectares of oil palm plantations rake in more revenue than a crude oil well.