The Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) has released the timetable for local government election in Enugu State. ENSIEC released the timetable, sequel to the expiration of tenure of all the elected council officials, comprising of chairmen, deputy chairmen and councilors, on Wednesday. According to the timetable, signed by Dr Mike Ajogwu (SAN), Chairman of ENSIEC, local government elections will hold across 17 local government areas in Enugu State on February 29, 2020, to elect chairmen, deputy chairmen and councilors for the 260 wards in the state. According to the timetable for election obtained by our correspondent on Wednesday, dated December 4, 2019, the local government elections will hold across the state on February 29. The timetable read further: “15th-22nd January: Political party primaries geared towards selection of candidates for elections are to be prepared and submitted to Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission with timetable specifying particularly, time, days, venues for primaries. No two or more political parties are allowed to hold their primaries at the same time, day or venue. “Political parties are to obtain nomination forms, ENSIEC 7 and ENSIEC 7A for chairmanship and councillorship elections respectively on 23rd and 28th January 2020. Nomination forms shall be completed and returned on or before 28th January 2020 by all political parties. “29th to 30th January 2020, list of candidates nominated by political parties shall be forwarded to headquarters of Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission, No.3 Achi Street, Independence Layout Enugu. “31st January-3rd February, 2020, checking of candidates credential; councillorship candidates shall be checked at various local government headquarters while chairmanship candidates shall be checked at Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission Headquarters, No.3 Achi Street, Independence Layout Enugu. The list of qualified and unqualified candidates would be published February 8 to February 10, 2020, while parties are allowed to effect replacement of unqualified candidates from February 11 to 13. Political parties are allowed to campaign from February 5 to February 27. The local government election holds on February 29, 2020.