ABUJA – The upper chamber of the National Assembly yesterday adjourned sitting to Tuesday January 28, 2020 for the Christmas and New Year celebration. In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan promised that Nigeria’s economy will witness significant boost next year. This is even as the Senate passed N278.3 billion budget for Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Lawan said that the passage of the 2020 Budget by the National Assembly and its prompt assent by President Muhammadu Buhari will have significant impact on the country’s economy starting from January next year. He said the inflow of disbursed funds as a result of Nigeria’s return to the January – December budget cycle will see to the injection of resources by government starting in January 2020. “One thing stands out clear; this ninth Senate is prepared to change Nigeria for the better. “For passing the 2020 budget before the end of December, for the President to sign the budget before the end of December, and for the budget to start taking effect from 1st January, definitely the Nigerian economy will see significant changes, because the inflow of the disbursement of funds by government will be an injection of some resources into the economy. “This is something that was not available previously. We believe that the executive has a role to ensure that the 2020 budget is implemented fully as much as our resources can accommodate,” Lawan said. On the FCT budget, the Senate President said, “as the State Assembly of the FCT, we have discharged our responsibility. The next thing is for FCT to ensure that it implements the budget. “I will on behalf of all of us, urge the Committee on FCT to be steadfast and ensure that what we have passed here is what is implemented. “We will work together with the executive arm to ensure we get those revenues that are supposed to fund the budget that we have passed. “I believe that in this regard, we will not allow the FCT Administration not to do what is acceptable. We must ensure that this FCT is reclaimed, because there are so many things that are not going right. “We need to ensure that the FCT is safe, that residents and visitors alike come in here and do their businesses safely in a very secured environment. “This is supposed to be the most secured city in Nigeria, because this is the seat of government. “If we are not able to provide that security that befits the status of the FCT, the story outside of Nigeria will not be good for the country. “I believe that we have done our job, and what is left is for FCT to take up its responsibility to ensure that this budget is implemented,” Lawan added. While calling on Committees of the National Assembly to beam its light on revenue generating agencies, Lawan charged the legislature on oversight to ensure that government spending are consistent with implementation of the 2020 budget