Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo, the Osun State governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, former Heads of State, Generals Yakubu Gowon and Abdulsalami Abubakir, have charged Nigerians on selfless service to humanity, describing it as ‘ultimate’ to national development and nation building. They implored Nigerians to imbibe philanthropic spirit by dedicating their wealth and resources to the service God and to impact positively on the lives of others. The four eminent Nigerians spoke on Saturday at the unveiling and dedication of Owa Ofokutu (Memorial) Ecumenical Centre (OOFEC), in Ilesa, Osun State. Owa Ofokutu, was the paramount ruler of Ijesa land from 1842-1856, and the edifice was built, donated and dedicated in his memory by Professor Debo Adeyemi of Ofokutu’s royal family. Osinbajo, who was represented by the Chaplain, State House, Abuja, Pastor Seyi Malomo, called on Nigerians to promote unity, love and togetherness. The vice president, who described unity as central to development, said Nigerians must begin to see strength in their diversity. In his remarks, Abubakar described the good gesture of the donor as phenomenal and worthwhile, even as he advocated the need for Nigerians to renew their faith in God by rededicating themselves to service humanity. On his part, Gowon urged Nigerians to emulate the good gesture of the donor, stressing that the dedication of the buildings to the service of humanity was an affirmation to biblical verses. He urged the people of Ijesa land and its environs to put the facilities to good use. Inaugurating the edifice, Oyetola urged Nigerians to focus on things that could strengthen the bond of unity, imploring well-spirited Nigerians, irrespective of their religious beliefs and persuasions, to emulate the motive and the noble initiative that could strengthen the ties of unity in the country. While commending the donor and the entire family of Owa Ofokutu royal family for dedicating the edifice to the glory of God and to the service of humanity, Oyetola said, “This is a commendable community service. I, therefore, call on other wealthy individuals to emulate this gesture.” The donor, Professor Debo Adeyemi, attributed the gesture to divine inspiration from God, even as he urged Nigerians, particularly the rich, to always share their blessings and wealth with others since they could not enjoy their wealth while the majority suffer.