ABUJA – A coalition of civil societies in the south east, the Igbo Leadership Development Foundation(ILDF) and its allies, yesterday unveiled plans to organise what it terms the Great Debate for national unity centred on Restructuring and Rotation of Presidential Power in Nigeria. The group also said that the move ultimately will be to persuade the rest of the country that the South East is ready to present a presidential candidate acceptable to all Nigerians. According to the coalition in communiqué signed at the end of a press briefing in Abuja, the country still faces crisis of governance. “Regrettably, our dear country Nigeria is still facing challenges of national unity, integration and development. These challenges are borne out of the fact that the structure of the country and mode of governance have remained too dysfunctional, forcing most indices of development to stubbornly persist on the negative side,” they said in a statement signed by Dr. Godwin I. Udibe, Dr. Law Mefor, Dr. Emeka Okengwu, Nze Elvis Agukwe, Dr. Ifedi Okwenna, Comrade Auston Ifedinezi, all conveners of the coalition. The group also impressed it on the public that the standard rotational presidency practices in the country need to be adhered to. When the nation returned to democratic governance in 1999, a convention was struck on rotation of power between North and South Nigeria and between their zones, the group said. “This has led to the production of two Presidents from the North West of the country and one from South West and one from South South, leaving out the South East and the North East in the equation. “We also believe that in the same spirit of rotation, presidential power needs to return to South in 2023, and particularly to the South East since it is the only zone yet produce a President for the country in the present dispensation from the Southern divide,” ILDF said. It further added that the convening of the group was as result of the clarion call made by President Muhammadu Buhari on the need for the South East to organise themselves ahead producing a viable candidate to contest the presidency. “Our group recalls that President Muhammadu Buhari, in his maiden media chat, challenged the South East people to organise and assert their rights within an indivisible, indissoluble Nigeria. We also note that the five States in the South East will not make anyone from there Nigerian President. In fact, the Constitution requires a spread of at least 25% in at least in 24 States to produce a Nigeria President.