The Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA),  the umbrella body of private sector employers in Nigeria, has in a letter addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari, expressed its concerns on the Nigeria Tax and Fiscal Law (Amendment Bill) otherwise called Finance Bill 2019. NECA also commended the Buhari-led government for demonstrating its initiative on the bill, especially as it seeks to, among others; amend the Companies Income Act, Value Added Tax, Customs and Excise Act, Personal Income Tax, Capital Gains Tax, Stamp Duties Act and the Petroleum Profit Tax. The association commended the government over the move to amend the bill, particularly as it would support Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) through applicable tax reductions. It noted that the move, when consummated, “would go a long way in lifting a huge percentage of the Nigerian populace out of poverty.” The association however, noted that in a situation where the two chambers of the National Assembly passed the bill, the president should not hesitate to decline assent on some of its aspects, which it said it had identified to be grey areas and retrogressive. In the same vein, it expressed its displeasure on the increase of VAT rate arguing that “The bill seeks to amend the provisions of Section 4 of the Value Added Tax Act in a bid to increase the rate of VAT from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent as provided in Section 36 of the proposed bill.  The letter added: “The increase in VAT rate is unacceptable and coming at a time when Nigerians are still struggling with economy ic hardships. If allowed, the benefits of the recently signed National Minimum Wage of N30,000 would be neutralized and further reduce the purchasing power of the citizens, leading to increase in price of goods and services, resulting in upward movement of the inflation rate, and further contraction of the economy. “This will have an adverse effect on businesses, since the purchasing power of the citizens would have been reduced, sales of goods and services would reduce and inventories for business would be high and could lead to the closure of businesses that ought to be supported by government in reducing unemployment rate in the country. ” Throwing insight on why its disagreed on the aspect of tax payment in advance that is inherent in the proposed Bill Amendment, it said: “Section 77 seeks to get tax payment in advance and erodes the possibility of payment of tax after the due date of filing” and frowned that payment of tax in advance distorts the cash-flow of companies and its ability to generate future revenue, which could be subjected to tax.