Chief Ayo Adebanjo, elder statesman and chieftain of Afenifere, in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on latest developments in the polity, especially on the release of former National Security Adviser (NSA) Sambo Dasuki and convener of #RevolutionNow movement, Omoyele Soworeby the Muhammadu Buhari administration, alleged lopsided appointments and other issues. Excerpts: The federal government has released former National Security Adviser (NSA) Sambo Dasuki and convener of #RevolutionNow movement, Omoyele Sowore. Many Nigerians believe President Buhari only succumbed to pressure from the international community and never did so willingly. Do you also share that view? There is no doubt about the fact that the international community played a huge role in their release. I have no doubt about that. It is Nigerians that are surprised, I am not. I warned Nigerians about Buhari before; I told them that this is the type of man that he is and a leopard cannot change its spots. Did I not warn all of you before you voted for him in 2015? When he was telling Nigerians then that he used to be a military leader but now he is a converted democrat, I asked Nigerians ‘ what evidence do you have that this man has changed from his old ways?’ One of the monarchs in this country from the South- West whose name I won’t mention was talking about Buhari’s statement that he is going to ensure a free and fair election in 2023 when nobody forced him to say so. He said we are going to hold him to his word. Then I asked the monarch and I said ‘Kabiyesi, have you not heard that statement before? Is this the first time they are promising free and fair election and then doing the opposite? He said he was a born-again democrat and that he will obey the rule of law, has he obeyed it? Except we want to deceive ourselves, there is nothing he will say that has not been said before; the only thing is that he refuses to adhere to it. So, Nigerians deserve the government they want. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Recent appointments made by the President has also been criticised by some Nigerians who believe it doesn’t augur well for the unity of the country. What is your perspective on that? The type of Nigerians that Buhari and some savage Northerners want is one that they are perpetually in power. When they talk about unity of Nigeria not being negotiable, the unity they mean they will be the rider and the South will be the horse. That will not happen! How can you be talking about a united Nigeria where you concentrate all the powers in the hands of a section of the country? Are we blind to that? The whole security apparatus in the country is in the hands of Northerners from Katsina. The financial institution in the country now is all in their hands. Is that fair in a united country? Can a Christian President do that and there won’t be uproar? So, If people decide to be politically correct, I am not in your group. What do you think is the way forward? The only solution like I have always said is to change the constitution to a federal system. Until we change the constitution of this country to real federal system that is acceptable to all the units of the federation, we are not going anywhere; any other thing is a waste of time and efforts, and cannot take us anywhere. When you have a constitution that confers on you powers to appoint heads of MDAs and security chiefs from just one section of the country, and you say it is a federation; is that federalism; with lopsided appointments, taking the resources of one section to develop the other section, and the security architecture of the country concentrated in a section of the county. If there is any change we need, it is the change of the constitution that is acceptable to all the federating units of the federation, and not a constitution that was imposed on us by a section of the country. All the dictatorial powers that Buhari is exercising is because of this awkward constitution and that is why he doesn’t want to change it. He said he is fighting corruption when we all know that corruption is on the increase in the country. Nigerians should stop deceiving themselves. Ayo Adebanjo will not shy away from saying the truth. Some people are blaming Tinubu? Is Tinubu not a Nigerian? And when Tinubu made the mistake, why can’t other Nigerians see through? All the Yorubas in APC are dummies. They cannot speak against Buhari’s dictatorship. I know why they are afraid but I don’t want to go into all those details now. If Nigerians don’t know where they are going, I know where I am coming from. All I’m saying is change the constitution. Whoever is responsible for changing it is none of my business. All that has happened in the past is gone; let us focus on the present. Some are saying, why didn’t Obasanjo do it when he was there? A monarch recently told me that, and I replied him that Obasanjo is not there now. Nobody praised or congratulated Obasanjo for not doing it. It is the man who is there now that has the power to change the thing and that is why I am asking Buhari to do the needful and stop being politically correct. Many people, including journalists like you know the truth but they are afraid of saying it, including your publishers who are collaborators. Maybe it is because you don’t want your newspaper houses to be closed down, I don’t know. On the issue of restructuring, the fear of many is that if implemented, it may break up the country, don’t you also nurse that fear? I have answered that on several occasions. I don’t think any normal person will be reasoning in this line. Did the constitution our founding fathers give at independence breakup the country? Are they saying that the constitution broke up the country? I don’t know why some people are mischievous. If stupid people are talking, intelligent people shouldn’t re-echo what they are saying.