The National Agency For Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has warned agro input dealers in Taraba State to get listed immediately or face the relevant sanctions, which may lead to closure of their businesses. The state Coordinator of NAFDAC, Suleiman Muyideen, gave the warning in an address delivered at a stakeholders’ sensitisation programme for agro input dealers held at Taraba Agricultural Development Programmes (TADP) premises in Jalingo. He said the warning became necessary because some dealers who had refused to be registered were engaged in the practice of agro chemical storage, handling, distribution, dispensing and sales in complete violation of NAFDAC regulations. In his speech, the NAFDAC North-East Zonal Director, Sabo Adamu, drew the attention of the agro-input dealers to the fact that they were dealing with chemicals, which were very dangerous to human and the environment, hence the need for effective regulation. He explained that agro-input dealers were making the most important stakeholders of NAFDAC, considering the risk and impact of their product on human and the environment. Sabo, who described the relationship between the agro input dealers and NAFDAC as cordial however, enjoined the members to cooperate with the state office through compliance with the regulations as approved to their business. Over 300 participants in the area of agro input business from across the state attended the programme organised in due consideration of the growing number of agro input dealers in Taraba State. The sensitisation programme focused on the levels of NAFDAC regulation compliance by the agro input dealers in the area, especially in the area of listings as agro-chemical marketers’ sales of banned, fake and unregistered chemicals, dispensing of chemicals safety measures in chemical storage and handling. It also focused on inappropriate use of chemicals in food preservation, expectations from agro-input dealers’ abuse/misuse of agro chemical and the recent ban on the 100ml pack size of dichlovors. Our correspondent, who was at the programme, reported that four relevant topics were assigned and presented by NAFDAC staff from within and outside Taraba State office, namely: Guidelines for obtaining listings as agro Chemical marketers, NAFDAC/Customers expectations from input dealers, Safety measures in agro chemical handling/storage and abuse misuse of agro chemicals.