Rachel Riley and Pasha Kovalev, who have become parents to their first child. The arrival of baby Riley Kovaleva (the female variant of Pasha’s surname) was announced on Instagram with adorable picture of the couple with their daughter, Maven. And the little one definitely had a dramatic entrance – arriving on the bathroom floor. Rachel wrote: ‘2 weeks after we were expecting her this little one finally made an appearance! ‘Miss Maven (one who understands) Aria (lioness) Riley Kovaleva arrived on Sunday morning weighing in at 7lbs 4. After keeping us waiting she came so quickly we didn’t have a chance to get to the hospital and was born in our bathroom with our amazing doula and wonderful St Mary’s midwives rushing over to be with us in to be nick of time! ‘She’s absolutely perfect and Pasha and I are in newborn bliss. Couldn’t be more in love.’ Rachel shared an assortment pictures of her and her husband holding their newborn daughter, who was dressed in an adorable knitted rainbow striped onesie, in front of the Christmas tree, before posting a close up picture of the cutie – who they have already nicknamed ‘Mave’. Revealing her pregnancy in May, Rachel used a Countdown conundrum to share the happy news. The presenter shared an adorable snap of herself cradling her stomach in front of the Countdown board, with letter that spelled out ‘maternity’ when rearranged. ‘Pash and I have a conundrum for you… you have til December to work it out!’ she tweeted. Maven’s birth comes days after Rachel celebrated the Conservative Party’s win in the general election, following her row with Jeremy Corbyn. She sparked major backlash after wearing a Photoshopped t-shirt which erased Jeremy Corbyn’s anti-apartheid message. The star wore a t-shirt that showed a photo of Corbyn being arrested on an anti-apartheid protest in 1984. However, Rachel’s t-shirt saw Corbyn holding a Photoshopped placard reading: ‘Jeremy Corbyn is a racist endeavour.’ The original picture shows Corbyn holding a sign reading: ‘Defend the right to demonstrate against apartheid; join this picket.’      