Festus Okoye, a lawyer, is the National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he expressed the readiness of the electoral umpire to proceed with Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly  Elections.  He also spoke on the readiness of the commission to conduct elections in areas battling with security challenges. Excerpts: There are reports that INEC may further postpone Saturday’s elections again. How true is that? No! We are going ahead with the election. We are ready for this election. There were reports that there may be a staggered election which was also one of the reasons why the election was postponed. What is your take on this? The issue of staggered election was never on the table. The issue on the table was going ahead with the election. If we went on with the election, some polls would have opened at 8am, 9am and 10am and 12am midnight. The only thing we had was differential opening of the poll. That was the only issue in the cart and we discountenanced it. What is your commission doing about conducting elections in volatile areas in the North East especially in areas where we have internally displaced persons? Before this period, we developed a framework for voting by persons  who are internally displaced and thereafter we issued a regulation and guidelines for voting by Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs).  Up to this particular period, we have identified IDPs in 15 states but as we are moving towards the elections, it may lead to upscale. What we have said is that we have a data of all the persons who are internally displaced in various parts of the country in Borno, Yobe and Benue.  During the Continuous Voters Registration exercise, those that lost their PVCs and whose names are in the voters register, we printed their PVCs and handed over to them. Those that have not registered before; we registered them and also gave them PVCs. We identified the camps of the IDPs and elections will be conducted in those camps based on the registration areas of all the people in the camps. Wherever it is possible to conduct elections, we are going to conduct elections in those areas. Wherever it is impossible to conduct elections and the security agencies are saying they cannot protect those areas, of course we won’t conduct elections in those areas.  The implication is that it is either the people are completely displaced or partially displaced. But our assurance is that wherever it is possible to conduct election in a state that have challenges of insurgency or insecurity, we will conduct election in those areas. The governor of Borno state was attacked in Gamboru by Boko Haram insurgents while campaigning for the elections. What safety measures have you put in place to secure the lives of your ad-hoc members who will be conducting elections in these areas? We won’t just move ad-hoc staff arbitrarily to places where we believe are very vulnerable or places we believe that if we deploy them to, they are likely to come to  harm.  We have been working with the Intelligence Consultative Committee on Election Security to map out places that we regard as flashpoints, places that have serious problems of insurgency and places that we have camps of IDPs. It is not as if we are oblivious of some of the security challenges but we are working with all  these organs and the Resident Electoral Commissioners in these states that have challenges of insecurity  are in touch with all the critical stakeholders in terms of where it is possible to conduct elections and places where it is impossible to conduct elections  or where the registration areas has to be moved or adjusted to make sure that people vote. Wherever it is possible for people to vote, we will make sure that the people are not disenfranchised. So we are determined to make sure that every eligible Nigerian votes in this election unless it becomes practically impossible to conduct elections in some places in which case the registration areas will be adjusted to enable people to vote. Wherever it is secured to conduct elections, we conduct elections in those areas.