The Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, has denied allegations by the National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu that he sponsored thugs to the presidential rally of the party in the state on Monday. In a reaction to the statement by Mr Rotimi Durojaiye, Special Adviser (Information and Strategy) to Senator Amosun, stated that it is ridiculous that a party would accuse a governor of sponsoring thugs to the rally organised and hosted by him. On the threat contained in the statement by Issa Onilu that the party would “deal with Governor Amosun after the elections”, Durojaiye that: “the position of the governor is that rather than dissipate their energy on those they will deal with after election, Comrade Oshiomole and his co-travellers should be remorseful that their anti-democratic conduct has denied the APC scores of legislative seats and a number of executive positions across the country even before the elections. They do not need to wait until after the election, they should throw-in the towel now for undermining the chances of the party they have cornered for their selfish ends”. Commenting on the allegation that the governor sponsored thugs to the presidential rally, the Special Adviser noted that “it is clearly ridiculous that someone will author the statement purportedly signed by Mr Lanre Issa – Onilu. As the governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun was not only the host at the rally, he organised the grand reception for Mr President. “The relationship between President Buhari and Governor Amosun is well known. It is therefore unthinkable that someone will allege that Governor Amosun will organise thugs against the president. “The statement by Mr Onilu is another confirmation of the personification of the APC by Comrade Oshimhole who is using the party to ventilate his personal grouse against Governor Amosun. It is however becoming clear to every discerning mind that the injustice meted out to the overwhelming majority of members of the APC in Ogun State by Comrade Oshiomhole and his cohorts cannot stand”. “Mr President was given an unprecedented rousing welcome into the Moshood Abiola Stadium on arrival and the atmosphere at the rally remained peaceful and carnival-like until former Governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola and Comrade Oshiomhole incensed the crowd with their unguarded speeches. “It is important to note that contrary to the erroneous impression being created that President Buhari campaign tour ended abruptly, President Buhari attended all campaign activities as scheduled after the rally at the stadium. “He met the Ogun State Council of Traditional Rulers at the June 12 Cultural Centre where he addressed  1012 traditional rulers and chiefs comprising Paramount rulers, High Chiefs, Baales and Olorituns from across the state and thereafter had a private lunch  at the Presidential Lodge before departing Ogun State as scheduled.