Samuel Ogidan, Innocent Oweh Abuja – Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has described the handling of Saturday’s presidential election that saw the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari as a grand theft of the people’s will. Atiku said though the legal journey to challenge the outcome of the poll might be long, he was confident of victory in the long run. The former vice president said it was the worst election in the 30 years of his sojourn in politics, adding that not even a military government would conduct such. He, however, appealed to the international community not to punish the people by divesting from Nigeria, as their quarrel was with those who stole the mandate of the people. Atiku said, “On election day, we saw the implementation of a grand theft of the people’s will. I am not one for hyperbole, so I will just let the facts speak for themselves. “In Akwa Ibom, for instance, the results showed a statistical impossibility of a 62% drop in voter numbers from the 2015 elections, even where voter registration and PVC collection rates were much higher than in 2015. “This pattern was repeated in strongholds of the Peoples Democratic Party, including Delta, Rivers, Abia, and Benue states. “As this was occurring, we saw another statistical impossibility wherein voter turnout and numbers increased astronomically in Borno State by an almost miraculous 82% in the midst of increased insecurity. “This pattern was also repeated in other strongholds of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “One begins to ask if insecurity is conducive to higher voter turnouts and security is antithetical to high voter turnout. “It is further curious that the Peoples Democratic Party’s margin of victory in states outside the South-East and South-South were extremely slim across board. That again is a statistical impossibility. “The fact is that when you calmly look at the numbers declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as results of the February 23, 2019 elections, they do not add up.” The former vice president further said: “Let me say that I am not speaking as a member of the Peoples Democratic Party. “I am speaking as a Nigerian when I say that the electoral fraud perpetrated by the Buhari administration this past Saturday cannot produce a government of the people for the simple reason that it does not reflect the will of the Nigerian people. “It is for this reason that I, Atiku Abubakar, reject the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission declaring Muhammadu Buhari as duly returned by the majority of lawful votes. “I am conferring with not just my party, but also with the Nigerian people, on next steps, which will be revealed to the public shortly. “For my fellow Nigerians who feel angry, disillusioned, and let down by the process, I appeal to you to remain calm and steadfast. “Rome was not built in a day. We have the real figures, we have the facts that were spoken so loudly on Saturday, February 23, 2019. “This is a long journey, but I am confident of victory. All hope is not lost. Stay strong. By the grace of God, we shall triumph.” Appealing to investors, Atiku said: “And to investors and friends of Nigeria now pulling out of Nigeria, I urge you to be patient and keep faith with the Nigerian people. “Your quarrel is not with the Nigerian people. Your quarrel is with those who stole their mandate. Please do not punish the people by divesting from Nigeria.” Meanwhile, one of the PDP presidential spokesmen, Buba Galadima, was on Wednesday sighted at the press briefing of Atiku. Recall that Galadima was last Sunday arrested and detained allegedly by masked operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS). But four days after the arrest, the vibrant spokesman appeared at the Yar’Adua Centre, venue of the press briefing, about 4:36p.m, decked in a brown sleeveless shirt and a red face cap. On his arrival to the venue, he was ushered to a front row seat of the main hall of the centre and party members immediately gathered around him in obvious solidarity to his recent ordeal at the hand of security operatives. The National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, and other stakeholders of the party had called for Galadima’s release, accusing the DSS of being behind his arrest and detention. Presidential Election Free, Fair, Buhari Insists Despite the decision of Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to contest the result of Saturday’s poll in court, President Muhammadu Buhari has insisted that the electoral exercise was free and fair in his own estimation. Buhari said he came to that conclusion from comments credited to several observers, both local and foreign. He, however, commended all the presidential candidates for putting up a good contest, acknowledging that a hard fought campaign preceded the election from all the stakeholders. The re-elected president made the remarks while receiving his certificate of return from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday in Abuja. “From the comments of several observers, both local and foreign, it is obvious that the elections were both free and fair,” Buhari stated. He described the recent election as a milestone in Nigeria’s democratic trajectory, saying it took place in a peaceful manner. He said: “I am grateful to God for sparing our lives to witness another milestone in Nigeria’s democratic development – namely conclusion of the presidential election in an overwhelmingly peaceful manner. “I wish, Mr. Chairman, to congratulate all the presidential candidates and their teams on a hard-fought campaign. “We may have had different views during the campaign, but the one thing most of us have in common is love of our country and our desire to improve conditions for Nigerians.” The president said since the election was over and a winner declared, Nigerians must all see it as a victory for Nigeria, hence his warning to his teeming supporters not to gloat or humiliate the opposition over their loss. He said: “Our God-given victory is enough cause for joy, without deriding those who were in the opposition. All Nigerians, going forward, must stand in brotherhood, for a bright and fulfilling future. “I, therefore, want to assure that we will continue to engage all parties that have the best interest of Nigerians at heart. “Our government will remain inclusive and our doors will remain open. That is the way to build the country of our dream; safe, secure, prosperous, and free of impunity and primitive accumulation by those entrusted with public offices. “The hard work to deliver a better Nigeria continues, building on the foundations of peace, rule of law and opportunities for all. “We will roll up our sleeves afresh, and give it our all. We have no other motive than to serve Nigeria with our hearts and might, and build a nation which we and generations to come can be proud of. “I am very grateful to the over 15 million citizens who voted for me, those who contributed in many ways in the running of our successful campaign, and those at home and abroad who expressed confidence in me and the APC government. I thank you all. “I can assure that you will see a country moving to the next level, as we consolidate on our fundamental areas of securing the country, reviving the economy, and fighting corruption. “Many other focal areas, as stated in our campaign manual, will be added to the good things we plan for our country.” The president also regretted the fate that befell some of the active participants in the electoral process, insisting that the do-or-die approach to elections was not in the best interest of the country. “Let me pay tribute here to those who lost their lives either through accidents or mindless violence during the course of these elections. My heart and thoughts are with the families of the victims. May God comfort and give them the fortitude to bear the loss. “Election is not war, and should never be seen as a do or die affair. I pray that we all accept this democratic approach to elections, however contentious,” he noted. He also commiserated with the families of the victims of the latest bandits’ attacks in Sokoto and the inter-communal conflict in Kaduna State, warning that “mass murder of innocent people by criminals would be met with full force.” Reacting to the wave of killings in Abuja on Wednesday, President Buhari said, “The death of one innocent Nigerian is no less important than the death of a hundred.” He added: “It is a matter of time before these murderous gangs of criminals meet their Waterloo.” According to the president, “The criminals cannot be lucky always because the law will ultimately catch up with them and deliver justice ruthlessly. “Let no group of outlaws doubt the will and resolve of my administration to confront criminals who have no iota of regard for the sanctity of life.” President Buhari also reassured Nigerians that their security remained a top priority of his government. “Our security personnel are being trained, retrained, motivated and provided with essential equipment in order to improve their capacity to respond to our security challenges,” he stated. President Buhari also prayed that God Almighty would grant rest to the souls of the unfortunate victims of the killings in Sokoto and Kaduna states. Earlier, the INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, while presenting the certificate of return to the president and his deputy, Yemi Osinbajo, explained that it was in compliance with the Electoral Act which stipulates that the document be presented to the winner within seven days. Buhari retains his seat for another four years with 15,191,947 votes as against that of his closest rival, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 11,262,978 votes. While Buhari successfully won 19 states, Atiku led in 17 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).