Lagos – Ahead of Wednesday’s Confederation of African Football (CAF) Confederation Cup tie against CS Sfaxien, players of Rangers International of Enugu striker, are in high spirit to go all out for the maximum points in the crucial encounter billed for Tunisia. According to Ibrahim Ajani, the ‘Flying Antelopes’ will not be under any form of pressure in the encounter as he predicted that his side will shock CS Sfaxien at home. The former Sunshine Stars of Akure striker noted that, since CS Sfaxien are former champions and playing at home, all pressure will be on the hosts to win, while the visitors from Enugu will calmly play for an upset. Ajani is equally relieved that his side started their campaign in the second-tier competition’s group stage with a win, at home against Salitas of Burkina Faso last weekend. Ajani is of a view that last Sunday’s 2-0 win at Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu put the Coal City side in the right frame for greater heroics in the competition, as he believes their level of confidence has been increased. Ajani said he is happy that the victory took Rangers top of Group B, as their next opponents, Sfaxien, won their Tunisian derby 1-0 over Etoile du Sahel in Sousse. The Ogun State-born striker, who has also played with Enyimba of Aba in the past, added that he and his teammates are determined to bring glory to Nigeria in this year’s edition of the CAF Confederation Cup. “We will continue to raise our game knowing well that the Tunisians are always tactical in their approach. “We will be hoping to repeat our home form away. When we play away against the Tunisian side, we will not be playing under any pressure. “We were not considered as favourite because the North African sides were former champions and they are highly-rated in the continent. “Winning all our home matches are crucial to our qualification to the knockout stage. “This I believe we can achieve with determination and support from the home fans. I am confident that team (will) make the country proud”, he said. In a related development, leading goals scorer in the competition, Godwin Aguda has set a target of double goals digit for himself in the competition. In an exclusive chat, the young attacking midfielder who played a great part in Rangers’ league triumph in 2016 said that extra training after the regular ones by his coaches was to a very large extent responsible for the goals rush in the competition. “It can only be God’s grace coupled with my team mates and coaches support that have seen me get this far in the competition. No doubt, the extra trainings I put myself through after our regular training has also been helpful”, he said. The highly talented goal poacher said on his top scoring form, “I am indeed very happy at the goals that I have been scoring for my team to help us get this far in the competition and it can only get better. “By God’ grace, I believe that I will hit the double digit figure that is 12 or 13 goals, before the end of the competition. Remember we still have 11 more games to play.” He further said, “Just as it is the wish of most young players in the country, it is my desire to export my God given football talents overseas for better appreciation after helping my current club, Rangers International F.C, realize our targets for the current season.” On the encounter in Rades, Tunisia against C.S Sfaxien, Aguda said, “We respect every team we play against and that respect continues with the CS Sfaxien game and we hope to come back with a respectable result.” The all bustling midfielder only failed to find the back of the net in the two games against Algerian side, U.S.M Bel Abbes.