Lagos – The Managing Director of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, Mr. Fidet Okhiria, has disclosed that the ongoing work on the Apapa-Ibadan Standard Gauge Railway will be completed by May 2019. Speaking in an exclusive interview with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Mr. Okhiria disclosed that work on the track laying that is progressing satisfactorily will be in the fifth month of the year for travellers to move from Ebutte Meta through Abeokuta to Ibadan. He dispelled as untrue rumour that the train was taken off the track for fear of being vandalised. “That is not true. It has been on the track all through the week. In fact, I have received reports of its operations before this call. It will not run on Friday to enable the workers to also observe the holiday and cast their votes. “We leave Abeokuta at 7 am and arrive 8 in Lagos. Work is ongoing on the second track and by April ending we will get to Ibadan and by May, we will get to Ebutte-Meta to enable traveller from that axis travel to Ibadan on the track,” he said. He explained that the engine still runs slow because it is still undergoing test operation, saying that when the tracks are completely laid travel time will reduce for the comfort of a passenger along standard gauge corridors. Records obtained from officials showed that the maiden free ride from Iju-Lagos terminus to Laderin in Abeokuta had seven passengers and on the second day it increased symbolically to 13 for the journey on February 13, 2019. The air-conditioned executive coach has a capacity for 56 while the regular coach takes a maximum of 88 passengers. As the train runs on the tracks, it was fascinating to see that beyond the noise pollution in the city centres, rural dwellers still do lots of agriculture. The major crops for cultivation were maize and cassava. While harvesting was taking place along all the farming fields the train travelled through, sand miners were busy doing their trade as they excavate sand of different texture and stones meant for building. With the ongoing reforms in rail lines around the country, train travel may soon become a more desirable means of travel along tracks via any of the routes. The test run from Iju to Abeokuta is attracting so much attention as intending passengers throng the terminus daily for enquiry on travel schedules.