XAVIER NDAH Men of Ogun State Police Command have arrested a four man armed robbery gang who specialised in snatching motorcycles in Agbara area of the state and its environs. Police sources said the snatched motorcycles are sold at giveaway prices to unsuspecting members of the public just as the robbers confess their adventure is to make ends meet. The arrest of the gang followed a report made at Agbara Divisional Headquarters on February 20, 2019 by one Suuru Nofiyonbin who reported that at about 5:30am of the date,  while he was riding his unregistered Bajaj motorcycle,  he picked a man who pretended to be a passenger from OPIC Estate Agbara heading to Igere. Deputy Superintendent of Police, DSP, Abimbola Oyeyemi, Police Public Relations Officer Ogun state confirming their arrest to Daily Independent said “On their way going, the said passenger brought out a mortal pestle from his bag and hit him on the head with it thereby inflicted serious injury on his head and made him unconscious before dispossessing him of his motorbike. “On the strength of the report, the DPO Agbara Division, CSP Adegbite Omotayo quickly led his Anti- Robbery team to the scene,  combed the entire area in collaboration with the Vigilante service of Ogun State and succeeded in apprehending the suspect who was later identified as Abraham Lucky. “The motorcycle and the pestle were subsequently recovered from him. “On interrogation, he confessed bein responsible for series of motorcycles snatching in the area,  he also named the duo of Emeka Ekenle,28 and Oluwaseun Adekoya,25,as his gang members as well as one Monday Nzkube  as their receiver. “The detectives quickly accompanied him to the residence of his accomplices and got them arrested. “They have all confessed to the commission of the crime,  they admitted having snatched more than ten motorcycles in Agbara and its environs.”Oyeyemi revealed. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, CP Ahmed Iliyasu has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to Special Anti-robbery Squad (SARS) for discreet investigation. The CP further reiterates the commitment of the Command not to rest on its oars until the State is rid of crime and criminality.