Lokoja – Elder Simon Achuba, Kogi State deputy governor, has called on the Inspector General of Police, the Commissioner of Police, and the governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, to effect the release of his ADC and police orderly who had been detained since Friday. The deputy governor made the call on Sunday at a press conference held in his official quarters at Lugard House, Lokoja. He said the call became necessary when his ADC and orderly were summoned to the Government House on the eve of the botched presidential and National Assembly elections and were allegedly detained by the commander of the State Anti-Robbery Squad in Lokoja, the state capital. Achuba lamented that not only the ADC and the orderly, all other security details legally approved for his office had been withdrawn, thereby putting his life and family under security threat. He stated that on February 15, 2019, when he was ready to travel to his village for the elections, a call came that his security officers were needed at Government House for briefing, adding that on their getting there, they were hounded into detention. The deputy governor noted that on enquiry, he was told that the officers were being held for gun running, stressing that his effort to make the Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Busari, to ensure their release proved abortive. He warned the Nigeria police to be professional in their duty and refuse to be used by government or any group of persons against hapless Nigerians. He reminded them that they took an oath to protect the lives and property of Nigerians and not the privileged few. Achuba, who disclosed that his imprest and duty tour allowances (DTA) had been stopped in the last two years, added that water, electricity, and other utilities had equally been disconnected from his official residence. According to him, he had to stop attending government functions as a result of financial crunch, saying all his pleas for an explanation for the ordeal fell on deaf ears of the governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, and his chief of staff, Edward Onoja. On the issue of his rumoured defection, Achuba disclosed that the government was behind the rumours who would stop at nothing to ease him out of the system. He added that as a two-term member of the state legislature on the platform of the PDP, he had built a credible relationship with many politicians, saying his closeness with members of other parties should be an advantage for the APC as a strong party is rooted in the people. He said, “We have to have a new thinking and new approach to resolve issues rather than using the instrument of security to harass people. “I have discussed my ordeal with the National Chairman of APC, the Secretary to Federal Government (SGF), the vice president of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, to no avail. “I still remain a very prominent member of APC as I called on the IGP to ensure that my personal security and family are guaranteed.” Daily Independent made a call to the Chief Press Secretary to governor, Mohammed Onogwu, to get the governor’s side of the story, but he explained that he was yet to get briefing on the matter from his boss.