Lagos – The FIBA World Cup is an international basketball competition contested by the senior men’s national teams of the members of the International Basketball Federation (FIBA), the sport’s global governing body. It is considered the flagship event of FIBA. The tournament structure is similar, but not identical, to that of the FIFA World Cup; both of these international competitions were played in the same year from 1970 through 2014. The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation. The winning team receives the Naismith Trophy, first awarded in 1967. The current champions are the United States of America (USA), who defeated Serbia in the final of the 2014 tournament. Following the 2014 FIBA championships for men and women, the men’s World Cup was scheduled on a new four-year cycle to avoid conflict with the FIFA World Cup, thus the next edition is holding this year, in the year following the FIFA World Cup in Russia. This year edition of theFIBA World Cup  will take place in China from August 31 to September 15. With a record 32 participating teams, the tournament will see 92 games played over 16 days. The followings have already qualified including hosts, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Canada, China (Host), Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Korea, Lithuania, New Zealand, Nigeria, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, USA and Venezuela. Nigeria’s national basketball team joined FIBA in 1964. Recently, the team has enjoyed success, due to an increasing amount of talents from Nigeria as well as an orchestrated recruitment of American college and professional players of Nigerian descent. A team dominated by Nigerian-Americans qualified for the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan, marking only the second time in the country’s history that they qualified to the FIBA World Cup. The first time was in 1998 when the FIBA World Cup was hosted in Athens, Greece and finished 13th. In Japan, D’Tigers were drawn in Group A with Argentina, France, Lebanon, Serbia and Montenegro, and Venezuela. They surprisingly finished third, and then were narrowly defeated by Germany in the Round of 16. Overall they finished 14th, as they achieved the same record as the defending world champion, Serbia and Montenegro. And with this year’s edition of the FIBA World Cup fast approaching, the question in the country is whether D’Tigers can live up to expectations in China, considering the fact that the team qualified for the FIBA World Cup even before the final phase of qualifiers held in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire. Nigeria recorded nine straight wins to become the first country in the world to qualify for the World Cup in China. For the team to have a successful outing in China, a basketball lover, Emeka Okafor called on the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) to set in motion machinery that will see the team performing well in China. According to Okafor, adequate preparations by the federation should be put in place for the team as well as other logistics. “I know that we have a team. I know that we have a coach. But what is left to be done is solid preparations for the team. “The NBBF must put in place machinery that would make the players to excel during the World Cup in China including incentives to boost their morale. “The NBBF should not let anything disturb them ahead of going to the World Cup in China.  The lingering crisis in the federation should be put behind for now and all hands on deck for a successful outing of the team in China. “With that in place, the players would also want to live up to expectations and play not only for the country but also for themselves,” he said. Coach Adewunmi Aderemi urged the players and technical crew to be focused. He also called on the players to make determination their watchword. “In basketball, it is survival of the fittest. A good team might lose a match if there is no determination. “The players and officials must be focused and determined to excel in China.  That is the only way by which they can succeed in China. “I wish them well and pray for their success as we are all in it together, but they must take my words seriously if they want to perform in China,” he said. One of the players, Michael Efevberha believes the 2015 African champions can shake the international basketball fraternity in China. And while Nigeria’s coaching staff, players and fans acknowledge there is still work to be done in the team, Efevberha is urging his peers to set a tone and “let all of Africa know that we mean business” as he told FIBA.basketball. The 6ft 4in (1.93m) shooting guard was instrumental for Nigeria in the February 2018 window and his performances have propelled the former continental champions to an impressive 9-0 record, good enough to guarantee them a place in China. And, unlike Tunisia – who also qualified on the back of winning their first nine games but lost two of their three games in their last round of qualification last month, Nigeria will be looking to remind everyone why they currently sit as Africa’s No.1 in the FIBA World Ranking Men. “Even though we have already qualified for the World Cup, we want to set a tone and let all of Africa know that we mean business,” he warned. “So far the African Qualifiers have been getting more competitive as each round passes. There are some very talented players all over Africa and around the world. I’m really looking forward to watching and competing against them all in China this year.” The 34-year-old, who currently plays for Lebanese side, Homenetmen Beirut B.C., likes to think that Nigeria can achieve what no other African country has ever done at the World Cup – reaching the final. “Qualifying for the World Cup is definitely a huge accomplishment for our national team. It has been a while since we last did so and now we have the opportunity to go to China and shock the world,” said Efevberha. “I believe our national team is talented enough and well coached enough to reach the final of the World Cup. When we lock in defensively we are very tough to deal with. We have enough fire power offensively to compete with anyone around the world. “The only team that can defeat us is ourselves. If we stay together as a family should, we will be very difficult to play against.” Efevberha knows of what he talks about. Back at 2009 FIBA AfroBasket, he led Nigeria in scoring, yet they returned home disappointed after missing out a spot for the 2010 FIBA Basketball World Cup in Turkey. He returned for the D’Tigers last year to find a better, stronger and highly-motivated Nigerian team ready to live up to their talent accolades. “Rejoining the national team was definitely a great honour for me,” he recalled. “There is no better feeling than playing for your home country. I’m very lucky to hold dual citizenship and I’m happy that Nigeria recognizes me as one of their top players around the world. “It’s more than an honor to play for a team regarded as the strongest in all of Africa. I believe we’re also one of the best teams around the world, and we will make sure to show that at the World Cup this year.” Coach Alexander Nwora is also optimistic that the team will live up to expectations and not disappoint the country in China as he is banking on hard work and better team chemistry. Nwora said hard work and better team chemistry will help the chances of his team at the FIBA 2019 World Cup. “I am very happy with where we are as a team, I think we can do better. We still have a long way to go to be able to have that type of team to compete with anybody in the world”, he said. According to him, more work is required to achieve more. “We have a very good chance, but nothing is cast on stone yet. The more you work, the more confident you become. If we keep doing what we are doing and keep pushing forward, we will do well in China. “We will do what we are supposed to do without cutting corners. We still have to get stronger as a team with unit rotation”, Nwora said. Nwora has continued to enjoy a career as D’Tigers coach with just two losses in all competitive games (against Congo Democratic Republic (CDR) and Tunisia) since taking charge in 2017. For him, keeping the flag flying and retaining the number one spot in Africa is the ultimate goal. The 2017 Afrobasket silver winning coach said the team will once again rely on some experienced members when the World Cup dunks off in China.