Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday escaped unhurt when his official helicopter crash-landed in Kabba, Kogi State. The helicopter carrying the Vice President and some of his aides crash-landed at the Kabba Township Stadium at about 2:30 pm. Another helicopter carrying the advance team had successfully landed at the stadium 10 minutes earlier. The one carrying the Vice President was not so lucky as it crash-landed, lost its balance and fell on its side. In the process, the propeller hit the side mirror of one of the vehicles on ground. Security men on hand immediately rushed to the scene to rescue Osinbajo and other occupants who came out unhurt. The Vice President was immediately driven away from the scene to Dazabeth Hotel, Kabba where he freshened up before coming out for his official engagement. From the hotel, the Vice President proceeded to the palace of Obaro of Kabba, Oba Solomon Owoniyi to pay homage. He proceeded to St. Augustine Catholic Secondary School for the inauguration of TraderMoni, a social intervention programme of the Federal Government. Osinbajo is expected at Okene and Idah councils of Kogi for the same programme before returning to Abuja later in the day. Earlier in the day, Laolu Akande, his senior special assistant on media and publicity, on his Twitter handle, had alerted Nigerians on the crash. He wrote, “VP Osinbajo’s Chopper crash lands in Kabba, but he and the entire crew safe. He is continuing with his engagements and plans for the day in Kogi State” He added, “We give all the glory to God, our able protector and commend all the flight crew officials for their service. We are marching on for indeed we can do all things through Christ that strengthens us!” Also, the Vice President via Twitter yesterday said, “We are safe and sound! Thank you to everyone who has expressed concern and thank you to the crew who managed the situation well. We believe that God will continue to keep us and Nigeria safe, even as we go higher. We continue #NextLevelEngagements in Kabba, Kogi State.” Meanwhile, Atiku Abubakar, Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Bukola Saraki, Senate President, Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives, yesterday thank God for sparing the life of the VP in the crash. In their reactions via Twitter, they wish the VP well, as he goes about his campaigns. Atiku wrote, “Dear Vice President @ProfOsinbajo, I just received the news of the crash of your helicopter in Kabba, Kogi State. I am happy to note however that all is well with you and your delegation.” The vice-president has been going from state to state campaigning for the reelection of President Muhammadu Buhari, and the All Progressives Congress candidates across the country.