Xavier Ndah Lagos – Mohammed Adamu, acting Inspector General of Police (AIG), has ordered the posting and redeployment of some senior police officers to zones, formations and state commands. The postings and redeployments, according to Frank Mba, the Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, followed the decoration of the newly promoted Assistant Inspectors General of Police and Commissioners of Police at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, on Wednesday, February 6, 2019. Following the directive, the redeployment of new Commissioners of Police to the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory to their respective commands takes immediate effect after the approval by the Police Service Commission (PSC). In the new posting, Buba Sanusi will now take charge of Katsina State Command, while Mohammed Wakili is now the new CP of Kano State. Others are Rabiu Ladodo, Jigawa State; Ahmed Iliyasu, Ogun State; Mu’azu Zubairu, Lagos State; Ibrahim Sabo, Niger State; Alkassam Sanusi, Taraba State and Garba M. Mukaddas, Adamawa State. Omololu Bishi has been posted to Benue State; Bola Longe, Nassarawa State; Isaac Akinmoyede, Plateau State; Odumosu Hakeem, Edo State; Olushola David, Bayelsa State; Adeleke Yinka, Delta State; Austin Iwero Agbonlahor, Cross River State; Bashir Makama, Akwa Ibom State; Awosola Awotunde, Ebonyi State; Belel Usman, Rivers State; Bello Makwashi, Gombe State and Abdulrahman Ahmed, Kaduna State. Also posted to their new commands are Bala Ciroma, FCT; Egbetokun Kayode, Kwara State; Hakeem Busari, Kogi State; Asuquo Amba, Ekiti State; Galadanchi Dasuki, Imo State; Suleiman Balarabe, Enugu State; Dandaura Mustapha, Anambra State; Etim Ene Okon, Abia State; Ibrahim Kaoje, Sokoto State; Celestine Okoye, Zamfara State; Garba Danjuma, Kebbi State; Abiodun Ige, Osun State; Undie Adie, Ondo State; Olukolu Shina, Oyo State; Ali Janga, Bauchi State; Damian Chukwu, Bornu State and Sumonu Abdulmalik, Yobe State. The commissioners are expected to proceed immediately to their new commands ahead of the 2019 general elections. Also redeployed were AIG Karma Hosea Hassan, who will now take charge of Staff College, Jos, while AIG Folawiyo David is now in charge of Training & Development. AIG Zana Ibrahim is now deployed as the Commandant of Police Academy (POLAC), Kano, even as Moses A. Jitiboh will be AIG in charge of Investment, Force Headquarters, Abuja. Ibrahim Lamorde will now be the AIG in charge of Force Intelligence Bureau while Murtala Mani will be the AIG, Force Headquarters even as Maurice Yusuf will be the AIG, Research and Planning. Also redeployed were Tijani Baba as the AIG, Zone 7, Abuja while Dibal Yakadi will be in charge of Zone 5, Benin City. AIG Abdul Dahiru Danwawo is redeployed to take charge of Maritime while AIG Adeyemi O. Ogunjemilusi will be in charge of directing staff, NIPPS, even as AIG Maurice A. Yusuf will handle Research and Planning. Other AIGs redeployed include Haruna Huzi Msheila for Zone 3, Yola; Mohammed Mustapha for Zone 10, Sokoto; Musa Kimo for Zone 6, Calabar; Adeleye Olusola Oyebade for Zone 11, Osogbo and Basen Dapiya Gwana for Zone 12, Bauchi