ABUJA – Barely twenty four hours after he accused Professor Mahmood Yakubu , Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and Chief Army Staff of holding clandestine meeting with candidate of the APC, President Mohammadu Buhari,  former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank, has come out to task the duo to prove their neutrality in the coming polls by allowing for a free, fair and credible elections. He said rather than the military choosing the intimidation option and calling for his arrest “they should tell Nigerians if the Chief of Army Staff did or did not attend a midnight meeting he referred to in his statement on Sunday.” He also called on Yakubu to tell Nigerians whether it was by coincidence that he was spotted on a national television wearing a cap with APC’s broom symbol, which is nothing but a clear display of his undisguised support for President Buhari’s re-election bid. Frank said: “I cannot be intimidated. I am not afraid of being arrested. Nigeria needs free, fair and credible elections necessary to ensure peace, sustain democracy and national development. “Let me add that INEC owes Nigerians and the world a sacred duty to allow votes during the forthcoming elections to count rather that it’s chairman openly taking sides by attending suspicious meetings with PMB and wearing APC’s campaign symbols. “Let Mahmood Yakubu prove to Nigerians that he is not pro-APC by allowing for transparency and impartiality of his staff during the presidential and National Assembly Elections on Saturday 16th February and the Governorship and State Assembly elections on March 2nd. “Let the Chief of Army Staff prove to Nigerians that the military has no role in the forthcoming elections by stopping his men from being used to intimidate and arrest opposition leaders or aid the rigging in favour of the APC.” “Let the COAS tell Nigerians that the ongoing massive deployment of military personnel to opposition strongholds across the country is not meant to intimidate opposition leaders in order to pave the way for the APC to unduly win as they did during the Ekiti and Osun states gubernatorial elections. “I stand by my statement on the highly suspicious midnight meeting with PMB and his top aides. No amount of threat or intimidation will stop me from raising the alarm when actions inimical to the peaceful and successful conduct of the forthcoming elections come to play. “Let me once again call on INEC to conduct free, fair and credible elections in February 16 and March 2, 2019. I also urge the military to stir clear of politics by concentrating on their core constitutional mandate before, during and after the 2019 elections.”