Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka is a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of All Progressives Grand Alliance, (APGA). In this interview with BEN NDUBUWA and GLORIA ANAEZEHE, he accused the leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo of betraying the cause of the Igbo nation. Excerpts: As a BOT member of APGA what do you say about the parallel view held by the Governor of Anambra State, Dr. Willie Obiano over Ohanaeze endorsing the presidential ticket of Atiku/Obi in the forthcoming election? The Governor is the Managing Director of Anambra State and he is the one running and managing the affairs of the state and Ohanaeze are not helping him to manage the state. And as a matter of fact, the Governor has done well in the State so far. For instance, in the area of security he has done so well. You can drive around in the night in any part of the state without harassment in any form. The state which used to be deserted place is now a delightful place and is now also a home for all Nigerians. In terms of infrastructure, he has done very well. You can sleep with your two eyes closed in the state now unlike before. Ohanaeze in my opinion has never provided the platform that the Igbos can rely on. I remember several times when the leaders of Ohanaeze has sold out on keys issues that concerns the Igbos. They have always done these for their personal interest. And this has never help the Igbos in the scheme of thing s in Nigeria. I don’t think they have been carrying the Igbos along all these years. Are you saying that the Ohanaeze endorsing Atiku/ Obi ticket is for their personal interest not to the interest of the entire Igbos? Yes, if you look at the many programmes of Ohanaeze, I have not seen anything that can provide the platform for an average Igbo man to excel within the political, social and economic engagement in Nigeria. Unlike our brothers from the Niger Delta who have through the Niger Delta agitation have engaged the Federal government that now gave them amnesty programmes and projects. And this amnesty programmes have provided them the opportunity to travel abroad to learn skills acquisitions. Aside from training them for entrepreneurial skills the government also gave them a start-up fund to start their own businesses. And through the activities of the Niger Delta agitations and with the support of their people they have been able to engage the Federal government constructively and in no way will the federal government ignore their demands, otherwise there will not be any marriage through oil between the federal government and the Niger Delta. Are you saying that the Ohanaeze is not giving the Igbos the needed inspiration to assert themselves in the schemes of things in Nigeria? How about the clamour by the Igbos through Ohanaeze that Nigeria should be restructured and as well the impression that the present administration has sideline the Igbos? My concern about the leadership of Ohanaeze right from time is that they will give the impression that they are representing and fighting for the interest of the Igbo people and their aspiration for equity in Nigeria only for them (the leaders) to abandon the Igbos when it matters most and get compromised at the end of the day. Sometimes, they will claim that they are going to see the presidency on behalf of the Igbos at the end nothing substantial will be heard from their meetings with the presidency and the impression always is that they have been compromised. So what is the use of making such a loud noise and gathering momentum over the affairs of the entire Igbo nation only for it to be abandoned halfway into the pursuit of these demands for the Igbos? The only visible outcomes of such meetings between the leadership of Ohanaeze and any government in power is the resultant government appointments of their cronies or money exchanging hands. By so doing they abandon the mission that first took them to the presidency. For example what has the leadership of Ohanaeze done about the second Niger Bridge and the campaign for this project has been on since forty years ago?. Is Ohanaeze not there when the Enugu to Port Harcourt express way become impassable and how about the Enugu to Onitsha expressway that is now in a terrible shape same for Nsukka to Enugu road?. So can you mention any thing the Ohanaeze has been able to achieve for the Igbos in the scheme of things in Nigeria? They will always go to the government in power and when they are settled they will keep their mouth shut. There have been several media reports about the Tansi University and the controversy surrounding the establishment of this University what is your involvement as the Chairman of Rogenny village? My involvement in the establishment of this University started ten years ago when I tried to maintain my equity in the establishment of the University. My equity in the ownership of the university was 81 percent and a Catholic Monsignor called John Bosco, had 13 percent and other investors had the remaining equity share of the University. Along the line the Reverend gentleman started to do certain things that was not good, part of which was the process of altering the document stating my equity. However, one of the requirements stated by the National University Commission (NUC) concerning the establishment of a University is that there must be an agreement covering the land upon which the University must be built. And the document concerning the land must state that such a land is free from any encumbrances. At a time the document of the land hosting the Tansi University was with the bank because I had deposited it with the bank as part of the collateral the bank needed in order to give me a loan when I need money to buy raw material for the running of my factory. After a while I stopped production in my factory. And there was an outstanding payment I needed to pay to the bank since I had stop the running of my factor. And this amount was about N14.5 million and I saw it as a peanut. Meanwhile the worth of the entire land property in Rogenny village the location of Tiansi University was NI.2 billion. But part of the land hosting the University that worth N450 million was the one I gave to the bank as collateral. So when the NUC needed the land documentation of the University I asked the Monsignor to upset the outstanding N14.5 million with the bank so that the document could be obtained from the bank. Meanwhile the land and facilities upon which the university was established belong to me and they form part of my equity share in the University. Later it was discovered that the monsignor was altering the documents to say he bought the land from the bank. What was your immediate reaction when you leant of this anomaly and the way he was going about claiming that he own the property? I reported to the police and it was confirmed that nobody sold the land to him. But that the document of landed property was signed by me to enable the University take off and of course no university is allowed to run on a land that is under mortgage, lease or rent. So that such a land should be free from encumbrances. However, my lawyer who was handling my adjudication Mr. Nnamdi Ibegbu, SAN, insisted that I cannot forfeit the ownership of the university nor the land however but with the intervention of the lawyer of the Monsignor, one Mr. Onyeji Ikpeazu and the Church; Onitsha Catholic dioceses I was asked to allow him to run the University while I retain the ownership of the university land and other facilities. According to them the church cannot struggle any landed property with me. The churched advised that I should settle with him but with the consent that I have allowed him to run the university and that the landed property should still be in my name. In other word that I still own the land upon which the university was built.