Lagos – The Nigerian breweries industry has experienced growth in recent times notwithstanding the slump in the economy occasioned by recession which crippled businesses in the better part of 2016 to the last quarter of 2017. Recent analysis of the sector by Afrinvest, in its executive summary of 2019, shows that while stiff competition, lower consumer spending and elevated cost of production have dogged the sector, it has however continued to attract investment due to its attractive pricing opportunity when compared with global peers across emerging and frontier markets such as Kenya with 148.8x rating, Turkey, 100.6x, India, 46.4x, China, 44.6x, Malaysia, 29.0x, Indonesia 28.5x and Brazil with 26.4x ratings amongst others. “There is no doubt that the Nigeria’s brewery sector has been plagued by the effect of the economic recession between the second quarter of 2016 to the same period in 2017, and also  induced by the decline in global crude oil prices, which fell below US$30.0 per barrel within the period”, it said. This, the report noted, resulted in a crunch in government revenues, which in turn led to a backlog of unpaid salaries by state governments, exchange rate devaluation and a slowdown in private sector investments. Consequently, lower disposable incomes, higher unemployment rate and ultimately a moderation in consumer spending, which moderated the earnings of brewing companies. Other factors which have impacted negatively on the sector have been the security situation in the middle-belt of the country following disruptions in supply of barley, sorghum, maize, rice and wheat, which are primarily sourced in the region by the brewery companies. The sustained decline in the foreign reserves between September 2014 and December 2016 prompted foreign exchange rationing and restricted capital outflows by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) impacted adversely on the brewery companies which had to import crucial supplies at higher costs. However, the report noted that the introduction of the Investors and Exporters’ forex window in April 2017, led to improved access for the sector which impacted positively on the industry revenue, as it went up by 14.7% to N508.0bn in 2017 financial year relative to the meager growth of 1.4% year on year recorded in 2016. Afrinvest also rated the performance of the major players in the industry namely, Nigerian Breweries, Guinness, International Breweries and Champion by assigning performance rating: ‘NB a ‘SELL’, GUINNESS a ‘HOLD’ while INTBREW and CHAMPION are rated ‘BUY’. “Our rating for NB is based on the company’s continued weak pace of revenue growth which we believe will remain, given the unabated competitive pressures within the sector. “For Guinness, we believe expected growth will also remain weak although we opine that revenues from spirits will buoy topline performance while the impact of lower finance cost presents an outlook for improvement in bottom-lines. “Also, we are convinced INTBREW’s performance will be backed by syndicated volume growth for the newly consolidated business, while we based CHAMPION’s rating on our anticipation of sustained improvement in revenues and profit after tax.” In assessing the entire operational structure of the breweries, especially, the big four, Afrinvest noted that the industry is structured along oligopolistic lines. “Hence, our analysis focuses on four listed brewers, namely Nigerian Breweries Plc, Guinness Nigeria Plc International Breweries Plc and Champion Breweries Pl) explaining that as at 2017 financial year, Nigerian Breweries and Guinness dominated coverage market share, accounting for 67.8% and 24.8% respectively while International Breweries and Champion Breweries, accounted for the remainder (7.4%). “However, as Ab-InBev merged its three Nigerian companies (International Breweries Plc, Pabod Breweries Limited and Intafact Beverages Limited) into International Breweries Plc in December 2017, our estimated market share for INTBREW in 2018 financial year is 19.3%, reducing NB, Guinness and Champion’s market share to 56.7%, 23.2% and 0.8% respectively”. The report also highlighted the likely impact of the new fiscal regulation on the sector following the introduction of additional excise duties on alcoholic beverages that came into effect on June 4, 2018. “Following the introduction of the tax, listed players initially responded by increasing prices to reflect the additional taxes, however, competitive pressures forced a reversal, with companies opting to bear the burden. Thus, our projections show that average cost to sales ratio for the sector will settle at 63.6% for 2018 compared with 57.9% in 2017 financial years”. The report also estimated that International Breweries’ cost to sales ratio will climb 7.5ppts to 61.1% from 53.6% in 2017. “While for Nigerian Breweries and Guinness, our computations show a 5.4ppts rise to 63.8% from 58.3% in 2017 and a 4.4ppts increase to 66.0% from 61.6% in 2017 respectively. Champion Breweries was excluded from sector average as cost to sales ratio of 71.0% in 2017 financial year was an outlier compared with peers”, it said. The report however, painted a positive revenue growth for the industry in 2018 financial year. “We estimated a 21.5% increase to N617.4bn, driven by marginal additional volumes from INTBREW post consolidation as well as improvement in consumer spending during the year as the country recorded a real GDP growth of 1.9%.” But, the report notes that cost pressures which was increased based on new excise duties as directed by the Federal Ministry of Finance will impact industry profitability by N37.0bn, down 29.9%, according to Afrinvest.