Temidayo Akinsuyi, Tony Ezimakor and Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council has cautioned the United States of America and other western countries over their unguarded statements on the general elections. In a statement by Festus Keyamo, its Director of Strategic Communications, the APC said it took exception to the statement made by United States’ Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart Symington, in which he implied that the Federal Government was planning to rig the elections for President Muhammadu Buhari, the APC candidate. Symington had warned public officials not to obey illegal directives issued in the name of the president, saying any politician whose utterances incited people to violence would be held to account for the crime. Keyamo said the United States had displayed its double standard for the world to see through the remarks of the diplomat. “We are deeply concerned about many of the expressions of the United States’ Ambassador to Nigeria, Ambassador W. Stuart Symington, and other Western diplomats which have been directed towards Nigeria’s upcoming elections. “Whilst we laud and whole-heartedly welcome their interests in the elections, many of these expressions have been notably off-key. “The continued warnings about ‘flawed elections’ is capable of casting an unwarranted cloud over the process. “Instead of encouraging our country toward credible elections, such statements undermine public confidence. It would appear that these envoys seem to have discredited the election before it has even taken place,” the statement said. Keyamo said Symington was seeking to “shrink our ambit of free speech so that we may behave in accordance with their vision of well-behaved Africans, rather than in consonance with our vision of our own democracy, no matter how tumultuous and dramatic we may be”. He added: “It would appear that his position seeks to prohibit forms of expression integral to our political discourse. These forms of expression have time and time again been adjudged to be constitutionally-protected speeches by the United States Supreme Court. “However, Ambassador Symington intentionally issued his threats to place a chilling effect on speeches in Nigeria that, if uttered in America, would be constitutionally protected. “Unfounded allegations and threats to penalize people for constitutionally-protected free speech is improper interference in our internal affairs. Sadly, what Ambassador Symington and some other western diplomats are doing border on the improper.” He said the constant statements by Ambassador Symington and the other diplomats were implicit attacks against the government of Nigeria. “These statements imply the Nigerian government is inclined to rig the election in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari. This is unfair and unacceptable to us. “The impression he creates by constantly harping on suspected government interference with the electoral process is that President Buhari cannot win without tipping the results. He seems to be saying that only a PDP victory will be evidence of a fair election,” the statement said. The APC campaign council insisted that Nigerians would define Nigeria’s democracy, adding: “We shall hold fair and just elections, not because of scolding by diplomats, but because we have sufficient intelligence and morality to do what is right for ourselves.” PDP Expresses Concern Over Threat To International Bodies Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday expressed concern over the incessant threats by the Buhari presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Nigerians and international bodies. Describing the threats as worrisome, the party said Buhari’s presidency and the APC were seeking to pull down the nation and pitch her against the global community and return it to a pariah nation status. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “The threats by the Buhari Campaign Organization to the United States Ambassador to Nigeria, Ambassador W. Stuart Symington, as well as attempts to demonize the envoy for his country’s caution against hate speech in our electioneering discourse by desperate politicians is to say the least, embarrassing. “Just as the proverbial old woman who takes offence whenever dry bones are mentioned, the Buhari Presidency and the APC are furious and issuing threats at this open and well-intentioned caution by peace loving members of the global community because they are directly culpable. “Only on Sunday, President Muhammadu Buhari at his campaign rally in Zamfara state made incendiary comments and encouraged his audience to join the APC in its planned resort to violence and self-help in the 2019 general election. “It is instructive to recall that this direct threat by the Buhari Campaign Organization is coming days after the Governor of Kaduna State, and APC chieftain, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, threatened that members of the global democratic institutions working towards peaceful 2019 general elections in our country will return in body bags. “It is indeed worrisome that having realized that they have no chance in the February 16 Presidential election, the Buhari Presidency and the APC are seeking to pull down our country, pitch her against the global community and return us to a pariah nation status.” Observer Missions Critical To Credible Election Processes— INEC Again, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman of the Independent National Commission (INEC), on Monday acknowledged that various recommendations by observer missions to elections held in the country had helped greatly in strengthening the processes and procedures of the commission, and reassured Nigerians and the international community of a free, fair, and credible elections starting on Saturday. The INEC chairman spoke on Monday when he received the Commonwealth election observer mission, led by Jakaya Kikwete, former Tanzanian President, Monday, at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja. He disclosed that it was the recommendation of the Commonwealth Observer Mission in 2015 that made the commission adopt the simultaneous accreditation and voting system that has now become part of the guidelines for the 2019 general elections, adding that INEC was open to suggestions and recommendations that could improve processes in line with international best practices. Looking back, he said the 2015 observer mission made 32 recommendations to be implemented by different institutions of government, and that INEC was advised to implement eight of the recommendations. He said the Continuous Accreditation and Voting was implemented administratively by the commission because it did not require the amendment of existing laws and regulations. His words: “We looked at the recommendations, and we have implemented those we could implement administratively, but those that require amendment of the constitution or amendment of the Electoral Act have to go through the legislative process. “But one important recommendation of the last observer mission was the system of accreditation and voting where the voters come, get accredited, then go and come back again to vote. “The last Commonwealth observer mission recommended we should abolish that archaic system. And that as soon as citizens are accredited, they should be able to vote at the same time. “And we have been implementing this recommendation since January 2016 when we conducted a governorship election in this country. “Since then we have conducted 96 elections and all have been conducted on the basis of simultaneous accreditation and voting or what we call Continuous Accreditation and Voting.”