Nigerians are in election period. The presidential and National Assembly elections were held yesterday, February 16, 2019,  while the Governorship and State Houses of Assembly polls will hold on March 2. However, the major point of worry to all citizens is the issue of electoral violence. Already, several people had reportedly been killed in pockets of violence related to the elections so far. For instance, during the flag-off of the All Progressives Congress (APC) rally in Lagos, there was a shoot-out between two supporters’ groups, during which at least five people reportedly killed while several others, including journalists, were severely injured. Also in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital, four people were killed and scores of people injured during stampede that occurred during President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign there. Also few days ago, one person was killed during a rally by the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Ondo State. In a related development, an APC supporter was killed during a campaign rally in Bayelsa. In another political rally in Kaduna, two people were reportedly killed and several others injured during a clash. These worrisome killings raise the issue of how to prevent violence at rallies. This is the new Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has assured that the policemen who would be posted to election duties during the on-going elections would be very professional in dealing with issues. He said: “From the strategies put in place by the former IGP, we will restrategise and make sure that we tackle these challenges squarely. “Well, we are professionals. We are going to stick by the rules, we are going to do the right thing. We will not go outside the ethics of our job to do things that are untoward, everybody will be given level playing ground to play his or her politics. “On the elections, you have heard from the former IGP, the adequate arrangement has been made to make sure that free and fair and credible elections take place in Nigeria. We are going to build upon the strategies put in place to make sure that we have hitch-free elections in the country.” What UNDP Says About Electoral Violence According to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), elections are by their nature adversarial as they are contests for power. According to the agency, “In a multi-party election, registered political parties are trying to persuade voters to support their party rather than another. In attempting to garner support from voters contesting parties/candidates will criticise each others programmes and manifestos, question their track records, etc, on the one hand to resorting to physical violence, intimidation and threats. “Election-related violence is contextual and can be anticipated within a country specific context. Where a country is emerging from a long history of armed conflict or political violence, or the current political climate is one of tension and conflict, or the events surrounding the previous election are unresolved, and whether the electorate and public at large has between one election to another, continued to express its dissatisfaction about the outcome, or restrictive legislation or only state owned media is available to contesting parties, or misuse of public funds, property by the ruling party will provide a framework as to the nature and level of election related conflict is likely to occur. Depending on the nature of the conflict so the level of violence will arise. Aside from the above many other issues may generate conflict in the election process itself: These include allegations of fraud and rigged polls; refusals to participate owing to unhappiness with the shape of earlier negotiation processes, perceptions of being sidelined through such measures as constituency demarcations or simply fears of loss of power (UDPS boycott – Kasais and Kinshasa); active disruption of the voting process by spoiler groups; disruption owing to problems in voter rolls – especially in situations where many have been displaced owing to violence in their home regions; challenges to the legitimacy or impartiality of electoral commissions, monitoring bodies, courts or other decision-making or dispute resolution bodies; harassment of voters by police or armed forces. Traditionally, electoral laws have identified courts as the appropriate instrument to deal with election-related conflict and aberrant conduct. This has usually been within the ambit of the judicial system involving courts of law. In some countries special electoral tribunals or electoral courts have been established to deal specifically with electoral related conflict.” UNDP also maintained that violence is the greatest threat to free and fair elections in new and emerging democracies. Perhaps a useful distinction should be made between violence aimed at disrupting an election by those who have no interest in a particular election taking place, and election violence triggered by the rivalry between contesting political parties and or candidates. In the former, the might of the national security services can be mobilised against the obstructionists. Good local surveillance by citizens and community-based organisations (CBOs) can help to prevent such mischief from taking root by reporting suspicious behaviour in the neighbourhood in a timely manner. UNDP maintained that violence instigated or openly encouraged by candidates or political party functionaries can be checked or controlled by a number of measures, such as codes of conduct for political parties and their supporters backed by strong sanctions. It stated that intensive voter/civic education programmes with respect to election campaigns and polling should be undertaken on a timely basis. Special attention should be given to preparing political parties and candidate for election losses. A prominent role should be reserved for community-based organisations which are interested in election conflict prevention locally. Electoral management bodies also have a role to play with respect to the establishment of structures for stakeholders, particularly political parties and civil society organizations, within which they can discuss preventive measures against election violence. The UN agency opined that the electoral legislative scheme should pronounce itself clearly and firmly by way of stiff penalties for election violence. There should be a transparent regime for the speedy redress of threats of violence and of all types of election disputes. It maintained that the best approach to electoral violence is “Avoiding It!” CDHR Condemns Deaths At Political Campaign Rallies The Committee for the Defence Of Human Rights (CDHR) on its own, condemned the high rate of deaths at rallies organised by political parties. Malachy Ugwummadu, National President of CDHR, said the deaths were “avoidable and disturbing”, stressing that no election campaign is “worth the spilling the blood of innocent Nigerians”. He said: “It must be recalled that several people have been killed in a stampede on Tuesday, February 12, 2019, during a political campaign rally organised by the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), which took place in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. “In the same vein, on January 8, 2019, violent clashes between members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers and party supporters marred the inauguration of the campaign of the Lagos State APC gubernatorial candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in Ikeja. “No election campaign is worth spilling the blood of innocent Nigerians who are expressing their support for their political candidate by simply exercising their fundamental right to assemble freely, associate with other persons and belong to any political party for the protection of their interests as provided for by Section 40 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended).” Ugwumadu urged the Nigerian government and all parties to put in place plans to avoid deaths at rallies. “Rather than only render apologies for these unfortunate deaths, the CDHR demands tangible attempts must be made by governments at all levels to ensure that such avoidable loss of lives does not occur in any future political campaign rally organised in Nigeria,” he said. APC Should Be Blamed For Violence In Its Rallies – Lawyers Patrick Ayiti Momodu, a Benin-based lawyer, said: “Most of the violence witnessed in the current rallies happened mostly within the same party which is the ruling party. “This I may describe as self-inflicted injuries. It started right from their primaries and I foresee a situation whereby the party might go into extinction if they lose the presidential election. This is happening because many of the leaders want to be godfathers. “What happened in Ogun State is the beginning of what will happen to the party later, unless the leaders allowed democracy to run its course. I also blame the incident on security lapses on the part of the security agencies for failing to provide adequate security, knowing full well that the president will be around. It is an eye opener to the security agencies.” Those Found Culpable Should Be Punished – PDP Chieftain Hon. Oseloka Henry Obaze, former governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  and chairman of PDP Presidential Council, said: “There is no reason why in any gathering there should be stone throwing or pelting of pure water into the crowd, least of all a crowd where there are VIPs, including a Head of State. “Such act, I condemn clearly, and in the strongest terms. When you throw a stone in the market place, there is a possibility it may hit your mother or relative. Same thing in a rally when you throw a missile. That act should be condemned and those people found culpable must be must be treated as those who infringed public peace and appropriate punishment meted out to them.” Obaze said there ought to be better security at the venues. He added: “The truth is that rallies are not like football match when there are two opposing sides. A PDP rally is for PDP and APC for APC. We in PDP have never had any incident where our leaders are pelted with stones and middles. “It has happened in APC, it is not a sign of disillusionment in the party so the party should look into itself, within its rank and file to know those who are troublesome  enough to engage in such acts that is not acceptable. Security Agencies Should Be Alive To Their Responsibilities – APC Spokesman Hon. Igboeli Arinze  Zonal Publicity Secretary, Anambra Central of All Progressives Congress (APC), said: “I would like to correct the wrong impression that the President was attacked. He wasn’t. What we saw was the venting of anger on the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, due to the perception that he denied the All Peoples Movement (APM) candidate, who was formerly of the APC and the choice of Governor Ibikunle Amosun. “Now, the APM is supporting President Buhari and because of his relationship with the president, the two parties attended the rally. So, what we saw was that when Oshiomhole wanted to raise Dapo Ojo’s hand, the members of the APM were irked and started attacking Oshiomhole. Thus, I think it is wrong to allege that it was President Buhari that was attacked. “However, I think violence can much be prevented when the security agencies are alive to their responsibilities. Anything short of this, would never remedy such.” Candidates Involved In Violence Should Be Severely Dealt With – AGA Chief Amadirionye Cornelius Iwunna, Chairman, All Grassroots Alliance (AGA), Orsu LGA in Imo State, stated: “If a particular candidate is directly linked with any form of violence in any voting/collating centre, he should be tried and prosecuted. At the end of the day, if there is an overwhelming evidence against him and if it is established beyond all reasonable doubts, he should be disqualified from the race. “Again, if chieftains of his party and his agents are caught in any form of violence while the polls last and he emerges victorious, his victory should be ceded to his closest rival not found guilty of violence. “With this, I think they will be compelled to honour the content and spirit of the peace accord they signed prior to the election. “Prevention of violence at rallies is a herculean task. Do you know who is who, his intentions and mission of coming to rallies? “To me, if you want to prevent violence at rallies, you have to limit the number of people who will attend and also issue them accreditation cards. Security should be beefed up at the venue of the rallies and it should not be an all comers’ affairs.”