ABUJA – Prospects of undergraduates returning back to campus before the general elections commence may have been dashed one more time, as a consultative meeting between the Federal Government and Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) met a brick wall on Friday. The outcome marked the ninth time in a space of three months such deadlock has occurred. The strike which began early November 2018 was to compel government to meet a number of demands agreed upon in 2009,some of which bothered on welfare packages, earned allowances as well as the needs assessment exercise carried out in all public universities. Even though the government has shifted grounds on some of the lecturers demand, the issue of university revatilisation fund appears to be the major bottleneck stalling the suspension of the strike. While the union is insisting on the government releasing the sum of N50 billion as part of the first tranche of the revitalization fund, the government has said it does not have the resource and cannot afford to release N50 billion and has offered N20 billion which the union rejected. However after pressures mounted on ASUU to suspend the strike, the executive of the union said they needed to consult with their members before such decision can be made. Both at the end of their meeting at Ministry of Labour and Employment, both parties emerged without resolving the issue and were not forth coming on what they discussed. Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige was evasive when asked the outcome of the meeting, saying “The meeting was protracted, but the good news is that we have gotten to the end of the tunnel.” On what has been agreed on as money to be released by government as revitalisation fund, he said “We meet them half way, we have finished the grey areas and on the issue of N50 billion , we have offered what we have. We do not have N50 billion and we cannot do N50 billion but has offered them something reasonable. So they have taken it back to go and present to their members.” He however expressed hope that students will return to school soon, saying “we will know when they will go back by Thursday.” ASUU President, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi was also evasive, but said “we have adjourned till Thursday.” Asked the level of progress made so far, he said “I cannot tell you that now until I tell my members. It is the feedback we came for today, but we have set of information for our members until we tell our members we cannot tell you.” On the N50 billion demand by the Union, the ASUU President said “Until we meet our members, we cannot give any information. But we are making progress and the progress we are making is for everybody interest, and stakeholders will benefit at the end of the day. We will be meeting on Thursday, after which, we will address the press, ” Ogunyemi said.