Kaduna – Sixteen people were on Monday night killed in a fresh banditry at Dalijan, Rakkoni and Kalhu communities in Rabah Local Government Area of Sokoto State. Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State made the announcement at a news conference on Tuesday in Sokoto. The banditry, which started in Sokoto on July 9 last year, has taken a total of 81 lives. The governor called on security agencies to intensify efforts at safeguarding the people’s lives and property. Commiserating with victims and their families, Tambuwal prayed Allah to grant them the fortitude to bear the loss. On the recent political happenings after the just-concluded presidential and National Assembly elections, Tambuwal expressed his concern that some politicians were indulging in do-or-die politics. The governor said the situation had negated calls for peaceful campaigns and elections devoid of thuggery. “During the elections, we experienced developments that clearly exhibited continued determination of the opposition to engage in do-or-die politics. “Leaders and loyalists of our party, the PDP, were harassed, hounded and arrested by security agents even on the election day. “The opposition also engaged in post-election mayhem, with attacks and arson on law-abiding citizens”, Tambuwal claimed. “Many properties and houses were razed in Wamakko and Kware towns as well as parts of Sokoto metropolis in a show of terror against perceived opponents and non-partisan members of the public.” According to him, many polling units identified as PDP strongholds had logistic and technical problems with delayed balloting to very late hours. “We were aware of efforts to engage electoral officials and security agents by the opposition with a view to compromising their integrity. “These manifested through various machinations and techniques that included the late hour transfer of security officials and replacement of electoral officers.” He emphasised that his administration was committed to free and fair elections conducted in a peaceful atmosphere and freedom. “Our concern is greater victory through winning ballot boxes. “Our objective for seeking your mandate is for service to the society rather than proving our strength as we demand chance for our people to choose or reject us in their own free will.” Tambuwal urged the populace to continue to be patient and law-abiding as more critical elections that had direct bearing to people’s lives were coming in the next few days. He appealed to people to recommit themselves to the democratic process, stressing that people should prepare to come out and elect leaders of their choice. The governor said that the people should not allow ourselves to be intimidated or terrorised to the extent of failing to discharge their civic duties in the remaining elections scheduled for March 9. Several Killed In Renewed Kaduna Attack Meanwhile, it emerged on Tuesday that another round of bloodletting had broken out in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Daily Independent sources said there was an attack on Maro, a community in the local government area. Tension had built up in the area before the election over claims by the Fulani that some persons had murdered their people in cold blood. The anxiety had affected commercial and social activities as residents remained in their houses to monitor situation in the state before going out for fear of attack by the Fulani as they had witnessed in the past. When it was not clear who had carried out the latest attacks, Daily Independent put a call to the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo, who promised to call back, but failed to do so as at the time of filing this report. However, a resident, who confirmed the attack, said most of the people affected were from Karmai village in Maro ward of the local government area. The gunmen, dressed in military uniform wearing mask, were said to have invaded the community early Tuesday, shooting people and burning houses. Another resident said some people in the village attempted to repel the attack but could not withstand the superior fire power of the gunmen. “The gunmen came this morning, over 100 of them. They were fully dressed in military uniform. Initially our people attempted to repel them, but they couldn’t withstand the superior firepower,” he said. The source said the attackers also overpowered a team of mobile policemen deployed in the community after the attackers struck. He said a vehicle of the ‘Operation Yaki’, the state government security outfit, that conveyed the mobile policemen to the area was burnt. “Mobile policemen came but also retreated, one operation Yaki vehicle was burnt by the bandits. Soldiers have been deployed to the community and are engaging them. The fight is still going on. “Our people have been killed and our houses have been burnt. For now, it is difficult to say how many people have been killed until the situation is calm,” he added. Danladi Yarima, former president of the Adara Development Association (ADA), described the attack as unfortunate, calling on security agencies to “act fast to stop the destruction of lives and property”. Mrs. Irimiya, a resident of Maro Karami village in Kajuru Local Government Area, had revealed to reporters that the attack started about 6:30a.m. She said she and some other villagers were in church when they heard gunshots, prompting them to take to their heels. She said the attackers, who were identified by villagers as Fulani people, razed the whole village. They also pursued some villagers into the bush shooting at them, she said. She, however, could not confirm casualty figures even though some of her family members were missing. She said: “It all started while we were in the church during women’s fellowship in ECWA church when we heard gun shots and we all went out. “As we all went out, we saw some of the houses being burnt by the attackers and some of the attackers were chasing people into the bush to kill them. “I do not know the whereabouts of my family members. I am on my way to another village that is close to ours.” She said the situation was partially brought under control when soldiers arrived. Another villager, who simply identified herself as Rachael, said at least six people were dead by her count. She said some Fulani herders stormed the village in the early hours of Tuesday in search of their lost cows, but that things later took a different turn when they started shooting at people. “Many houses were burnt, including the church where women where having their fellowship. “As I am talking to you right now, I have lost my uncle and my grandfather, and I have counted four other corpses,” a dejected Rachael said. The National President, Southern Kaduna Peoples’ Union, Solomon Musa, said the latest attack claimed a whole village. “What I’ve been told from several sources is that the whole village has been destroyed,” he said on Tuesday afternoon. Musa could not state the casualty figure as information he should have gotten from village heads came from other sources. This, he said, was due to the arrest of heads of villages in the area. Police Public Relations Officer in Kaduna, Yakubu Sabo, could not confirm the incident by Tuesday afternoon. The Kaduna government has expressed sadness over the fresh killings. In a statement by Samuel Aruwan, spokesman to Nasir el-Rufai, the governor, the government condemned the recourse to violence. “The Kaduna State government has today (Tuesday) received the sad news of renewed attacks in Kajuru and Kachia local government areas,” the statement reads. It added: “The government condemns this recourse to violence, and calls on all communities to support the efforts to restore calm in the area. “Today, the Kaduna State government was briefed by security agencies of renewed attacks in Kajuru local government area, and in parts of neighbouring Kachia LGA. “The Kaduna State government has been assured that the security agencies are working assiduously to contain the situation. “The government is saddened by these attacks, condemns the perpetrators and urges all residents of the area to support the security.” The attacks on Tuesday happened barely two weeks after over 100 people were reportedly killed in Kajuru. Also on Tuesday, President Muhammadu Buhari met behind closed doors with Gov. Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. It was gathered that the governor may have used the opportunity of the meeting to brief the president on the fresh violent attacks in Kajuru and Kachia local government areas of his state. The outcome of the meeting between the president and El-Rufai, which lasted for less than an hour, was still being awaited as at the time of filing this report. El-Rufai had on February 19 told State House correspondents, after briefing an expanded security meeting presided by President Buhari, that the death toll as a result of the communal clash in Kajuru Local Government Area of the state had risen to 130 as against the previous figure of 66.