“To the vulgar eye, few things are wonderful That are not distant” – THOMAS CARLYLE Confederation of African Football (CAF) recently made an inspection tour of AFCON 2019 facilities in preparation for the football championship which Egypt will host in June. The inspection of facilities includes venues, infrastructure and state of preparedness, not leaving out security assurance and transportation of players from their hotels to training sessions and match venues proper, throughout the duration of the Championship, which ends in July. Egypt is not a new name when it comes to hosting the CAF tourneys either in the graded category or at this level where all the participating nations usually present their senior national teams. However, considering how the Northern African country got the hosting right when both Cameroon and South Africa were denied the initial nod to host, one would think CAF is up to some games. The hosting right did skip Cameroon for South Africa and eventually landed on the Soil of Egypt. Few days ago it was reported that CAF had embarked on inspection tour of Egypt to ascertain the state of readiness of the country towards hosting the competion. No doubt, inspection of facilities of designated stadia, security, transportation, hotel accommodation, and edibles which players will consume during their period of stay is paramount in the itinerary of organisers, be it CAF or FIFA. And if this is so, then CAF is not wrong in their recent inspection tour in Egypt. But the question is; “How timely was this inspection tour of Egypt?” This columnist is very sure that the African football governing body would have made their findings before now; therefore, methinks that the tour was just a formality to complete the itinerary of a hosting right. In less than four months’ time, the designated cities will be warming up to receive their hosts for the fiesta; hence, CAF is making real good their promise to host a hitch free championship in Egypt, considering the number of African Nations, Twenty-four of them, the first in history of the Championship and Egypt being the first experiment! Some of the designated cities include Cairo, the capital of Egypt; Suez; Ismaila; Port Said and Alexandra. None of these aforementioned venues in Egypt is new to hosting football tourneys; this is also considering the rating of Egyptian league and football in Africa. Therefore, Egypt cannot be said to be a novice in tourney planning and execution. But if the unexpected happens on the contrary for seeing Egypt as not being ready to host this particular football fiesta, then there would have been more to it than meets the ordinary eye. In this regard, I also want to postulate that if this shifting of the 2019 AFCON hosting right was under Cameroonian former CAF President, Dr. Issa Hayatou, the whole African countries would have started throwing tantrums on the personality of Hayatou with such insinuations that he is playing pranks in order to favour his country, Cameroon. I am not holding any brief for the former CAF top football administrator but common sense will reveal to everyone why the former FIFA Vice President is changing hosting right. Even with all the glaring excuses and very obvious facts on ground to effect the changes, nations will still cry foul why this is happening. Having said this, Africa is at peace with CAF and the very obvious reasons which necessitated the final award to Egypt! This is also wishing the country of the Pharaohs well in her preparedness to host the rest of African nations soonest! Good morning.