President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Atiku Abubakar, the candidate of the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and 71 others came together in Abuja to sign a peace accord for the 2019 general elections. The elections kick-started yesterday, February 16, 2019, in every pat of the country with the Presidential and National Assembly elections. The signing of the peace accord, which was said to be at the prompting of former President of Liberia, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, took place amid cheers by other election observers who was in attendance. It was held under the auspices of the National Peace Committee. Johnson-Sirleaf is leading the ECOWAS Observer Mission to Nigeria. The event, held at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, was also attended by other foreign and local monitors. The first accord was signed on December 11, 2018. What Buhari Said At The Event President Buhari, in his address after the signing ceremony, urged fellow contestants to commit to the final outcome of the polls. He said: “We, the presidential candidates are here to sign and commit ourselves to do all that is possible to ensure the success of the elections but most importantly to accept the final outcome. “I appeal to my fellow contestants to commit to these ideals so as to keep our country and people safe. INEC, our electoral umpire, has already assured us that they have done everything possible to ensure free and fair elections.” The president, who noted the anxiety in the air, especially coming after one of the most peaceful elections in the history of the country, in which he emerged the winner, expressed optimism that the players are mature in their disposition towards electoral outcomes. According to him, “Another election is upon us, and not unexpectedly, there is anxiety in the air. This is typical of any form of competition and contest, no matter how well prepared all contestants and regulators are. The forthcoming elections are very special and significant for the growth of our democracy. “First, they come immediately after one of the most peaceful elections in the history of our country. I am not saying this because I was blessed to emerge as the winner. “I am saying there have been a lot of fears and anxieties from within and outside Nigeria about the future of the country. We are hopeful that this is evidence that we are all maturing in our disposition towards electoral outcomes. We see this as an opportunity to grow our sense of political culture in Nigeria.” “I call on all Nigerians to contribute to the building of a viable polity by more active participation well beyond the mere casting of votes. Elections by themselves do not constitute democracy. It is the spirit of citizenship engagement that utilises the energy of citizens towards the attainment of good governance.” He said the electoral umpire had received all the resources it needed to perform its assignment, adding, “Our security agencies have been fully briefed and they know that their visible neutrality is key to the conduct, credibility and success of the elections.” Atiku Added His Voice Atiku, in his speech, appealed to every official and the leadership of INEC and the Nigeria Police to be fair arbiters while letting neutrality prevail. He stated: “As we prepare to sign off on this peace accord, as representatives of our party and people, may I freely quote the words of former President Goodluck Jonathan, which remains a benchmark, for me, taking into account the deep feelings that prevail as February 16, 2019, approaches: ‘My ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian.’ “For emphasis and in the spirit of fair play, I also urge our security agencies, not to embark on indiscriminate arrests of members of the opposition, 24 to 48 hours before elections, as had been the case in previous elections. “Hopefully, our democracy should emerge stronger from this process with the 2019 elections proving better managed than the 2015 process, which was adjudged free and fair with the then opposition’s victory unobstructed “Consequently, I also appeal to President Buhari to use his good offices to ensure that every eligible person who casts vote is confident in the process and in the belief that the vote will count. “Additionally, every candidate must remember that this election is about the future of Nigeria, therefore, we must abide by the will of the people as freely expressed through elections, under the terms of our constitution. “Despite concerns expressed by my party leaders concerning likely electoral malpractices and the intimidation of voters and observers, I trust that our election officials and security services will do their duty in accordance with their oath and obligations.” Abubakar Takes His Turn Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, former Head of State, and Chairman of the National Peace Committee and said the panel organised the event to ensure a peaceful conduct of all elections in the country. According to him, elections would not hold in the absence of peaceful atmosphere; even governance after election would not be peaceful without a peaceful environment. “Don’t make anything to make a bad situation worse,” he said, noting that disharmony among political parties retards Nigeria’s development. According to him, mere signing of the peace accord would not achieve the required objective “unless all other actors are forced to work with the same rules.” Abdulsalami alleged spreading of misinformation in the nation’s mosques and churches. “This must be contained,” he said. Gowon Makes Appeal Gen Yakubu Gowon, another former Head of State, urged the candidates to prevail on their supporters to conduct themselves with decorum during the elections so that in the future, there may be no need for foreign observers because the right disposition would have been assured. “May the winner be as dictated from above,” he said. Commonwealth Chief Scribe Speaks Patricia Scotland, the Secretary General of the Commonwealth, said millions of people across the world were praying for Nigeria and its people hoping that the elections would hold peacefully. She stressed that the presidential and National Assembly elections would be the sixth since 1999 when the country returned to democracy after military rule. She said all concerned should not fail by ensuring a credible and transparent election. Situation Room Boss Comments Clement Nwankwo, the Convener of the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, said it should be an opportunity for the country to get it right. He also urged security agencies to be neutral, noting that elections are not the responsibility of state institutions like the army, police and other security agencies. Those in attendance included former President of Tanzania, Jakaya Kikwete, who heads the Commonwealth Observer Mission; Festus Moghai, former president of Botswana, who is heading the Democratic National Institute and Republic National Institute, and INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu and Catholic Bishop of Sokoto, Mathew Kukah, as well as leaders of the political parties. However, since the signing of the peace accord, several Nigerians are worried that it did not contain any punitive measure against those who might break the accord. Thus the question arose: What type of punishment could be meted out to politicians who fail to honour peace accord? Peace Accord Should Be Backed With Free, Fair Elections – Lawyer Patrick Ayiti  Momodu, a Benin-based lawyer, said: “Any politician who reneged on peace accord he or she gracefully signed before an election, should be given the opportunity to explain why he or she failed to honour such agreement. “For instance, you can’t say because I signed any peace accord, therefore, I should not protest in the face of glaring irregularity against me by my opponents. Peace accord should be backed up with free and fair election. “You cannot say because I signed peace accord my supporters should not stop my opponents from carrying out irregularities, if they have the opportunity to do so. “In fact, I see this year’s elections as one where the ruling party is desperate to remain in power at all costs while the major opposition wants to return to power at all costs. “My children have just drawn my attention to a social media report and photograph of some bags of already thumb-printed ballot papers by one of the political parties impounded by the police in Kano. You see what I mean. “So, for a peace accord to have meaning, all stakeholders should play the game according to the rules because laws are made to prevent crime and injustice in the society and if such laws are respected and adhered to, peace will prevail in such society.” Political Leaders, Must Lead By Example – PDP Chief Hon. Oseloka Henry Obaze is a former governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and chairman of PDP Presidential Council. According to him, beyond punishment, the rule of law and civility calls on every politician, regardless of his status to conduct himself in a peaceful manner and to ensure that his staff and adherents do the same. Obaze said: “We, as political leaders, must lead by example. We must avoid hate speeches and utterances and engage in acts that are not acceptable to the public.” Severe Punishment Should Be Prescribed – APC Stalwart Hon. Igboeli Arinze, Zonal Publicity Secretary, Anambra Central of All Progressives Congress (APC), said “A severe punishment should be prescribed, both at local and international levels, to anyone who does violate the tenets of the peace accord as regards the forthcoming general elections. “This should entail arrests, and prosecution, no matter what divide the person who perpetuates such an act  comes from. “We must set a standard for electioneering in Nigeria and West Africa. By the time we set an example with some of these people, only then would they know that violence in an election does not pay.” Culprits Should Be Prosecuted, Banned From Politics –YDP  Strong Man Iwejuru Paul Egbujuo Obi, a chieftain of the Young Democratic Party (YDP), stated: “Politicians who fail to honour peace accord, which they entered into before elections, should be prosecuted and also banned from participating in the electoral process for life. “Failure to honour peace accord exposes one as a terrorist and as a deviant who does not mean well for one’s fatherland. “I do not think that there is straight jacket policy to avert violence at rallies. Human beings are difficult to manage and to control. Preventing violence is a matter of conscience. “Remember that there are people who are ever ready to sacrifice their lives just for a pittance. Give them just N2,000 and they will act out your script especially now that there is hunger in the land.” Nigeria Needs More Than Peace Accord –NCMP Candidate Comrade Ademola Babatunde Abidemi,  Presidential candidate of the Nigeria Community Movement Party (NCMP), has said he did not participate in the signing of peace accord by presidential candidates in the country because “it is not a holistic approach to our problems”. Abidemi added: “There was the need to tackle our problems from the root and not recycling of such exercise.” He then urged the National Peace Committee, organisers of the accord, led by Nigeria’s former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd), to focus more on ways to institutionalise free, fair and credible elections in the country. According to him, “such approach will mitigate against electoral fraud which is a major recipe for violence during and after elections.” The presidential candidate, however, commended members of the committee for their efforts to make Nigeria a better place for all and sundry, adding that ‘‘they are people who know the country like the back of their palms. And, we expect more from them.”