Temidayo Akinsuyi, Samuel Ogidan and Innocent Oweh Lagos / Abuja – Less than 12 days to the presidential election, all the five socio-political and cultural fora of leaders and elders on Sunday adopted the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar. Northern Elders Forum, Pan Niger Delta Forum, Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Middle Belt Forum as well as Northern Leaders and Stakeholders Assembly adopted Atiku at a special summit held in Abuja. The endorsement could be described as a major breakthrough for Atiku as the presidential election holds on February 16. The leaders and elders of these geopolitical zones noted that Atiku is the only candidate with the competence and vision to take Nigeria out of her present economic and socio-political quagmire. They said that for Nigeria to achieve unity, security and peace required for meaningful development, President Muhammadu Buhari should not be voted for as he is unfit to govern the country. In a communiqué released at the end of the meeting and read by Yinka Odumakin, the forum’s spokesman, the elders explained that they adopted Atiku as a consensus candidate because he has demonstrated deep understanding of the critical needs of the country. The communiqué reads in part: “The Forum adopts the candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the consensus candidate for the Office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as he has demonstrated the deep understanding of the critical need of the country at this time and possesses the capacity to proffer clear solutions in that respect.” The Forum also “called on all Nigerians, irrespective of religious or ethnic background to stand in unison and vote for Atiku Abubakar on the 16th February 2019 and ensure that they defend their votes.” They said that “the forthcoming elections are about the type of nation we need as adults and those for whom we have responsibilities, noting that since 1999 have we been challenged with the power to shape our future as these elections do.” The elders also advocated that the best candidate who should lead this nation should be one with clear understanding of the nation’s security challenges and a strong will and commitment to tackle them decisively and comprehensively. The elders said that such a leader must be “capable, intelligent, physically and mentally alert persons, with the strong will to improve the quality of governance, including the rebuilding of key and strategic national institutions to ensure that inclusiveness is reflected in all political and governance matters; to fight corruption as a national scourge with transparent commitment; and to pursue policies that address the needs of a nation with a huge population of young people who need quality education and opportunities to participate as productive adults in a thriving economy.” According to the communiqué, “The Forum, having concluded a thorough evaluation of all candidates aspiring to lead our nation through its current challenges and engineer genuine national rebirth, has decided to note that several of the younger candidates who presented themselves for the presidential election, demonstrated great capacity and promise to lead this country creditably and ensure that it engenders proper social and economic development to its people. “However, most of these qualified younger candidates do not, at present, have the machinery and structures to win a presidential election in Nigeria at present.” Speaking at the summit, leader of the Northern Elders Forum, Professor Ango Abdullahi, said, “We in the Northern Elders Forum arrived at our decision on the basis of strict principles. We later began to see that things are not going according to our expectations and our expectation is in the best interest of Nigeria. “We had alerted the presidency on all these but they played to the gallery by saying that we are scuttling Northern presidency. “So our resolution was published that Northern politicians who had failed should not expect support from the Northern Elders Forum. “The reality is that from the two major candidates, we go for the one with vision and capacity to deliver Nigeria. Based on our assessments etc, it is clear that a new leader should emerge for Nigeria and that leader is Atiku Abubakar.” Also speaking, the President of Ohanaeze, John Nwodo, said, “Today, we have a head of state who has reminded us of our ethnic and religious differences. “On restructuring, Buhari said it was not the problem of Nigeria, but Atiku excelled in his response to our questions on restructuring. “In four years, the Federal Government has taken more loan than the debt paid by Obasanjo.” He also lamented the failure of Nigeria to diversify to other sources of revenue when it is now known that the U.S. will soon be producing 12 million barrels of crude oil per day. Afenifere leader, Ayo Adebanjo, on his part, said, “I never foresaw that the government of the day will become so tyrannical when we started the programme. We are only asking God to confirm the election of Atiku as president. By voting Atiku, you are working for the survival of Nigeria. The evil tormenting us is doing everything to remain in power.” Chief Edwin Clark, former Federal Commissioner of Information and South-South Leader, said, “I join Ohanaeze, Afenifere, Northern Elders Forum and on behalf of the Niger Delta people, Atiku is our presidential candidate for a better and prosperous Nigeria. We must do away with the deceit of the President Buhari’s government.” Reacting to this development, the PDP described the endorsement of its candidate as a welcome development. Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary of PDP, said, “The endorsement is the position of Nigerians, who have suffered so much since Buhari came to power. It is not a surprise that they have endorsed Atiku Abubakar.” My Endorsement Will Challenge Me More, Says Atiku Reacting in a statement on Sunday, Atiku Abubakar said that he was moved to tears that in the midst of deep divisions and deliberate use of instrumentalities of state to set the people against themselves in the last three and a half years, responsible and respected leaders across Nigeria have agreed to come together for the purpose of endorsing his candidature for the February 16 presidential election. Atiku said: “The endorsement by the leading lights of our nationalities, Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Northern Elders Forum, Pan-Niger Delta Forum and Middle Belt Forum, is a loud statement that there is hope for our country as we go to the polls in a few days. “Today, we put aside all our prejudices to elect a president with religion and ethnicity playing no role in our elections. “I profusely thank our leaders across the country who have created this wonderful moment for us to come to the table of brotherhood. Once again, and in the words of our old National Anthem, we can proudly sing: ‘Though tribes and tongues may differ, in brotherhood we stand. “This has buoyed me to lead a Pan-Nigerian team that will give practical interpretation to what has been done by the time I take leadership of our country, by the grace of Allah, on May 29, 2019. “Many countries of the world have been led into disintegration by strongmen (one in each country) and we have seen how individuals who understand the management of diversities have rallied their people for unity. I have been chosen to unite our people and exactly that I will.” Explaining how he will run the country when elected, Atiku said, “I will run a properly federated Nigeria through constitutional reforms to bring out the best from all sections of Nigeria to make Nigeria work again like in the past when the Saudi Royal family came to Nigeria to access medicare. “We will promote an inclusive Nigeria based on productivity that every section of Nigeria will bring out the best under their soil, and in their brain to make Nigeria assume its position in Africa and the global community. “It would be 100% for every section of Nigeria as I would not understand any arithmetic outside that. “I enjoin our people across Nigeria to come out en mass to vote on February 16 to pull our country from the brink and propel it to greater heights so we can live a better life. Take my words as a covenant with Nigeria.” Afenifere, Ohanaeze, NEF, PANDEF Hardened PDP Sympathisers – APC Meanwhile, the APC Presidential Campaign Council on Sunday has described five socio-cultural associations that endorsed Atiku as hardened PDP supporters and sympathisers. In a statement signed by its spokesperson, Festus Keyamo, the APC said the groups consist of few individuals who do not represent the interest of the regions they claim. The APC said those behind these organisations are individuals who are unhappy because they do not enjoy government patronage under the Buhari administration which has eliminated them as middlemen but now reaching out to the masses directly through various people-oriented projects. The statement reads, “We read, with amusement, two developments in the press today which underscore the desperate situation the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) finds itself right now. These developments are: the so-called PDP-induced ‘endorsement’ of its candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, by a few individuals claiming, albeit falsely, to represent their respective regions. These are PANDEF, Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF), Ohanaeze Ndigbo, a tiny faction of Afenifere and Middle Belt Forum. “Firstly, as regards the endorsements by the above-named socio-cultural groups, there is no fraud bigger than that of known PDP members and/or hardened PDP sympathisers wearing the apparel of socio-cultural groups, purporting to represent entire regions and endorsing their own political party. “The impression given through these endorsements that PDP is expanding its support base is also an attempt to deceive Nigerians because these are groups that supported PDP in 2015 and lost the election along with PDP. Therefore, their excuse that they are supporting Alhaji Atiku Abubakar because of the bogey called ‘restructuring’ is nothing but a subterfuge.” This Gang Up Against Buhari Will Fail
— Presidency The presidency said on Sunday that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is hiding in the bunker of ethnicity to avoid their inevitable defeat, saying that won’t change anything. According to a statement by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesman, “The current scenario resembles efforts to stop Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 by the same characters. It is an effort to repeat the old experiment that failed is 2015. They failed to stop him from coming to power in 2015 and they will fail yet again on February 16th. “If all these groups are ganging up against one person, that is President Buhari, it tells you who is the formidable candidate in the election. This gang up they forged, one more time will change nothing. It is for the people to decide.”