LAGOS – Former workers of the defunct national carrier, Nigeria Airways have criticised past Nigerian Government for their inability to offset their 20 years severance packages and pension despite the array of promises. The former workers, however, lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring 50 per cent payment of their severance packages within three years of his administration, saying that the ex-staff would support the President’s re-election bid. Speaking with aviation journalists yesterday at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, Engr. Lookman Animashaun and Mr. Sam Nzene, representatives of the former national carrier, lamented that since the airline was liquidated in 2003 by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, subsequent Nigerian governments, apart from late Umaru Yar’Sdua had been issuing promissory notes without fulfillment. Animashaun noted that Buhari in his campaign promises, vowed to ensure the payment of the former workers of the national carrier, stressing that he walked the talk with the part-payment of 50 per cent benefits, representing N22.5bn of the total sum of N45bn last December. He assured the workers that as promised, Buhari would pay the balance of their gratuities as promised, noting that if the past governments had paid them their benefits, the over 800 colleagues who died as a result of lack of resources to purchase drugs would have still been alive today. Animashaun, however, said that to show appreciation to the government, the former workers of the airline would this Friday, February 8, 2019 organise a support rally for Buhari at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, while a similar one would also be held in Kano, next Tuesday. He said: “Past regimes promised to ensure payment of our benefits and even used it for campaign, but it never come to fruition. Their stock in trade was promises that were never kept, but President Buhari promised to pay us and he kept to his words. President Buhari is the man who has wiped away our tears after 14 years of neglect, humiliation and frustration by previous administration, which led to the death of over 800 of our members. “The rally is designed to show appreciation to Mr. President and his lieutenants including Senator Hadi Sirika, Minister of State for Aviation, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance as well as their Permanent Secretaries and the administrative staff who took the bull by the horns.”