Osogbo – Kingmakers in Edun-Abon, Ife North West Local Council Development Area of Osun state, have kicked against alleged imposition of candidate as traditional ruler of the town by the local government. The kingmakers, Olosi of Edun-Abon, Morirungbere and Oluokun of Edun-Abon, who jointly addressed a press conference on Thursday, said the local government was behind  the crisis The head of kingmakers, Olosi of Edun-Abon, Chief Olatidoye Oyedokun, explained that only the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has the authority to give consent to the candidate and inform the council on the installation of the new Salu of Edun-Abon. In a chieftaincy declaration of 1957 made available to news men, it was stated that “the consent of the Ooni of Ife is required to an appointment made by the kingmakers. They stated that the kingmakers have screened all the 12 candidates presented by Lamba, Amoloye and Ajimajasan ruling houses, and Prince Nasiru Bolawole Adebayo emerged. According to the kingmakers, Ooni had on November 22 gave his consent to the installation of Adebayo as the new Salu before other contestants kicked. They alleged that one of the Princes brought a letter, purportedly signed on November 29 after Governor Rauf Aregbesola had left on November 27. The letter, according to the kingmakers, was queried by Ooni, but the aggrieved Prince could not explain how they got the letter and instead resulted to violence. In a report on the selection of new Salu of Edun-Abon sent to Ooni of Ife on September 14, 2018, the kingmakers had presented Adebayo of Amoloye compound to Ooni as new Salu of Edun-Abon. The kingmakers expressed surprised on the alleged invasion of the palace by Prince Oladepo Kehinde of the same Amoloye ruling house and burnt the palace. They alleged that the attempt was to steal the beaded crown which has been heavily protected by the kingmakers since the demise of the late Salu. The town has been engulfed in serious crisis as the duo of Princes Adebayo and Oladepo have been laying claim to the stool.