Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, popularly called GNI is the Ogun State governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on his chances in the forthcoming governorship elections, his agenda if elected and other issues. Excerpts: Having contested twice for the governorship position of Ogun state and lost, what motivates you to enter the race for a third time? Yes, I am running for the governor of Ogun for the third time. I first ran in 2011 and 2015. I am very optimistic that given all the factors, this time around I will be able to get it. I am from the Yewa bloc of Ogun state in Ogun West Senatorial District. I bring to the table, first my capacity, experience, knowledge and exposure. I make bold to say that among all the people that are contesting for the governorship position in Ogun today, I can beat my chest that when it comes to the candidate with a rich knowledge of the state, passion and track record that gives a positive indication as to what to do when elected into office, I make bold to say that I am poles apart from the other candidates. In addition to that is the fact that I come from a part of the state that has not produced the governor. I have always said that my certificate or qualification or what I put on the table for this office is not where I come from, it is who I am; though where I come from happens to be an advantage because indeed, when there is no equity, there cannot be peace. Therefore, I believe based on the principle of equity, where I come from, which is the Yewa axis of Ogun gives me an advantage. Having traversed the entire nook and crannies of Ogun state and having managed the investment of the state for about 7 to 8 years with a record that I am proud of even till now, and having been around on the streets all this while without and scandals around me, I believe I have what it takes to pilot the affairs of the state. The belief by some people is that you are well known in political circles, but that your party, ADC is not very popular which may affect your chances. What is your take on this? Let me first of all correct the wrong impression that my party, African Democratic Congress (ADC), is not a well-known political platform in Ogun State; maybe before now that statement may be necessary. But in the last couple of months now after our electioneering campaign, ADC has now become the fastest growing political party in Ogun State with great acceptance by the people. Again, I want the people to also know that the individual coming to power is a more significant factor since it is human beings and human factors that drive political parties and political administration. To God be the glory, I can emphatically mention here that the brands GNI and ADC are now prominently well known to the people of the state, as a leading candidate and leading party in this coming general election. What are your plans for Ogun state if elected? My intention is to achieve what we called ‘A Greater Ogun State’. That is premised on the fact that Ogun state has lots of potentials. It is not so much about who has done what or who has not done what. While that is there, I think the important thing is that we have quite a lot of potentials in human and material resources. Good location is also an advantage to us that we can explore for a better development of Ogun State. That is what we want to try and do if elected. In doing that, we also want to make sure that we put into place certain areas that we consider important; education is key in what we want to do. Health is also another key area we want to look at. Job creation is also one of the seven-point agenda that we have towards a greater Ogun state. We also want to look at Agriculture and rural roads and inter-community roads. Our roads in Ogun state are in deplorable condition, so we are giving infrastructure priority too. We also want to look at our border towns which are number 6 on our agenda. Our border towns and communities that shares boundaries with Lagos where we believe we have lots of potentials that we can tap into. Infrastructures in those areas are particularly bad yet the population is increasing by the day. In addressing that challenge, we want to set up an agency that will specifically look at those things. In doing that, we will be able to grow our economy and economic activities will grow there. Finally, we will improve the relationship with the public servants and general reorientation of our people. Value system is broken down everywhere in the in this country and it is reflected in everything we do, including our electoral systems. We have a situation where elections have turned to bazaar as it were. So, we just have to find a way to continuously push for what is our society is known for; things like values, ethics, hard work, honesty, patriotism and so on. Even if it is a small percentage that buys into it, we will continue to do that. So, as a government, we want to do that through our traditional institutions and religious bodies. Most importantly, we want to run government with a good heart, passion and to leave a lasting legacy that the generation coming after us will be proud of because at the end of the day, what we do is determined by who we are more than what we have done. You are contesting against a candidate that has the support of the ruling party at the centre and another that has the support of the incumbent governor. What are your chances? We are hoping for the best and our chances are very good. With the people, we do not have any problem. Yes, the issue of vote buying has crept into our polity and it reflected a lot in the last election but also in the midst of that, we have situations like in Oyo state where the incumbent governor lost a senatorial election. So, I believe that within that darkness, there is light. We believe that given the quantum of relationship that I have built with the people, no matter the amount anybody spends, I will triumph. We have worked very hard and as such we believe that the present scenario will work in our favour. The other political platforms, especially the bigger ones have their own internal issues. We believe that if we put all these together, we will triumph. That does not mean we are deceiving ourselves that it is going to be an easy ride. Definitely it is not because we are fighting incumbency at the state and at the national level. But the truth of the matter is that they are also fighting themselves. So, within all the fights and the fact that we have been close to the people and we have done everything necessary to give us victory, we believe that given a free, fair and credible exercise, we will carry the day. What are your plans for the youths in the state who constitutes the largest bulk of the voting population, especially regarding creation of jobs? The biggest threat to sustainable democracy in our nation today is the issue of youth employment and poverty.To me, employment issue is not only a social and political issue but also a key economic matter. It brings to the fore the tension between the haves and have-nots; it creates self-respect and builds stable societies, strong families and communities. While it is true that it is the responsibility of the government to take care of her citizenry it is not out of place for our educational institutions, in collaboration with financial institutions, to initiate academic and economic programmes that will create job opportunities for our young graduates in different fields of human endeavours. By so doing we will be doing ourselves a great favour to secure our environment and create a lasting peace around us.With the ways things are going, Youth empowerment transcends what any serious government should give cosmetic attention, as currently being witnessed in the state. There must be deliberate efforts geared towards reducing the yearly inflow of our jobless graduates into the society if we must banish poverty and penury.To this effect, if elected, my new administration shall look inward into the employment generation scheme of the incumbent administration with a view to benefit from its experiences, successes and challenges for us to work out a better option like the OGEGEP, OSAMCA, etc. The agencies responsible for youth development and employment generation should be given adequate attention. The government should come up with new programmes for development of human capacities and capital development. Our state owned tertiary institutions must, as a matter of urgency, design entrepreneurial curricular with State government and financial institutions in partnership to create jobs and wealth opportunities. I’m confident that with good funding, good leadership, and no corruption we shall impact some positive changes. I have also found that about 40 per cent of unemployed graduates would prefer to go for further studies; the state’s scholarship scheme should therefore be expanded with greater funding to accommodate more students on graduate studies while the curriculum should be reviewed to accommodate practical experience that would enable most of the students be an employers of labour upon graduation. There must be an understanding between the government and industries operating in the state to assist in employment generation through special schemes that will be introduced. There are concerns over what becomes the fate of various uncompleted projects in the state, what will you do about this if elected as governor? The noblest political service any politician can render to the people is to provide necessary social amenities for improved social services to the people and where the amenities are available; their proper maintenance should be of major concern to the government. The people of Ogun State will want to see multiple clusters of roads construction and rehabilitation of existing bad roads, rural electrification projects, development of new housing units and estates, building of new blocks of classrooms and renovation of existing structures, renovation and building of new office complexes, renovation and upgrading of existing stadia facilities, construction and renovation of hospitals as well as provision of other infrastructure needed for enhancement of living standards of the people. Ogun State, in the last eight years, no doubt, has witnessed road construction in some parts of the state and neglect of other socio-infrastructural transformation within the dynamics of modern state building. Our administration in the state therefore would have a lot of challenges to contend with to really surpass the achievement of the incumbent administration in this aspect of physical development. To this effect, an audit of all state facilities must be carried out to ascertain their availability, usefulness, state of being vis a vis the need for new ones. I am convinced that supply of social infrastructure must always be ahead of demand in order to make our strategic planning for growth more realistic. In addition to improving the existing infrastructure through routine maintenance by responsible government agencies, new projects should be conceived and targeted in phased reconstruction, modernisation, expansion, and redevelopment to add to the aesthetic value of the state. All government agencies should be charged to nurture a development plan to accommodate expansion. We shall ensure equitable distribution of state infrastructure in such a way that no zone or division will suffer neglect or marginalisation as being witnessed under the present administration. Our administration will embark on sustainable developmental projects that will have user value to generate employment, create wealth and transform the communities from poverty to prosperity. Our vision therefore is to fully integrate Ogun State in the league of states where the citizens have good standard of living and a fair degree of contentment. Having said this, let me note here that the singular error most Nigerian political leaders commit is in not finding anything good in what their predecessors have done. They rather prefer to start afresh which more often than not creates problems of policy inconsistency and a times violent reversals of policies and plans to the detriment of the system and various institutions of governance. This, of course, was the serious predicament in which we found ourselves when the outgoing administration came to power in the state. I want to assure you that many of the laudable projects in the urban renewal programme shall be completed and new ones will also be added where necessary, except the model school project that I have considered a colossal waste of state resources; even at that, the project shall be redirected as may be appropriate within the concept of our educational programmes.