Hon Balogun Rotimi Olatunbosun, a candidate of Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) for the Lagos State House of Assembly Ikorodu Constituency 1. In this interview with AFIS KAREEM, he speaks about his plans for the people of his consistency, his party and other issues of national interest. Excerpts: What are your chances of your party in the 2019 general elections? Our chances are bright in the 2019 general elections both at the State House of Assembly, National Assembly, Governorship and Presidency. Here in Lagos State, there is going to be a serious contest because of our party’s growing popularity and acceptance by the people. The numbers of new developmental projects and human-friendly policies that we have will also increase our chances. You can all attest to this when our presidential candidate featured in the recent presidential debates aired on national television, where he coached other contestants about how to governed new Nigeria of our dream, you will agreed with me that our party Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) is a party of many choice, considering the manifestoes of our great party. What informed your interest to represent Ikorodu constituency 1 at Lagos State House of Assembly comes 2019? The general wellbeing of our people is of a great concern to me and more so, the way of life our youth is something one cannot ignored. I perceive politics as an important avenue to gain political power to represent my constituents through good governance and effective legislative for our people. Therefore, the interest and general wellbeing of the people of my constituency is what spurred my interest. Long before I ventured into politics, I had already serving my people in different capacities with my personal resources. I am the vice chairman of my CDA. I can tell you a lot we have done to ensure we have secured environment to live in. As a grassroots person who had a large heart and the feelings of people, I cannot but use my personal hard earn resources to cater for the less privileges, the youth, artisans and widows. In order to have a better positive change, I believe one of the best ways of making it work is through active political participation. Our old age mothers, youths, widows, artisans and less privilege are crying for help with no one to help because we lack effective legislative that can care for the needs of our people. I see my aspiration as a call to service and of a divine one. What are your plans for the people of your constituents if elected for Ikorodu Lagos House of Assembly seat? My plans for our people is to first have voice of their own at the assembly whereby their challenges can be address on time through bill presentations. The lives of our aged ones need to be look into especially the widows, who does not have access to our big political holders, I see this as a challenge, which one need not to overlook, I will ensure that 5000 people of my constituents, have access to Health Management Organization (HMO). On employment, I will ensure we have data base for all our unemployment graduates in my constituents to workout opportunities for them through public private partnership (PPP) and those with hand work, we will provide opportunities for them to showcase their skills and potentials and support them with finance. On education, I will ensure our schools have a new face of structures with security gadget. I will take it upon myself to have engaged the industrial companies around us here to solicit for Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) that will impact the lives of our people.