Temidayo Akinsuyi, Joe Aruga Omokaro, Tony Ezimakor and Innocent Oweh Lagos / Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), will tomorrow, Saturday, battle to get a better chunk of the 72, 775,500 votes at stake. On Thursday, they made their final appeal for votes for tomorrow’s presidential election, as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) insisted that Saturday’s vote would indeed come to pass. INEC had postponed the election six hours to start of voting on February 16, citing logistics reasons. Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman, INEC, assured that the commission was now poised to deliver credible polls tomorrow, having achieved 100% reconfiguration of the smart card readers, allaying fears that the electoral umpire was being pressured to compromise the February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections. He promised to be fair to all parties in the polls, and said the votes of Nigerians will count. Prof. Yakubu said a total of 72, 775,500 Nigerians representing 86.83 percent of the 84,004,084 registered voters have collected their permanent voter cards (PVCs) preparatory to cast their votes in the presidential, governorship, national and state assembly elections starting from tomorrow. He disclosed this on Thursday in Abuja at his daily media briefing on the commission’s readiness for tomorrow’s rescheduled presidential and National Assembly elections. The INEC boss told newsmen that 11,228,582 or 13.14 percent of the printed cards were yet to be collected. “At yesterday briefing, we promised to make public detailed information of collection of PVCs nationwide. The commission as a matter of policy has said that no citizen can vote without PVC issued by the commission and read by the card reader. “Having announced the total number of registered voters and the distribution by age, gender and occupation, the citizens deserve the right to know how many PVCs had been collected across the country. “The last day for the collection of PVCs was Monday, February 11, 2019, out of the 84,004,084 registered voters, the total number of registered voters stand at 72,775,502, which represent 86.83 percent of the PVCs.” Yakubu, however, said that a total of 11,228,582 printed PVCs or 13. 7 percent were uncollected. “Out of this figure, 7,817,905 PVCs were carried over from the 2014 to 2016 registration exercise, while 3,410,677 are from the last CVR held between April 2017 and August 2018. “All uncollected cards have been deposited with the CBN for custody.” Lagos and Kano states expectedly led the pack in PVCs collection with Lagos hitting 5,531,389 while Kano got 4,696,747. Lagos and Kano are followed by Kaduna, Katsina and Rivers states, respectively. Kaduna has 3,648,831 PVCs collected; Katsina has 3,187,988 PVCs collected while Rivers has 2.83 million PVCs collected. The states with the least number of collected PVCs are Ebonyi, 666,591; Bayelsa, 769,509 and Kwara, 1,149,969. The INEC boss also disclosed that aside Bayelsa State, electoral materials have been deployed in all 35 states at the end of Thursday, adding that Bayelsa because of its terrain would be concluded today. He said that in the case of Bayelsa State, INEC will deploy straight from INEC office to the registration area centres. According to him, activities will heat up at ward and registration area centres early morning today ahead of tomorrow’s polls. “Activities at ward level will commence with the activation of the registration area centres (RACs) at 9:00a.m while the movement of personnel and materials will commence at mid-day. This is the last staging post before deployment to 119,973 polling units leading to the opening of polls at 8:00a.m on Saturday”, he said. Asked if he will quit the job as requested by major political parties, the INEC boss also dismissed any intention to quit, insisting he and national commissioners have onerous national assignment to accomplish. He maintained that he had not contemplated the option, vowing to exercise the full powers granted the commission to proceed with the conduct of the elections. “I stated yesterday that I was not under any pressure. Am I certain I will conduct the 2019 election? Well, as at the last time I checked, and that is the situation as we speak, I am the chairman of INEC and constitutionally the chief electoral officer of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the returning officer of the presidential election. So my status has not changed. “And I’m proceeding on the basis of those powers I draw from the constitution for the position I’m privileged to serve, to conduct the 2019 election. “I see no reason to resign. I see no reason to even contemplate resigning. We stay focused as a commission. We will do the job that is there for us to do for country”, Yakubu said. He explained that the commission is determined to obey all lawful orders of the courts, adding that in the case of Rivers State APC, litigation on the eligibility of APC candidates had been sealed because of three different Supreme Court decisions on the matter. “Once a court issues an order, whether you agree with that order or not, you are duty bound to obey it. That is a constitutional provision. It is not a matter of choice. Unless that order is made by a lower court and is vacated on appeal or the order is made by the Supreme Court in which case that is the end of litigation. “We are following legitimate orders of court but if anybody disagrees with position taken by the commission, the best thing to do is to go to a superior court and vacate the orders but if it is the Supreme Court, that is unfortunately the end of litigation”, he said and insisted that INEC as a law abiding organisation will not sidestep the provisions of the law. On deployment of security personnel, he explained that the police remains the lead agency in all security matters and that on the basis of consultation, the police may delegate roles to sister security agencies at the request of INEC. He equally maintained that military, depending on the threat, is not expected to be close to the polling area. “The standard operating procedure is that the military will not be involved in the polling units, they will not be involved in the inner border but depending on the invitation they receive from the police they may take the role assigned to them by the lead agency of election security”, he noted. Also the commission hailed the Nigeria Immigration Service for granting INEC request for visa extension and re-entry visas to election observers. “In order to make the processes easier, the Nigeria Immigration Service, working with the commission, is granting extension of visa to all international observers who require such facility. Similarly, the Immigration Service is also granting re-entry visa to all observers who may wish to travel out of the country and return for the second part of the general election. In this regard, the Service has also requested me to convey its decision to waive the visa fee and treat all such requests expeditiously. “The extension of stay or re-entry into the country will be treated gratis. A special desk to handle those who wish to extend their stay as well as those travelling and coming back to Nigeria before March 9, 2019 has been set up at the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Two immigration officers have been assigned to carry out the ad hoc assignment”, he said. Appeal Court Clears Zamfara APC Candidates For 2019 Elections The Court of Appeal in Abuja has set aside a decision of the Federal High Court which affirmed the exclusion of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in Zamfara State from the forthcoming general elections. The lower court presided by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu had on January 25 ruled that INEC was right to have excluded the APC from the elections. The court said the primary election that produced the candidates was flawed. But in a ruling on Thursday, a three-member panel led by Justice Abdul Aboki described the lower court ruling as an “aberration”. The appeal agreed with lawyers representing the APC who argued that the motion brought before the lower court was filed outside of the allowed time. According to the judges, the application ought to have been brought 14 days from the date when the alleged electoral infraction occurred. The Appeal Court ruled that the filing of the matter, after 14 days at the lower court, made it impossible for the lower court to have jurisdiction on the matter. “The suit is hereby struck out for lack of want of jurisdiction on the part of the lower court. The judgment of the lower court is hereby set aside,” the court ruled late Thursday. Buhari Raises The Alarm Over Amount Of Forex Flooding Nigeria Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has raised the alarm that the country has been flooded with foreign currencies, obviously meant to influence tomorrow’s rescheduled elections. He made the allegations during the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting on Wednesday, but was conveyed in a statement on Thursday by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. “I am astonished at the huge amount of foreign currency flooding the country intended to influence the general elections beginning on Saturday”, Buhari was quoted to have complained during the FEC meeting. The president also accused some politicians of flouting money laundering regulations in their desperate bid to capture political power.President Buhari, however, commended the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for successfully tracking the money in “millions of United States dollars.” The EFCC success followed the presidential directive to investigative agencies to probe a number of high profile cases. Reassuring the nation of his administration’s determination to wage a relentless war against money laundering and terrorist financing, the president again appealed to Nigerians, especially politicians to place the interest of the country above all others, as they troop out to cast their votes. Buhari, Atiku Make Final Appeal For Votes President Buhari and Atiku Abubakar on Thursday made final appeals for votes ahead of tomorrow’s elections. In a new video released by the presidency in Abuja, President Buhari appealed to Nigerians to brace the odds and turn out to cast their votes tomorrow. He said: “I want to commiserate with millions of Nigerians who either travelled hundreds of kilometres to cast their votes or put so many things on hold in order to cast their votes last weekend but couldn’t do so. I thank you for your commitment. I appeal to you not to lose hope in our electoral system. “I ask you not to allow the unexpected postponement of the elections by INEC to prevent you from exercising your civic rights. “Your enthusiasm is a process, and determination to vote in the elections must not be jeopardised. I ask all Nigerians to brace the challenges and make sure they cast their votes. “This government assures all voters of their protection before, during and after the polls. I also thank all Nigerians for their trust in our government to conduct credible elections, where your votes can count. “Your votes will count as we are committed to rid our electoral process of vote buying and intimidation. Thank you and God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” On his part, Atiku charged Nigerians to come out massively tomorrow to cast their votes in order to remove President Buhari from office. Atiku, in his message, said Nigerians did it in 2015 when they came out to remove former President Goodluck Jonathan from office, saying that they have the opportunity to do so again tomorrow. Atiku warned that if Nigerians failed to come out and vote, they would be accepting that the next four years would be like the last. “This Saturday, we have our presidential and National Assembly election. The reason we have election is to allow our voices heard on how we have been governed for the last four years and who will govern us for the next four years. “On March 28, 2015, we the people of Nigeria went out to our polling units and we were able to remove an incumbent president from office. “That made me very proud to be a Nigerian and a democrat. This Saturday, we will have the opportunity to do so again. My message to you is simple: please, come out and vote as this election is about your future and the future of your nation. “On election day, we are all equal. Your single vote is more important than any other and if you do not vote, you will be accepting that the next four years will be like the last.” Gowon, Joda, Kolade, Anya, Others Caution INEC, Politicians As the nation prepares for the rescheduled presidential and National Assembly elections tomorrow, former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon (rtd), and 13 other elder statesmen across the country have cautioned INEC as well as political party leaders, candidates and their followers to ensure that the election would be adjudged by all to be free, fair, and credible. In a statement endorsed by Alhaji Ahmed Joda, Prof. Akin Mabogunje, Dr. Christopher Kolade, Elder Shyngle Wigwe, Prof. George Obiozor, Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu Deen, Prof. Joe Irukwu, Prof. Anya O. Anya, Alhaji Ahmed Mahmoud Yayale, Chief Folake Solanke, Prof. Frank Okoisor, Rev. Ladi Thompson, and Chief Philip C. Asiodu, they noted that INEC could only achieve success if the contending parties regulated their behaviour and conduct in accordance with democratic norms. “Our first counsel to the nation as it approaches this new frontier is that INEC must be fully prepared to conduct the rescheduled elections seamlessly and efficiently in a manner that its outcome is adjudged by all to be free, fair and credible. “The political party leaders, the candidates and their followers should conduct themselves with civility, decorum and restraint in both their words and deeds in the period leading up to, during and the aftermath of the elections. “We urge all participants to accept the final results announced by INEC and, where parties feel aggrieved, recourse should be made to dispute resolution mechanisms prescribed by the constitution and the Electoral Act,” they stated.