Lagos – Barely one week after the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), in a preliminary report on the Vice President’s Helicopter crash, observed that Caverton Helicopters Limited, operators of the aircraft, did not conduct site survey, safety and risk assessment of the landing field prior to dispatch of the flight, stakeholders in the aviation industry sector have tasked Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on health and safety of aircrafts in the country. Specifically, they challenge NCAA, the industry regulator to take decisive action in accordance with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations 2006 (NigCAR 2006) against purveyors of fake news on the health or otherwise of the sector. Their observations are coming on the heels of recent unverified picture showing an operating aircraft with worn out tyres, which went viral. According to the purveyor of the ‘news’, the aircraft was still in operation in Nigeria and warned the public against flying in the country, saying that it was a disaster waiting to happen. But, investigations by our correspondent indicated that the aircraft in question was not operating within Nigeria, but however advised authorities to be proactive. Barr. Ahmadu Ilitrus, President of Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) said that such fake news had the propensity to eviscerate the confidence passengers had in air travel. Ilitrus said it has the potential of depleting the goodwill the industry in Nigeria had enjoyed in the last few years, having recorded zero accident in scheduled commercial aviation. He emphasised that no passenger would be willing to board an aircraft if safety and security was not assured. He however said that fake news could be curbed through mass awareness about its existence, adding that timely publication of clarification on subject of fake news by operators and NCAA would also help to curb its spread. He added: “NCAA has the responsibility to make timely clarification of fake news relating to serviceability of aircraft and competencies of airmen to perform flight duties whenever the need arises. As the regulator, the NCAA must continue to assure passengers and the general public on the security and safety of passengers by investigating the source and veracity or otherwise of the news and thereafter making public its findings.” Kingsley Ezenwa, Communications Manager, Dana Air said that fake news was not only in the aviation industry and Nigeria, but had become a global phenomenon. He decried that Dana Air had been the worst hit in the aviation industry in the country and expressed worry that aviation, as a critical sector did not deserve such unverifiable rumour. On how the menace could be curbed, Ezenwa called for more enlightenment for the flying public, insisting that the industry had recorded a remarkable and commendable safety record in recent time. He, however, lauded NCAA for its oversight functions on the industry and called for more enlightenment campaigns and speedy response to fake news from the regulatory agency. Also, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, President of Aviation Round Table (ART), condemned the spread of fake news in the sector. According to Olowo, fake news could ignite avoidable crisis, heat up the polity and could led to undue suffering of an innocent person. He called for caveat on every news item especially on social media without authenticating the source and called on the media regulatory agency to be more alert to its responsibility. He also charged NCAA to be more responsible to its responsibility by correcting erroneous, unfounded and sensational news item negatively affecting the sensitive and global industry at present. He described spread of fake news as criminal, while the purveyor should be dealt with in accordance with the law. Group Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), Managing Director of Centurion Security Services, said that he recently saw the picture of an aircraft with worn out tyres, but could not verify its authenticity. Ojikutu declared that the responsibility of identifying such picture information rested with NCAA through regular inspections, checks, periodic maintenance audits and surveys. He maintained that the purveyor of the picture could have reported the issue to NCAA through its non-disclosure of identity policy. Adeola Fadairo, an industry analyst, insisted that the viral picture was a game carried too far for the purveyors of fake news in general and aviation in particular. He described it as a bad omen for the industry, which well-meaning Nigerians should condemn. Fadairo, called on the deployment of technology to fish out the perpetrators of fake news in the industry and in the country at large. He warned that if not quickly nipped in the bud, such act could be catastrophic to the industry and instill panic to the millions of air traveling public, despite the sector being one of the most regulated in the world. “The implication is to put fire under the leadership of the regulatory body, NCAA as incapable of over-sighting regular ramps inspections, which is not really true. “We must embark on multimedia campaign to educate the public about the safety records of the industry,” he added. It would also be recalled that NCAA through a statement on the issue had declared that no any Nigerian airline could operate with a worn out tyre. The regulatory authority insisted that with all the various checks and counter checks put in place by it and combined with that of the operators, it was improbable that any airline in Nigeria would operate a service with that kind of tyre. The regulatory agency however advised the original author of the post or any other individuals with safety related issue, to furnish it with the identity of the airline or any of such information to enable it establish the authenticity of the claim and ensure appropriate action. The statement added: “According to the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs) Part 5.4.1.1(b) the authority shall issue a Certificate of Airworthiness for aircraft registered in Nigeria based on satisfactory evidence that the aircraft complies with the design aspects of the appropriate airworthiness requirements (type certificate) and is in a condition for safe operation. “It is the primary responsibility of the authority inspectors to ensure that all the parts of the aircraft complies with the applicable airworthiness requirements and remains in a condition for safe operation before every flight and throughout its operating life.”