LAGOS – The power of prayers cannot be over emphasised and the belief that it is only God that can divinely arrange the plan of men to perfectly work out in their favour. Women leaders and opinion makers of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gathered recently in Lagos to petition the Almighty God who they believe has the power to change the situation in their favour when they knelt down and called on him to turn the electoral fortune in their favour at the forthcoming elections. It was a meeting of South South, South East and Arewa women resident in Lagos, organized by the member representing Ajeromi Ifelodun federal constituency, Hon Rita Orji in Lagos recently, she said that the essence of the meeting was to tell Lagosians and Nigerians generally that it was only PDP that would give them peace and prosperity. She tasked them to elect PDP into power, urged them to come out en mass to vote for Atiku on the day of presidential election and protect their votes, and not fall to any form of intimidation by All Progressives Congress (APC) who she said had failed the country and still wanted remain in the office. Wife of the national chairman of the party, Pastor (Mrs.) Ene Secodus led the prayer session which was so electrifying as women were moved to kneel down as she made decrees in petition to God, she cried that the suffering was too much, asked the Almighty God to deliver the nation by giving victory to Atiku Abubakar and his running mate Peter Obi at the polls. She prayerfully told the Lord that a lot of Nigerians had lost their lives in the past three and half years, the youth had suffered unemployment and seen only hopelessness, noting that she was not a politician as such but knew how to pray, stressing that she would invoke the power and connection that she had with God to ask him to do a new thing in a new month. Mrs. Secondus said a lot of women had died because they could no longer suckle the babies, mortality rate of women was high and as long as women had womb, and were the ones who carried the pregnancies, they would use that privileged that God had given women to cry upon him and he would respond, noting that Nigerians had suffered enough, so many lives had been lost but she believed that God had a special place for women when they prayed, stressing that they were going to use that privilege to pray and God would turn the captivity of Nigerians around. Jennifer Atiku said that the onus was on women to take their destinies in their hands as mothers, noting that it was true that there was hunger in the land, children were out of school, but only women would remedy the situation, as she charged women to ensure they voted for Atiku. Margret Obi told the women to use their positions as mothers to ensure that Atiku was elected the president so that joy would return to many homes, pointing out that it was only PDP that would give hope to the people and chase poverty away from the land.