Ambassador Shuaibu Ahmed Adamu is Governorship candidate of the New Nigeria People Party in Bauchi state. In this interview with Suzan Edeh, he talks about the recent coalition by opposition political parties to unseat the incumbent governor, his plans for the state if elected amongst other issues. Excerpts: Recently there was a coalition of six opposition political parties in the state under the leadership of Speaker Yakubu Dogara to unseat Governor Abubakar, but your party the NNPP was not part of it, what is your reaction to this? I think it is a good idea to form a coalition that will defeat the incumbent governor. The first thing I would like to say is that my party is not against any coalition, but you have to look at the timing and the feasibility of that coalition, we have less than 27 days to the general election, how do you form coalition? We have already fielded candidates in every elective offices of the party, from the Senate, House of Representatives and House of Assembly. It is ridiculous to expect our 48 candidates that were produced through credible, free and fair election to dump their mandate and align with frustrated power mongrels who were mongrels who were schemes out of a sinking boat. Moreover, our objective is not to snatch power but to produce credible alternative in the best interest of the people of Bauchi state. We are convinced that this alternative cannot be achieved through this so-called coalition. So, we have to be realistic about it and know that power belongs to God. No matter what you do or trick you may employ, if God says it is not you, then it is not you. We believe in that and this has been our convincing belief that has driven the party right from the beginning. We know that we don’t have anybody, except God. So the fact that three or four Governorship candidates are contesting against the incumbent governor, does not mean we cannot defeat him. Were you contacted by any other political party to join the coalition to unseat the governor? Recently, a group of politicians approached us with a suggestion of forming a coalition that will provide a single opposition front in the state. As listening politicians, we agreed to listen to their proposition. We decided to honour the invitation for the first meeting since it came from people we hold in high esteem. Out of the twenty one people invited to attend the meeting, eleven were from one political party. It did not take us long to understand that the proposal was orchestrated to favour the PDP which has clearly seen defeat. A few other participants at the meeting had personal scores to settle in their vested interest. The proposal had little to do with the interest of the people of B’auchi state.I was invited along with my deputy, that is making just the two of us. The PRP party had only one person in attendance that is the Governorship candidate. The Green party of Nigeria GPN, had only two persons in attendance, that is the Governorship and his deputy. The rest were PDP and a few APC people who lost the election against the incumbent governor. So we saw the signs clearly and knew where they were heading to and that is why we declined in going for the second meeting when they called.