Bemigho Ofoeyeno is the Director General, Okowa 2019 Campaign Flow and National Secretary, Atiku Campaign Stream. In this interview with JOHN AMUDO, he spoke on why Governor Ifeanyi Okowa should be returned for second term. He also canvasses support for the Abubakar Atiku, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, among other issues. Excerpt: You are the Convener of Okowa 2019 Campaign Flow. What are the chances of Governor Okowa coming back for second term? What is your impression about the campaign so far? Marvelous, beautiful. I can recall the flag off of the campaign at Oghara as super as success. I can also say without fear or favour that the people of the state love Governor Okowa so much. You can see the crowd at Oghara and other places we have gone to. That gives the signal that Okowa’s second term bid is already a reality. Opposition people are saying that PDP usually rents crowd during rallies. How true is it? Far from it, we don’t rent crowd. I can tell you that Okowa is a man of the people and he is loved by all. All Deltans from the 25 local government areas love Governor Okowa, hence they want him back in office. You are so optimistic of Okowa coming back to office. How are you going to achieve this feat? We have coordinators in all the wards and units in the 25 local government areas. So, our strategies are perfect and I believe that we will succeed at the end. Above all, we have since embarked on door-to-door campaign for the governor’s second coming. We are everywhere, even at the market places, motor parks, various social joints in all the council areas as well as the riverine communities. Presently governor is from Delta North. Where do you think power should go to now? No doubt, the governorship position is in Delta North Senatorial District and it should be so because it is still their turn. All hands must be on deck to ensure that this dream becomes a reality. What motivated you to embark on this all-important campaign? I am pleased and overwhelmed by the chains of achievements of Governor Okowa. As former chairman, Nigerian Institute of Engineers, I was opportuned to meet the governor one-on-one and discussed the issue of flooding in the state with him. As a listening governor, he promised to rescue the situation which is becoming a reality. In fact, we are very happy with the governor for his effort in developing the state so far. Above all, we have mobilised supports for all PDP candidates who are contesting from the state Houses of Assembly to the National Assembly. How would you rate ex-Gov James Ibori in this crusade? Everybody knows that Chief Ibori, the former governor is the political godfather of the state and he is fully in support of Governor Okowas’ return to office. Apart from that, Chief Iboris’ pedigree is so voluminous that nobody can contest the fatherly role of the Oghara-born political sage. How would you stand the pressure from APC in Delta South and Central in this election period? Simple. The massive support we are getting from all the parts of the state is a testimony that APC is no threat to PDP in any part of the state. Above all, even the blind and the deaf know that Delta is a PDP state and there is no two ways about it. We are not faking this. It is a reality. What people don’t know is that APC is only a newspaper tiger and does not have structure in the state. Frankly, PDP is more solid than APC. The people know that fact. Chief Great Ogboru is a popular and big politician in the state. How do you think Okowa can turn the table against the APC governorship candidate? APC does not have structure in Delta State and they (APC) should be told in clear terms that PDP belongs to Delta, just as APC is yet to find its feet in the political system of the state. In fact, Ogboru should be day-dreaming if he thinks he can defeat Okowa. APC hopes to win the state through the influence of President Muhammadu Buhari and the party’s chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who boasted that his party would take over Delta and other PDP states during the election. How would you react to that? Voting is by number, not by force or threat from anybody. All I can say is that APC is wasting its time in Delta State.  The party should go to other states to contest and possibly win. Why do you think the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar should be voted in as president in this political dispensation? Alhaji Atiku Abubakar was the vice president of this country and presently the PDP presidential candidate. He has all it takes to rule this country very well and he knows the pains majority of Nigerians are facing. Besides, as somebody who has chains of businesses across the country, he knows how to manage the affairs of this country if voted in as president. He also knows the keys to open up business activities for everybody to benefit from. But, a cross section of Nigerians believes that Atiku Abubakar is corrupt. What is your take on that? For me, you cannot say Atiku is corrupt because he has not been found wanting in any aspect. He was not found guilty by any court or sentenced to prison for committing any offence. So, until a man is found guilty by any law court, such a fellow cannot be referred to as corrupt. I tell you that nobody has come out with any evidence of corruption against Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. How many companies does the presidential candidate have and how many Nigerians are working in such companies? Atiku has a chain of businesses across the country spanning several sectors of the economy. He has employed a lot of persons in these companies. Even, he has increased the minimum wage for his worker’s to N30,000 and above. He has succeeded in removing a lot of jobless persons from the streets. Above all, a lot of more job opportunities abound and I tell you that more persons will benefit from his job creation policy. If you are to make a comparison between Atiku and Buhari, who do you think would do more in alleviating the hardship presently being faced by Nigerians? In retrospect, former President Goodluck Jonathan in his time, did very well. But, when President Buhari came on board to contest, a lot of Nigerians pitied him and voted for him because he had contested several times and failed. That is why Nigerians are sad over his abysmal performance so far. However, I believe that when Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is voted in, Nigerians will be happy because he (Atiku) is coming to wipe away tears from the eyes of the suffering masses. There will be a positive change because Nigerians will continue working again. Funny enough the two contestants are from the Hausa-Fulani extraction. What strategies has Atiku put in place to wrestle power from President Buhari? Truly, they are both Hausa-Fulanis. But, Atiku’s business empire stands him out because he (Atiku) is a detribalised man he has employed workers across the ethnic groups in the country. Sadly, President Muhammadu Buhari is a fundamentalist Fulani. He offers appointments and other benefits to his kinsmen. But, Atiku’s businesses are run majorly by non-Fulani. I believe strongly that when he becomes the president, more Nigerians will benefit from his government. What advice would you offer to politicians and electorates during and after the coming elections? My advice is that Nigeria has come of age. So, we should conduct ourselves properly. There should be no thuggery, snatching of ballot boxes and all forms of criminality that would truncate the democratic system. Candidates should shun campaign of calumny. Rather, they should be peaceful at all times because after election, we will still be one and indivisible family. The politicians should know that this country belongs to all of us. We don’t want a violent situation. Besides, we should apply the tenet of election without bitterness and rancor.