ABUJA – Comrade Timi Frank, former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Thursday alleged that the Federal Government has ordered the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to raise N5 billion for the repentant militants in the Niger Delta to secure their support ahead of Saturday’s election. The accusation is coming on the heels of APC’s claim that the opposition is planning widespread mayhem to rubbish the election as well as spread cash to compromise election officials, security operatives and election observers. Lanre Issa Onilu claimed that the decision was reached at a strategy meeting of the PDP, citing intelligence sources. Frank, in a statement on Thursday said the APC-led Federal government in desperation has begun moves to induce repentant militants in the Niger Delta to endorse him. He also accused the President and the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai of deliberately using the Army in the Niger Delta region to harass and intimidate the voting population of the Niger Delta. Frank observed that “there is a deliberate plot to disenfranchise the people and cause dissatisfaction in the build-up to the presidential elections, noting that the region has been largely peaceful and thus there was no need for any show of force in the region. “The display of fighter jets and helicopters over selected Ijaw communities, a fortnight ago and the presence of military personnel suggest that the administration is purposely trying to impose fear, even when there are no visible threats or confrontation. “Suffice to say that the North-west region of Katsina and Zamfara which has witnessed more banditry over the last months should be the focus of heavy military presence and not the Niger Delta. “It is sad that the desperation of Buhari has taken a new dimension as he is bent on using any means possible of finding his way back into the villa without any consideration for the Nigerian people. This brazen show of desperation is the worst ever witnessed in Nigeria by a sitting President, and we begin to wonder if this is the same man who never really gave a damn about other regions as confessed by himself in his famous 97/5% unpresidential and nepotic speech made in the full glare of the world, even when he had earlier pledged to be nonpartisan in his ‘belong to everybody’ speech whilst attesting to the constitution.” The Bayelsa born activist reminded the president that the people of the Niger Delta will not forget in a hurry his open disdain and vindictive mien toward them as evident from his sectionalism styled governance, saying the Mr. President’s non-adherence to the rule of law can attest to this. “I have it in good authority that the APC backed by the FG, through the NNPC has been mandated to raise and disburse N5billion to be shared amongst the former Niger Delta militants all in a bid to get their endorsement and use them as frontlines to disenfranchise the people during the presidential polls with the Army acting as backup in the course of any eventualities. “These ex-militants are true sons of the soil and as such will not join in the betrayal of their people. If they have fought for her liberation, then most certainly they would see to her greater upliftment rather than maim in the name of supporting a political party. The likes of Tompolo, Farah, and Ateke will most definitely not be a party to any endorsement of Mr President, as we are convinced they know the true meaning of a handshake. The refusal from Tompolo, Farah, and Ateke is enough to send a signal that the time for blackmail is over. “The recent outburst by the APC Campaign DG, at the Port Harcourt  Mega rally, Mr Rotimi Amaechi attests to my assertions as he’s been saddled with the responsibility of working with various militants groups,  hence his boastful threats right in the presence of Mr President, without any remorse or recourse to the Peaceful Accord, speaks volumes as to what should be expected by Nigerians in Port Harcourt and the region come Saturday the 16th. “The APC makes no pretense about its resort to violence in the event of imminent defeat should they lose the elections. From body bags to praying for rain to bring more foods for strength to fight and war songs at campaign rallies, there’s no doubt that the APC and Mr President can be held directly responsible in the event of wanton destruction and loss of lives. “I want to call on the US, EU, and The UK, not to relent in their bid to ensure a smooth, free and fair elections, whilst deploying its sophistication in monitoring this election. The international community must commit APC and President Buhari to abide by the Peace Agreement as signed on 13/02/2019, otherwise, they should be held accountable in the event of chaos or outright loss of lives.” The PDP and its presidential candidate has consistently maintained that “his ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian” as known worldwide for its sincerity in keeping to its promise and evident in 2015. Onilu noted that the apparently orchestrated arson attacks on some facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC); syndicated fake news and planted false reports on the elections are part of the PDP’s strategies ahead of the Elections. Recall that PDP had recently accused the APC of being behind the attack on INEC facilities to force a shift of the election. “The main opposition party has perfected plans to share money to persons and actors considered critical to the success of the elections. “The PDP has also perfected plans to distribute between 5 and 10 million dollars to the States for ‘logistics and mobilisation’ on election day. “PDP’s targets in the well-oiled machinery are INEC officials, security agencies and observers. This is expected to make such persons agreeable to their rigging plots and other evil machinations. “The PDP is also using faceless bloggers to attack frontline security agencies in the social media as part of their plan to discredit the agencies. “We must all be on high alert and resist this real and imminent threat posed by the PDP’s uncovered plans during the elections.