P/Harcourt – The Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Professor Nelson Brambaifa, says the new dawn at the Commission is an opportunity to do things differently for the development of the Niger Delta region. Prof. Brambaifa spoke during a reception in honour of the NDDC Acting Executive Director Finance and Administration, EDFA, Mr Chris Amadi, at the Palace of the Chairman of Supreme Council of Ikwerre Traditional Rulers, Eze Blessing Wagor, Nye-Nwe Ali Isiokpo. The NDDC Chief Executive Officer described the Acting Executive Director Finance and Administration as a worthy, brilliant and smart son of the Niger Delta region. “You can be sure that he would perform creditably in his new assignment,” he assured. Responding, Amadi assured that the executive management led by Prof Bambaifa would deliver faithfully on the mandate of the NDDC, stating that it would endeavor to enlist the support and cooperation of all stakeholders in the Niger Delta region. The Acting EDFA stated that NDDC as a regional development agency had been undertaking development projects and programmes for the benefit of the people of the region. “I can assure Ikwerre people that we will do our best within the time available to ensure that everyone got their due”, he said Amadi said that the NDDC Acting Managing Director had asked him to raise the issue of vandalised power infrastructure in Isiokpo at the next executive management meeting. He assured that the light situation in Isiokpo and other Ikwerre communities would be treated with dispatch. He said further: “We are requesting Ikwerre people to identify areas that require intervention from the NDDC as soon as possible, so as to assist us to ensure equitable distribution of infrastructural development across the region. “The Acting Managing Director is from Bayelsa State, the Ag. Executive Director Projects is from Delta State and I am from Rivers State. What that means is that we will ensure that no state in the region is marginalised or short changed.” Amadi said that as the new management team came on board, it realised that there were school desks and chairs that were already delivered to the NDDC for distribution to primary and secondary schools across the region. Consequently, he said, the management directed the immediate distribution of the desks and chairs for schools in Rivers State. According to the EDFA, the first schools to benefit will be those in Akpor kingdom. “We will continue in that vein to cover other communities in Rivers State since the Commission had already distributed the items in other states in the region”, he said. Speaking on behalf of the Isiokpo kingdom, Eze Wagor, said the appointment of Amadi as NDDC EDFA was the first real “patronage” of an Isiokpo son since 1999. For this position of trust extended to our son, he declared: “We shall reciprocate and continually show appreciation and support to the Federal Government of Nigeria.” Eze Wagor appealed to the NDDC to step up infrastructural development in the Ikwerre Local Government Area. He particularly pleaded for the rehabilitation of the vandalised electricity supply to Isiopko from the national grid, noting that “the entire area has been without power supply for more than 18 months.” Isiokpo people had earlier organised a thanksgiving service at St. John’s Anglican Church, Adanta, Isiokpo  in honour of Amadi. Rev. Canon Benedict Eke regretted that the political climate in Nigeria was unsuitable for Christians, considering the destructive activities and crises being witnessed across the country. He remarked, however, that Christians should not be discouraged from participating in politics because God was the author of government.