Hon. Dennis Adikwuru is a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Imo State and Convener, Grassroots Employers for Ihedioha. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the postponement of the 2019 elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Excerpts: How do you feel over Saturday’s shift of the general elections? The shift of last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections has two implications. First, it exposed the APC’s inordinate desperation to thwart the will of the people, thereby debasing our democratic practice. It also clearly indicated that PDP is bouncing back to power, which is the anti-thesis of the first. Nigeria and Nigerians have come of age and the information technology has advanced positively to aid the sustenance of our democracy. It is unfortunate that the so-called cabals are pushing and forcing the unwilling horse too far to continually satisfy their self-centred interests. The shift is the last resort to avert an imminent war in Nigeria and keep both democracy and the sovereign state of Nigeria going. What do you think are the possible implications of the shifts? The implications are simple. The will of Nigerians to change the most inhuman and deceptive government of President Muhammadu Buhari cannot be subverted. Secondly, APC as a political party should brace up for the imminent loss of power and accept defeat in good fate. Thirdly, the entire world is beaming on Nigeria and cannot accept the hydra-headed APC inconclusively induced rigging anymore. Finally, but not exhaustive, Nigerians have been charged the more to perform their civic duties, exercise their franchise and elect Atiku Abubakar as their President. With what happened, would you say Nigerians’ fear over INEC capability of giving credible elections was justified? The bias and incompetence of INEC came to the fore with this development. The immediate-past INEC Chairman, Prof Attahiru Jega, ended with inconclusive elections as modern way of effecting rigging through deployment of military and security apparatus. Jega handed over to Prof Mahmood Yakubu, who has engaged this rule as his modus operandi. The saying is clear, that 20 days may be for the thief, but one day for the owner. Today, INEC under the watch of Prof Yakubu is a bundle of shame and irresponsibility. But, Nigerians are wise and ready to take on INEC however they want it. What is your take on the spate of violence and deaths recorded during this year’s political campaigns? The level of violence and killings during recent campaigns is the typical characteristic of the outgoing APC government. Remember they rained violence and nearly made governance impossible for President Goodluck Jonathan prior to their assumption of power. With power in their hands, they deployed violence and killings as tool of governance. On the tail end of their governance, they still patronise violence and killings as last resort to rig the PDP out. You cannot give what you don’t have. APC has violence and murdering of innocent Nigerians and that’s what they have given all this while. But, Nigerians say ‘no more to violence’. Would you say security agencies could guarantee free and fair elections? Ordinarily, it is the duty of security agencies to guarantee orderliness, violent-free and fairness during elections. Events during the Buhari era show otherwise. Worst is their inability to track down on fake security men being recruited here and there. The truth is that the security operatives are also human. They are part of the society which has rejected Buhari and APC. They are expected to see and act from the passenger seat. The ball is in their court. But, they cannot kill all of us at the same time.