Makurdi – About seventeen persons were feared killed in an attack on Agatu, Agatu Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State by suspected Fulani herdsmen in the early hours of Wednesday. Daily Independent gathered that the attack which took place about 1a.m was carried out in Ebete, Usha council ward of the LGA. The attack on the community is coming barely 72 hours to the presidential and National Assembly elections billed to hold across the country on Saturday. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue who confirmed the number of deaths, prayed it is not a repeat of the January 2018 experience. Meanwhile, the military spike operation in the state, ‘Operation Whirl Stroke’ also confirmed the attack. Major General Adeyemi Yekini, Commander, ‘Operation Whirl Stroke’, in a statement said troops have been sent to the area to verify the extent of damage. According to him, “I received a report this (Wednesday) afternoon that some people were killed in Agatu by suspected armed bandits. “I’m not sure of the number of casualties yet but I don’t think it’s up to sixteen. “We have sent a patrol team to the general area where the incident happened. The location where it happened, although it is in Benue, it can better be accessed through Loko in Nasarawa State. “We are already sending (had already sent) a patrol team there to verify what really happened.” However, Daily Independent gathered that among those that were slain were three hunters who are non-natives of Agatu. Accounts by locals in the area said two other hunters that were caught in the attack sustained bullet wounds and have been rushed to an undisclosed hospital where they are currently receiving treatment. Daddy Seni, whose father and siblings were slain during the attack while narrating the incident, said he left his father and headed to Aloko for fishing when he received a call from him, asking him to return, because he has been shot by Fulani herdsmen. He explained that on reaching home, he met his father in a pool of his blood, but when he made efforts to take him to the hospital, his father appealed to him not to waste time on him, but run for his life. Seni explained that he distinctively heard the killers speaking Fulani language while beating a retreat from the scene as they sighted security agents heading to the area. Acting Chairman, Agatu LGA, Alhaji Oyigocho, has called on government to come to the aid of his people. He lamented that the incident took place at a time Nigerians were preparing to elect new leaders on Saturday. Oyigocho noted that if the situation persists, it would lead to confusion and also disenfranchise people of the local council. He advised Agatu sons and daughters to remain calm and allow law enforcement agents to carry out their duties. Agatu and many other farming communities in Benue have witnessed repeated armed attacks in recent years in deadly episodes blamed on herdsmen. Meanwhile, the state government has condemned the killing, describing it as “unfortunate”. In a statement issued to newsmen in Makurdi on Wednesday, Terver Akase, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Governor Samuel Ortom, hoped that the killings would not be a repeat of the incident that took place in Guma and Logo council areas of the state in January, 2018. Speaking on behalf of the governor, Akase said, “I can confirm that the governor of Benue State met earlier today with the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bishi and he confirmed that there was an attack in Ebete in Agatu earlier today in which seventeen persons were killed by suspected armed herdsmen. “We feel that this is unfortunate, because the governor had raised an alarm that some persons for political reasons are planning to unleash armed herdsmen on innocent Benue people, to create fear in the people for political gains. “This is quite unfortunate and is condemnable. The government of Benue State condemns this and urges security agencies to immediately move in to forestall further attacks on innocent people of Benue State. “This is because we can’t afford to have another rounds of killings that we had in 2018”, he stressed.