The Super Eagles, who missed out of the last two editions of the Africa Cup of Nations, qualified for the 2019 edition with a game to spare. Despite failing to qualify for the last two editions, there is a general belief that Super Eagles can win the tournament. Alloy Agu, the team’s goalkeeper trainer, also shares in this optimism, hinging his hope on the synergy between all stakeholders and the efforts of the Coach Gernot Rohr to fine-tune the team before the tournament kicks off in Egypt. Agu, in this interview with CHIBUIKE CHUKWU, spoke on the goalkeeping department of the team, support from NFF, Francis Uzoho’s move to Cyprus, as well as Lobi Stars and the Nigeria Professional Football League, among others; Excerpts. How prepared are the Super Eagles for the African Cup of Nations in June? We are still perfecting the team for the tournament.  Remember that we still have the last qualifiers against Seychelles and then other friendly matches lined up for the team. We are not giving up on giving the team adequate preparation because we hope to do well and it is also the hope of other Nigerians that the Super Eagles represent Nigeria well in Egypt. By the time we travel to Egypt for the competition, I can assure you that Super Eagles will be ready to face the rest of the continent. After missing the last two editions of the Cup of Nations, some Nigerians believe that anything short of the trophy may not be good. Do you share in this sentiment? See, I know we love football so much here and I also know that Nigerians are very passionate about the Super Eagles. By God’s grace, we are going to give our all to make sure that Nigeria do very well in the Cup of Nations. Our desire is to win the trophy and that is also the desire of all Nigerians. But remember that it will be very much competitive because other countries going to Egypt also desire to win the trophy. This is where Nigerians must pray for the team that the players avoid injuries and all the issues that can affect them. On our part, we are going to prepare the team very well and make sure they lack no motivation to represent Nigeria very well. I so much believe in the ability of the Super Eagles to win the cup despite all oppositions. We are working round the clock to ensure that Nigerians see a team they will be proud of. As the team’s goalkeeper trainer, how satisfied are you with the team’s goalkeeping department heading to the Africa Cup of Nations? I have said this time without number that we have no problem with the goalkeepers we presently have in the team. The goalkeepers are doing very well in their various clubs and that is very important. We have continued to keep in touch with them and the rest of the players and I can tell you with certainty that they are very much ready for the Cup of Nations. They know what is at stake and the rest of the players know what is at stake. From the goalkeepers to the defenders, midfielders and the attackers, everybody knows what is at stake and ready. We trust God and also working hard to make sure that we do well and meet the expectations of Nigerians. It is not as if it is going to be easy but with God, the support from the Nigeria Football Federation and then the players themselves, I hope we are going to make a statement in Egypt. Nigerians must continue to offer their prayers to the team at this time. Like I said earlier, the three goalkeepers are all professionals and know what is expected of them. They are doing well. Nigerians will see the stuff they are made of when the tournament starts. Talking about the NFF, how supportive are they towards Super Eagles outing in Egypt? The NFF has always been there for the Super Eagles. We are also doing our best for the team to make sure that they do well. NFF is the custodian of football in Nigeria and what most people don’t know is that the success of NFF is the success of Nigerian football and that is why we should also support them to succeed. This is because when they are successful, it will rub off on all the national teams. They are as passionate as any other Nigerian in the success of the Super Eagles and they have never relented in doing the needful. I can tell you that it has always been a kind of partnership between the NFF and the national team and that is why it has been easy to prosecute virtually all the matches in recent time. They have been there for the team. Super Eagles first choice goalie, Frances Uzoho, recently transferred to a Cypriot side, Anorthosis Famagusta, on a six-month loan from Deportivo La Coruna… (Cuts in) yes it is very important for his career because nothing worries a sportsman like sitting out a game when he should be playing. It is a minus to a player’s career. I am very happy for him because it will lift him and impact on the Super Eagles. Uzoho is a good goalkeeper just like the other players in the national team. Also, as a national team goalkeeper, he must be playing regularly if he must maintain the standard required at that level. It is a good move for him. Coach Gernot Rohr recently hinted on the possibility of giving the U20 players campaigning for honours at the ongoing CAF U20 Cup of Nations chances to vie for shirts if they do well. What is your take on this? That is what the national team is all about. All around the world, age group teams like the U20 and U23 are there to feed the senior national team. For the Super Eagles, it has always been like that because almost all the big national team stars of old we are still celebrating today started with the youth teams. If they (U20 team) play well and show the coach why they should be given a chance, why not? They must play to convince that they will bring additional value into the national team. They must play to show themselves worthy to compete with the players we currently have in the team. We are also keeping eyes on the goalkeepers’ right there to see how they are performing. National team is open to everybody and whoever plays to the satisfaction of the coach will surely be invited. Mikel Obi transferred to Middleborough in January. How do you think the move will impact on his career and the national team? I am very happy for him because Mikel has been a strong player in the national team. This move is very significant in a number of ways. First, it will ease his travelling, especially to Nigeria whenever his service is needed. It will also boost his game. Returning to England is a good decision and we can’t wait to welcome him back to the national team. He is one captain we are very much proud of and everybody is happy for him for coming out of the injury and signing for the club. Coach, Lobi Stars lost 1-0 to Wydad Casablanca in their CAF Champions League penultimate weekend. Given the tricky nature of their group having three former winners of the cup, how do you view their chances of Lobi going forward? I think it may be a bit difficult for them now but remember that in a football, you will expect three results. It is either you win, draw or lose. In this case, Lobi lost but it is certainly not over for them. They just have to watch the tape of the match and look at what they failed to do right; they have to look at what can now be done to salvage the situation. Who says that they cannot go away to win matches? They must believe in themselves because results of football matches are not pre-written; football match results are not guaranteed before the match is played. As it is now, Lobi must prepare mentally, physically and psychologically to go out there and take everything thrown at them, and then go ahead and get the desired result. I played the game and I can tell you that nothing will stop a determined mind; nothing will stop a well-prepared and psychologically prepared team from getting a desired result. Everybody in that team, including the management, the state government and even philanthropists must rally round them to go out there and do what many people will term impossible at this time. Are you satisfied with the current season of the Nigeria Professional Football league with just few matches played already? The season is young and we can only hope that it gets better. For now, what can we do than to support the managers of the league to get it even better.  I played in the league and as a former player, I can always pray that the league gets better. The players are limited by a lot of factors but in the midst of that, they are still giving their best. I won’t like to compare our time with now. No two eras are the same. In our time, the league was fun and players were paying less emphasis on money. They showed dedication and determination to succeed. Players then were always forming the bulk of the national team.