Tony Ezimakor, Innocent Oweh and Samuel Ogidan Abuja – Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, on Tuesday, said recent threats issued by President Muhammadu Buhari that ballot box snatchers would pay with their lives was directed at the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said Buhari issued the warning to sound a strong message against the long history of savagery associated with elections in the country, where the opposition compromised the electoral process. President Buhari had, on Monday, at the All Progressives Congress (APC) emergency national caucus meeting in Abuja warned political thugs that they would lose their lives if they attempted to snatch ballot boxes during elections. “I am going to warn anybody who thinks he has enough influence in his locality to lead a body of thugs to snatch boxes or to disturb the voting system; he would do it at the expense of his own life,” President Buhari had warned. Shehu, in a statement to State House correspondents, said the presidency came up with the warning because of experiences in past elections in parts of Nigeria, where innocent voters lost their lives while ballot boxes were being snatched by armed thugs. “Snatching ballot boxes often entails putting the lives of innocent Nigerians at risk. About 10 years ago, evidence was brought before an election tribunal from one of the states in North Central of the gruesome killing of 26 prospective voters by ballot box snatchers. Their modus operandi is well known. They storm election venues in commando style, overwhelm the law-enforcement agents and seize ballot boxes leaving a trail of death and injury,” Shehu said. According to him, “Anyone who dares to put the lives of innocent citizens at risk in their desperation to rig elections, must be prepared for the possibility of losing their own lives because our security agents will certainly not stand by, clap for them and watch them kill and maim. “He added that President Buhari had the safety and security of Nigerians uppermost in mind when he made the comment, and should be praised rather than criticised for issuing this stern warning to potential ballot box snatchers.” Shehu further expressed concern about those attacking the president’s comment, and their worry over the fate of anyone caught snatching ballot boxes. “This sounds like members of the opposition, specifically the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who have perfected plans to rig the elections and to snatch ballot boxes. They can tell that President Buhari is not prepared to tolerate their antics this time around, and they are afraid. They have shown their intent,” he said. The presidential spokesperson noted that no one had anything to fear from the president’s comments if their conscience and intentions are clear. “Let’s just have free and fair elections and no one need worry about anything,” he said. Death For Ballot Box Snatchers: We’ll Execute Buhari’s Order – IGP Despite protests against President Muhammadu Buhari’s order to security agencies to shoot at ballot box snatchers, Mohammed Adamu, the Inspector-General of Police, has announced the desire of the police to execute the order to the letter. IGP Adamu, therefore, warned that anyone involved in the act would have themselves to blame. The IGP, who spoke with State House correspondents after a security meeting presided over by President Buhari at the State House, Abuja, on Tuesday, said the police were ready to protect Nigerians following the resolution at the security meeting that adequate protection be provided for all in the country. Adamu said: “Today, members of the security community and intelligence community came and briefed Mr. President on the security situation in the country. “We deliberated on the consequences and came up with the resolve to further provide adequate security within the country so that the electorate will come out and cast their votes without any fear of molestation. “Every Nigerian is encouraged to come out on the election day and cast his or her vote without any fear of molestation. “The security personnel are ready and prepared to protect everybody. “Anybody that feels that he can come out and disrupt the process should have a rethink because that situation will not be allowed. “If you plan and allow yourself to be used as touts, whatever happens to you, you will take it. “Ballot snatching, ballot buying, and thuggery will never be allowed; anybody that is planning to snatch ballot boxes or planning to be used as a tout, will have his or herself to blame on the election day. So, you’d better don’t allow yourself to be used.” Atiku Cautions Military Against Obeying Unlawful Order Meanwhile, Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Tuesday cautioned the military against obeying unlawful order. This advice is coming against the backdrop of President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to security agencies that ballot box snatchers should pay with their lives. President Buhari had said: “Anybody who decides to snatch boxes or lead thugs to disturb the election, may be that would be the last unlawful action you would take. I have given the military and police the order to be ruthless. I am going to warn anybody who thinks he would lead a body of thugs in his locality to snatch boxes or to disturb the voting system; he would do it at the expense of his/her own life.” Speaking at the 84th National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, the presidential candidate of PDP and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar said, “We want to direct this message to military commanders and officers. You know that as military officers you are not bound to obey orders that are manifestly unlawful, that is the law. “If you are a professional you are not bound to obey an order that is manifestly unlawful. I have been trained by the military and police so I know that.” Speaking on how far the All Progressives Congress (APC) has gone to manipulate the election, Atiku said, “We have just discovered that the APC has hired many of their operatives and have taken them to China to be trained, and they have been so trained, and they are back, and they are equipped with devices that are meant to slow or fasten our card readers. “So, if you are in the South-South, South-East and North-Central, you are likely to get your card readers to be slowed by those APC operatives. “We have seen the machines; we have interviewed some of those who have gone on this training, and we have passed that information to the campaign council to pass to you. “But if you are from the North-West or North-East, the tendency is that they will use these machines to fast-track the readings of your card readers, so that many of their supporters can vote while disenfranchising the other three zones. “I thought you should know that we have supplied the information to the campaign council, and you will even see the copy of the machine which each and every one of those operatives is to hold. It is like a telephone but that is its job. I felt I should let you know, and you should be guided accordingly.” Atiku, who said that President Buhari was never a democrat, added that the president was a painful reminder of the era of dictatorship and military rule. “When you people are talking about democracy, I have always said that Gen. Muhammadu Buhari is not a democrat, he has never been a democrat. We started the fight to drive the military, he was never there, he never participated. You can see that he just wore the garb of democracy so that he can come back to power and do whatever he is doing. So Gen. Buhari is not a democrat, he doesn’t believe in democracy, he is a lip service, he is more of a power monger than a democrat. “My dear Nigerians, party men and women, I am sure that you have followed with interest utterances from the leadership of the All Progressives Congress and Gen. Muhammadu Buhari in particular, which is a painful reminder of the era of dictatorship and military rule. Gen. Buhari has consistently violated the constitution, he failed to uphold the rule of law.” Also speaking, the President of the Senate and the Director General of Atiku Campaign Organisation, Bukola Saraki, noted that the APC wants to further postpone the election. He said, “All that Nollywood at APC yesterday was because they are looking for another postponement. They don’t want election to hold, we know they don’t want election to hold on Saturday. By God’s grace the man that will take us to promised land, Atiku Abubakar, will win. “INEC don’t want you to hold that election on Saturday, so you must deliver for the sake of millions of Nigerians. You must make sure election happen on Saturday. By God’s grace election will hold and we will win, because we represent the interest of Nigerians.” Saraki advised President Buhari not to allow his personal ambition to destroy the country, adding, “My message to them is that you won in 2015 because democracy was working in Nigeria. This democracy that worked for you, is to work for generation yet on born. Do not ruin Nigeria’s democracy because of your ambition, democracy is bigger than you and as such, it worked for you and it will also work for others.” Insisting that the three and half years of President Buhari has been full of insecurity, poverty, unemployment, among others, Saraki said, “Nigeria is a country that is practising democracy, Nigeria is a country that is governed by the rule of law. What Mr. President said yesterday suggested that this country is governed by jungle justice. We in PDP are not for election rigging, we are against election rigging.” The National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, said that PDP needs prayers, adding that the party does not have three thousand dollars to share per state. He said that PDP’s victory can be delayed but cannot be denied, adding, “In reality some anti-democratic forces cropped up to delay our victory dance but surely it would come because Nigerians have resolved and are determined to throw away the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “The challenge that we now face is one of expectation. Those entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring that the expression of the people’s will is made manifest, have time and again failed to demonstrate good faith. We expect better than we are getting.” INEC Disagrees With Buhari Over Killing Of Ballot Box Snatchers The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has distanced itself from President Muhammadu Buhari’s order to security agents to shoot ballot box snatchers, stressing that electoral offenders should be treated in accordance with the provisions of the Electoral Act. Fielding reporters’ questions at Tuesday’s briefing in Abuja, Prof Mahmood Yakubu aligned himself with the provisions of the Electoral Act. “The position of the commission is that all violators of the Electoral Act should be punished according to the provisions of the Electoral Act.” The Electoral Act stipulates that anybody who snatches or destroys election material is liable on conviction to 24 months imprisonment.