Damaturu – Five members of Boko Haram met their waterloo on Saturday when they attempted to ransack a military base at Buni Yadi, Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe State, about 6:05p.m. Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. The Nigerian Army Special Forces School and 27 Task Force Brigade are both located in Buni Yadi. According to him, “Though the terrorists appeared prepared for the attack as they approached the military location with 4 gun trucks, 1 Mine Resistant Ambush Protection, 1 MOWAC and assorted arms and ammunition, they, however, suffered heavy losses as five of the bandits/terrorists were effectively deleted, 9 x AK47 rifles, 1x anti-aircraft gun, 121 rounds of 12.7 mm anti-aircraft ammunitions, 2x 36 hand grenades, 295 rounds of 7.62 mm special ammunition, 4x Improvised Explosive (IED) Device, 1x IED cylinder, 1x RPG bomb, 1x RPG bomb charger, 1x gun truck and 1x Bajaj Motorcycle were recovered.” He added: “Unfortunately, an officer and three soldiers lost their lives during the encounter. Five soldiers who were wounded are stable and receiving treatment in the Brigade Field Ambulance.” According to him, the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, has already commended, in general terms, the successes being recorded by troops in recent times in the various operational arenas, especially in the North East, and enjoined all personnel to remain resolute, alert, and decisive as well as professional in the discharge of the onerous national assignment. He said the Nigerian Army expressed appreciation to all those who passed timely credible information that aided the successful abortion of the attempted attack on troops’ position in Buni Yadi. Similarly, Musa said troops deployed to provide security for the rescheduled Presidential/National Assembly elections at Iwaraja Junction, along Osun and Ogun axis, on Saturday intercepted three hoodlums. He said they were intercepted on motorcycle moving towards Ilesa East Local Government Area with intent to disrupt the smooth conduct of the rescheduled elections in the area. The army spokesman said the hoodlums would be handed over to the police upon completion of “initial profiling and investigation.” He said one locally made pistol, one cutlass, three rounds of cartridges, three mobile phones, one iPad, one Peace Corps face cap, one Peace Corps ID card, and N14,300 were recovered from the suspects.