Abuja – Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has said he underestimated the death toll in the attacks that occurred at Kujuru Local Government Area of the state last week, saying over 130 people were hacked to death. He said the 66 victims earlier reported in the media should be disregarded. According to him, the latest figure is contained in a report provided through an on-going investigation by the Nigeria police. The Kaduna State governor had last Friday raised the alarm that unknown gunmen had killed 66 persons in the area. While briefing State House correspondents after an emergency security meeting summoned by President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, he said: “Now, what we are hearing, the last report we got is that over 130 people were killed not even 66.” El-Rufai, who was joined by the governor of Adamawa State, Mohammed Bindo; the governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima, and the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina, said Fulani leaders have already indicated interest to provide the full list of those killed in the attack to the government. The governor said he was ready to make public the pictures of the victims and footages of how the army had to be there to help bury the dead two days after they were killed because their bodies were decomposing. He said it was unfortunate that some disgruntled elements were trying to dispute his position as chief security officer of the state over the killings. “Now, what we are hearing, the last report we got is that, over 130 people were killed not even 66. And the Fulani leaders are providing the names of all these people, we have the list and we will release it to the press. “And I don’t want to be groused but we can release pictures of the people killed and how the army had to be there to help bury them two days after they were killed because their bodies were decomposing. But some people were being irresponsible, they are pretending this has not happened because it does not fit their ethnic or partisan narrative. It is totally irresponsible because this can happen to anyone of us,” he said. The Kaduna State governor explained that “part of the reason why he went out appealing for calm was because he knew that those that lost their relations could take laws into their own hands for revenge unless they believe to have seen that the government was doing something to secure justice. He also told reporters that during the meeting with President Buhari, he requested for enhanced military presence during the forthcoming election on February 23 and March 9 in the state. “In Kaduna State, we requested for enhanced military presence in particular locations that are either affected by rural banditry, these are the local government of Birnin-Gwari/Giwa Angchukwu and areas where there had been a history of either electoral violence or ethno-religious intolerance. “We have already mapped out local arrangements with the garrison commander and the commissioner of police and we have made adequate arrangements to ensure that every citizen of Kaduna State will be free to vote in an atmosphere of peace and security. “We got assurances from Mr. President that whatever security assets we need in addition to what is already on ground to ensure peaceful hitch-free elections on Saturday, those assets will be provided. All we need to do is ask,” he added. The governor also explained that the meeting between President Buhari and the heads of security agencies focused on the states that have higher than average security challenges than others. He said four state governors were invited, Yobe, Borno, Adamawa, and Kaduna. According to him, the North East states were discussed for obvious reasons because of the history of Boko Haram insurgency, while in Kaduna State because of the recent crisis affecting parts of the state. He said, “The governor of Borno State submitted a comprehensive brief on the situation in Borno and Yobe states for which he is very familiar having been on the seat for eight years. The governor of Adamawa State presented a situation report regarding Adamawa and I submitted a briefing based on what has been happening in Kaduna State in the last few weeks and months. “We noted the significant improvement in the security situation across our states in spite of the challenges and thanked the Federal Government for making available the security assets to the states any time we needed them which has led to some level of stability of the situation. “Across the states, we are ready for elections, we do not believe that the level of challenges will preclude elections not taking place all over our states. Of course, in the case of Borno State other than one or two local government areas that may vote outside of their immediate domain, every voter in Borno State will vote in his or her local government area, compared to the situation in 2015 that some voters in Borno State had to vote in Maiduguri. This is not the case this time. “In Adamawa State, apart from Madagali that is close to Sambisa, there had been no major challenges. Even there, with enhanced security presence, we are confident that there will be no problems at all conducting elections,” El-Rufai said.