Tony Ezimakor and Innocent Oweh Abuja – Still smarting from the embarrassment caused by the sudden postponement of elections on Saturday by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), President Muhammadu Buhari hinted on Monday that the head of the electoral body, Mahmood Yakubu, would be investigated. Prof. Yakubu had cited logistics challenges as reason for shifting the polls by a week, but President Buhari said he still had some explanations to do. According to the president, he found it difficult to understand why the polls were postponed six hours to the exercise, especially when he had made all resources available to the electoral umpire. This was part of the outcome of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus meeting at the party secretariat in Abuja. According to the president, words could hardly explain what he went through when he learnt of the postponement. “I was told about the decision of INEC at quarter to 5a.m in the morning regarding the elections. “INEC had all the time and resources. It didn’t have to wait six hours to the elections to announce the postponement. “Definitely, INEC must explain to Nigerians what happened, the constitution and the law protect INEC but they must not take us for granted. “If we had failed to provide all what INEC wanted, then we would have been held responsible. “So at least after the elections we will have to go into details to find out what happened,” he said. The president said he was quite confident of victory, having garnered enough supporters and having gone round the country to campaign. He said Nigerians were free to vote for the parties or candidates of their choice. He urged party members not to be deterred, saying they should reassure their constituents to come out en-mass and vote on the rescheduled dates. Buhari also urged party agents not to stand aloof but to watch out for the party’s interest at the polling units. However, at the meeting which started about 11:30a.m, governors of Imo, Rochas Okorocha, and Ogun, Ibikunle Amosun, were conspicuously absent. Prior to the commencement of the meeting, a minute silence was observed in honour of people who died during the campaign programmes of the party. In his opening remarks, Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the party, described the meeting as “all important.” He lauded the president for taking the pains to go round the country to talk to Nigerians. The ruling party chairman said, in the course of going round the country, “we saw a lot of very fanatical supporters, some of them even looking underfed, but because of their faith in Buhari, that only he can deliver dividends of democracy, they came out. Oshiomhole said the ruling party was determined not to disappoint supporters and Nigerians. According to him, the party did what was expected of it by ensuring a successful election, including providing all logistics to all those involved in elections exercise, including party agents. He said all early warning indicators showed that INEC had something up its sleeves. He alleged that INEC was working with anti-democratic elements to frustrate free and fair elections. According to Oshiomhole, INEC had no right to stop campaigns, insisting that voters needed to be reminded, as this might result in low voter turnout. He hinted that they were ready to go to court. Oshiomhole also said the ruling party was going to write INEC to explain if the 180,000 card readers had been reconfigured and what was the guarantee that it won’t fail. He wondered why INEC would order just 180,000 card readers for all 176,000 wards in the country, saying that what was expected was 176,000 card readers and 170,000 spares. He said the ruling party did not want staggered elections but elections conducted simultaneously across all pulling units. In attendance at the meeting were Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; National Leader, Bola Tinubu, and Director General of Buhari Campaign Organisation, Rotimi Amaechi. Governors in attendance included those of Zamfara, Edo, Ekiti, Borno, Bauchi, Ondo, Oyo, Osun, Niger, and Nasarawa. Others were Plateau, Kaduna, Kogi, Kano, Lagos, Jigawa, and Kebbi. Some National Assembly members in attendance included Senate Majority Leader, Ahmed Lawan, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Godswill Akpabio. Also in attendance were governorship candidates of Akwa Ibom, Ebonyi, Adamawa, Rivers states. Cabinet members present were those in charge of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola; Education, Adamu Adamu, and Agriculture, Audu Ogbeh. INEC Empowered To Postpone Elections— Tinubu Meanwhile, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), has absolved the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of blames in the postponement of last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections, saying it was constitutionally empowered to do so whenever it was necessary. He said irrespective of the grievances against INEC for shifting the polls, no political party had the right to overrule the electoral umpire. Tinubu, who spoke on the sidelines of the APC caucus meeting on Monday, at the party’s secretariat, however, faulted INEC for sustaining the ban on campaigns, arguing that the one week window should provide an opportunity to energise the electorate. “By law, we should continue to energise our people; it depends on our resources, because the Electoral Act allows us to do that, and asking us to stop campaigning only 24 hours before the actual election. “And once you change the date to February 23, you have given us the opening to campaign and energise. “If you have a garden and you don’t nourish it with water, the grass will remain dormant; we don’t want our party to remain dormant. “This is an opportunity for our leadership to convert adversity into gains and prosperity, and that’s it; that’s what we must do,” he stated. On the postponement, he said: “It depends on how it is handled and the process. How the process is managed; you can convert crisis in a situation of adversity to an opportunity and progress. “INEC, under the law, is empowered to postpone, cancel, and do whatever is necessary to ensure free and fair election. “No party, irrespective of the anger, the disappointment, no party can reverse that. So, we are ready for February 23.”