SAMUEL OGIDAN, PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU ABUJA, ENUGU – Jubilation as Atiku’s campaign train storms Enugu, Atiku re-iterates commitment to transform Nigeria There was wild jubilation in the ancient city of Enugu on Friday following the visit of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar and his running mate Peter Obi. The PDP presidential candidate who arrived Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium Enugu at 6.15 pm in an open van was accompanied by Senate President, Busola Saraki, Ike Ekweremandu, Deputy Senate President and South East Governors led by their Chairman David Umahi. Other dignitaries present at the PDP campaign rally include former Governor of Anambra State who defected to PDP recently, Ifeanyi Jim Nwobodo, PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus among others. Addressing the large crowd, Atiku Abubakar re-iterated his commitment not to fail Nigerians but transform the country if voted into power in 2019. He said, “We are going to execute developmental projects that will impact positively in the lives of the people if we are given the mandate in 2019. We will also focus on youth employment to secure the future of our youth. “Ndigbo should realise that they are 2\3 in this contest because they have the vice president as a candidate and the wife of the presidential candidate hence the need to vote massively to ensure PDP victory because you may not have such opportunity again. It will take a long time for South East to have this kind of opportunity so this is a life-time opportunity. “I want to seize this opportunity to appeal to you to vote for PDP as PDP has never failed you so you must continue supporting PDP because you are hitting towards the presidency because after the President, it will be the turn of the Vice President. “PDP has never disappoint Nigeria and I want to assure, we will not disappoint Nigerians if voted into power and we will not fail Enugu people because PDP is Enugu and Enugu is PDP.” In his remarks, Governor Ugwuanyi of Enugu State assured that PDP will have 100% victory in Enugu in 2019. “From 1999 till date, PDP has never lost in Enugu because Enugu is for PDP and come 2019, Enugu will win landslide in Enugu,” he said. Meanwhile, Prince Uche Secondus, the National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to disqualify President Muhammadu Buhari for bringing mercenaries to influence elections in the country. Recall it was reported that people came from Republic of Niger, including two governors from the country to join All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign rally in Kano on Thursday.