Lagos – The Confederation of African Football (CAF) has officially approved the use of the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) set to take place in Egypt from June 19 to July 21. The decision, DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered was taken in Niamey, Niger Repubic at the weekend. This will be the first time in the history of the AFCON that VAR will be used. The VAR became famous during the 2018 FIFA World in Russia. VAR was also used during the finals of the 2018 Total CAF Champions League between Egyptian giants, Al Ahly and Esperance of Tunisia. It was also applied at the 2018 Total CAF Confederation Cup. Since its introduction at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia, football pundits have listed the advantages and disadvantages of VAR with divisions among them on whether to retain or drop it. Meanwhile, Ahmad Ahmad, President of CAF, has commended the people and government of Niger Republic on the successful hosting of the just concluded Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). Ahmad also expressed appreciation to the input of the President of the Nigerian Football Federation (FENIFOOT), Colonel-Major Djibrilla Hima Hamidou. “Unlike senior tournaments this is a developmental competition where you have to build youth football. “It is in this sense that the U-17 and U-20 Africa Cup of Nations exist – to allow the young players to express themselves and flourish. “These are events that grab world’s attention especially scouts, who have been evergreen at this tournament. It is a competition that is also important for the host country because it allows them to develop their sporting infrastructure. “Today, in addition to the stadium of Niamey, Niger can now host international competitions in the city of Maradi, where the stadium meets international standards. “Previously, it was only Niamey which had the capacity to host such matches. I take this opportunity to thank the President of the Republic of Niger, His Excellency Mahamadou Issoufou, for providing the means to meet the challenges of this Total U-20 AFCON, Niger 2019”, he said. He however promised that CAF will do its best to support the four teams that would represent the continent at this year’s FIFA U20 World Cup in Poland. “I reiterate my applause to the CAF Technical Study Group (TSG) and the result of their work will not gather dust on the shelves. “In this regard, we will ask the CAF Development Department to meet with the TSG’s and the four teams qualified to the FIFA U20 World Cup Poland 2019 (Mali, Nigeria, Senegal and South Africa) to see how they can improve the technical and tactical aspects of their ahead of the global championship”, Ahmad said.