LAGOS – Last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections in parts of the country have come and gone. As the results of the elections are being announced, with victories and losses, it is time to look at some of the upsets recorded in the elections, particularly the National Assembly seats.. Saraki One of the major upsets of the legislative election is the loss of Busola Saraki, the Senate President and Head of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign. Saraki, an old timer in the Senate, lost to Dr. Ibrahim Oloriegbe, his All Progressives Congress (APC) opponent in the Kwara Centra District. Oloriegbe reportedly polled a total of 123,808 votes to defeat Saraki, who scored 68,994 votes in the four local governments of Kwara Central Senatorial District. The result of the election was announced by the Senatorial District Returning Officer, Prof. Olatunbosun Owoyomi from the University of Ilorin. In Asa local government, Oloriegbe of APC polled a total of 15,932 votes to defeat Saraki, who scored 11,252 votes. The APC candidate also got 30,014 votes in Ilorin East local government to 14,654 polled by his PDP rival in the Senatorial race. In Ilorin West, stronghold of Saraki, Oloriegbe polled 51,531 votes to defeat the senate president with 30,075 votes. The situation was the same in Ilorin South where the APC senatorial candidate floored the Senate President with 26,331 votes, as against 13, 031 votes garnered by Saraki. Ajimobi In Oyo State, former Governor Abiola Ajimobi of APC lost to Kola Balogun of PDP in the Oyo South Senatorial District. Balogun had a vote difference of 13,502 to defeated Ajimobi. Balogun had a total vote of 105,720 as against Ajimobi’s 92,217 votes. According to the declaration by Wole Akinsola, the Returning Officer, Ajimobi lost in all four of the first declared LGA results. He won in three of the local governments in the senatorial district, while Balogun won the remaining six. Ajimobi, who had a running battle with the Oba Saliu Adetunji, the Olubadan of Ibadan over Obaship issues before the end of his tenure, won in Ibadan Southwest, Ibarapa Central and Ido, while Balogun won in Ibadan North, Ibadan Northwest, Ibadan Northeast and Ibadan Southeast, Ibarapa North, Ibarapa East. Soji Akanbi, the incumbent senator representing the district, who contested on the platform of ADC, finished third behind Balogun and Ajimobi. Olujimi Biodun Olujimi, who replaced Akpabio as the Senate Minority Leader, also lost her bid to return to the Senate. Olojimi of PDP was defeated by former fellow party man, Dayo Adeyeye of APC for the Ekiti South senatorial district seat. Adeyeye, it would be recalled, defected to the APC shortly before the 2018 governorship election after the controversial PDP governorship primaries. Laide Lawal, the Returning Officer for Ekiti South Senatorial District, said that Adeyeye polled 77, 621 to defeat Olujimi, his closest rival, who scored 53, 741. In the same vein, incumbent senator, Fasina Abayomi of PDP was  defeated by an APC chieftain, Olubunmi Adetunbi. Adetumbi, a former senator, scored 60, 689 to defeat Faseyi of the PDP who polled 49, 209. Umeh Another major upset so far was the defeat of Senator Victor Umeh of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Although the party won four out of the 11 House of Representatives seats in Anambra State from results so far announced by INEC, UMeh, an incumbent Senator lost. APGA, the ruling party in Anambra State, lost the three Senatorial Districts elections, including Umeh’s Anambra Central seat. Umeh lost to his arch rival, Sen. Uche Ekwunife of PDP.  Sen. Stella Oduah won Anambra North and Chief Ifeanyi Ubah of the newly registered Young Progressive Party (YPP) won Anambra South. Political analysts see the outcome of the elections in Anambra State as a departure from the November 2017 governorship election which Gov. Willie Obiano won. Speaking on the development, Anayo Okoli, a political analyst,  said: “APGA won in all the 21 Local Government Areas of Anambra during the November 2017 election. What played out in Saturday’s election shows that APGA needs to sit up if it must remain politically relevant.” Okorocha Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State was declared winner of the Imo West senatorial election. Francis Ibeawuchi, the INEC Returning Officer, who announced the results at the collation centre in Orlu Local Government Area, declared Okorocha the senator-elect of the district. Okorocha, who contested under the APC platform, polled a total of 97,762 votes to defeat his two major contenders. Jones Onyereri of PDP, his major opponent, scored 63,117 to come second, while Senator Osita Izunaso of APGA scored 30,923 to come third. Okorocha is a two-term serving governor of the State under APC. Kalu Floors Ohuabunwa Another upset was the defeat of serving Senator Mazi Mao Obuabunwa by Orji Uzor Kalu, former governor of Abia State. Kalu, an APC candidate was declared winner of the Abia Nort senatorial seat. Kalu won with 30,580 votes, while Ohuabunwa of PDP scored 21,940 votes. According to the declared results of the five local governments in their respective headquarters, Isuikwuato recorded 8,317 votes for APC, while the PDP got 4,609 votes. In Ohafia, APC recorded 5,521 votes, while PDP had 4,861 votes. Akpabio Still On The Balance The fate of Senator Godswill Akpabio, the immediate past Senate Minority Leader, and former governor of Akwa Ibom State is still hanging on the balance.  Earlier result for the Akwa Ibom North-West District showed that Akpabio, who defected to the APC and lost his Minority Leader position, was defeated by former Deputy Governor, Christopher Ekpenyong of PDP, who reportedly won in all the eight out of 10 local government areas released by INEC. However, the result of Akpabio’s country home, Essien Udim LGA and that of the neigbouring Ikot Ekpene LGA were still pending. But, INEC has  suspended the announcement of results in Akwa Ibom North-West District. An INEC official in the state was quoted as saying that Mr Akpabio’s challenger, Chris Ekpenyong of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was leading in the results announced so far before the commission took a decision to suspend further announcement. He said: “We are having some issues with the election in Essien Udim Local Government Area. If we  accept the results from the local government area, Akpabio’s votes will overshoot that of Chris Ekpenyong. There are issues in the results which we are yet to be resolved.” Interestingly, the candidates of the PDP that contested the House of Representative elections won in all the eight LGA results released. Other Interesting Results However, House of Representatives Speaker,  Yakubu Dogara, retained his seat as he won the election in Bogoro LGA of Bauchi State. Also, Senator Dino Melaye retained his Kogi West seat. In Benue State, former Minister of Interior, Abba Moro, won the Benue South senatorial seat. Moro, a native of Okpokwu LGA, who contested on the platform of PDP, floored his main challenger, Steve Lawani of APC to clinch the seat currently being occupied by David Mark, immediate-past President of the Senate. The former Minister won all the local government areas in the zone with a wide margin. Announcing the result on Monday in Otukpo, the Returning Officer, Po Aunde Anune said Abba Moro of the PDP polled 88,192 votes, Steve Lawani of APC garnered 85,162 votes, Mike Onoja got 29,901 votes, while Usman Abubakar of APDA polled 5,504 votes. Senator Barnabas Gemade reportedly lost his Benue North east to former Governor Gabriel Suswam, while Senator George Akume of APC, the godfather of Benue politics reportedly lost his seat Benue North West too to PDP. But, some of the candidates in the Benue elections had been calling for cancelation. However, with some of the results yet to be announced by INEC, more upsets would be recorded, especially as controversies still existed in many states.