AWKA – Alor Peoples’ Convention (APC) on Sunday ended a seven-year-old feud when it elected a town union government to oversee the affairs of the city. This followed an order of Anambra High Court sitting in Awka, which asked Alor Regency Council to liaise with the electoral committee set up by the then Igwe-in-Council in 2012 to conclude election process to the executive committee of Alor People’s Convention, which election was aborted by security agents sent by the Anambra State government on April 14, 2012. Following the court order, the election committee, in conjunction with the Regency Council of Alor, reactivated the electoral process and scheduled an election, which held on Sunday, February 17. It is through this process that an 11-man executive committee was elected, headed by Uzoma Igbonwa as president-general and Dan Nwankwo as his vice. Also, Victor Chinedu Nwoyeka was elected secretary-general with Martin Asugo as his assistant. Others are: Prof. Ebenezer Mbaekwe, financial secretary and Afam Nwudo-Odenigbo as treasurer. Ngozi Udodi was elected legal adviser, Maduka Oyedu public relations officer, Obumneme Okonkwo and Osita Okide were elected provosts I and II and 18 representatives from each of Ichie Domains in Alor. In his speech, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, who hails from the community, chided Anambra State government for being undemocratic by denying the elected government for seven years despite his plea and request to the state government since 2014. Ngige congratulated the elected officials, while urging them to work as one and strive to restore peace, unity, harmony, brotherliness and solidarity among Alor indigenes and their neighbours. He also urged Alor indigenes both home and abroad to cooperate with the newly-elected executive committee by giving them the requisite support in the discharge of their duties. The town union deplored in no uncertain terms the actions of some disgruntled elements from the community, who, according to them, with the active support of Anambra State government, did everything possible to scuttle the holding of the court ordered election. The Ohaneze President General appealed to Anambra state government led by Willie Obiano, to allow democracy to thrive in Alor by resisting the pressure from some misguided elements bent on causing trouble and disharmony in Alor town. Furthermore, the union hailed the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government for his giant strides in the development of infrastructure in the South-East Zone and Alor in particular. It appreciated and commended the President, who they said, appointed their illustrious son, Ngige, as Minister of Labour and Employment. It expressed delight that the Federal Government had equally cited some ecological projects and skill acquisition centre in Alor, adding that they would use the rescheduled elections to appreciate the president.