The NDDC boss, who stated that the Niger Delta was being repositioned to attract investors in several growth areas beyond oil and gas, assured that specific policy initiatives targeting the root cause of the agitations in the Niger Delta were being prepared for rollout by the federal government. This, according to him, will apparently make the government to tackle security, law and order, power, transport infrastructure, modular refineries and investment in people. The NDDC Managing Director said with 18 universities spread across the nine states in the region, the Niger Delta was well positioned to provide the needed human resources to ensure viability and sustainability of investments. He declared: “We are also working with the business community to identify ways to overcome constraints and ensure businesses take advantage of the numerous opportunities in the region. Investors are invited to join us on this journey of discovery of the potentials in the Niger Delta region.”   The Federal Government’s commitment may be something to be happy about with the implementation of the National Action Plan (NAP) and ease of doing business in Nigeria while stressing that it will solicit private sector support for partnerships towards achieving the set goals. Also the recently established Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PBEC) with the aim of reviewing and addressing all encumbrances in the business environment is also something to be optimistic about. Subsequently, the Enabling Business Environment Secretariat, (EBES) under the leadership of the Office of the Vice President, Prof. YemiOsinbajo and the initiation of a 60-day strategy and National Action Plan to achieve the set goals will also improve Nigeria’s performance on the ease of doing business ranking. Enelamah reiterated that “as a government, we are committed to the partnership with the private sector, and the support to the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) is absolutely critical. I am positive that we are on a journey together, and that journey will absolutely come out right and we will have the right outcome eventually. “Movement of people and goods in and out of the country, transparency in government, regulations, registering business amongst others, all those areas are receiving attention, and I think that the important thing is to implement rightly, consistently and also sustainably.” Some indicators that the negative perception about doing business in Nigeria is gradually giving way to a new dispensation of dispatch in business transaction is the strengthening of the regulatory framework for investment such as the reviews of the Petroleum Industry Bill and the Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority law. Yet other indicators are political stability, economic diversification policies, transparent and less bureaucratic policy environment. However, given the fact on the latest Report that Nigeria has dropped on the World Bank’s 2019 ‘Doing Business’ report to 146th position, lower than the 145th position the country was ranked in 2017, there is need to strategise towards aiming at a more laudable position on the scale of ease of doing business. It would be recalled that the World Bank said it tracked 314 reforms by 128 governments across the world. Against the global bank’s tracking of countries efforts, it would not be out of place to say that “Nigeria carried out four reforms which included making starting a Business easier in Kano and Lagos, the two cities covered by Doing Business. Getting Electricity and Trading across Borders also saw reforms in the two cities.