Lagos – When Lobi Stats beat Gor Mahia of Kenya to qualify for the group stage of this year’s Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) Champions League, football lovers in Nigeria heaved sigh of relief that the Markurdi side has come to rescue the country from her continental woes. Lobi Stars had to bounce back from a two goal deficit to beat Gor Mahia. The reigning Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) champions beat the Kenyan league champions 2-0 in their 2019 CAF Champions League qualifier played on Saturday, December 22 at the Nnamdi Azikwe Stadium, Enugu. NPFL sides have struggled to reach the group stage of the continental showpiece in the last two editions. After a 3-1 loss to Gor Mahia in the first leg encounter played on Sunday, December 16, Lobi Stars had a mountain to climb to advance in the group stage of the second leg. Two goals from Sikiru Alimi gave Lobi Stars the advantage as they progressed on the away goals rule. And after the draw for the CAF Champions’ League group were done, the team found itself in Group A alongside former champions, Wydad Casablanca of Morocco, Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa and ASEC Mimosa of Cote d’Ivoire. Against all odds, Lobi Stars again raised the hopes of Nigerians with a brilliant 2-1 victory over Sundowns in the first Group match in Enugu.  However, their second group’s match ended in a 1-0 defeat to the Ivorian side in Abidjan. But last Friday’s loss to Wydad Casablanca in Enugu, has thus put the team and the country on a tight rope to qualify from the group. Come Tuesday, February 12, the team under the tutelage of Solomon Ogbeide will be in Morocco for the return leg of the match against Wydad Casablanca at the Stade Prince Moulay Abdallah, in a match that will make or mar the chances of the team in qualifying from the Group. As it is on the group’s table, Lobi Stars sit at the bottom of the table with just three points from three matches while Wydad Casablanca tops the table with six points from the same number of matches and edges Sundowns to the second position on superior goals scored. The question now on the lips of soccer loving Nigerians is whether there is any hope for Lobi Stars to scale through, having in mind that the team will travel to South Africa for Sundowns immediately after returning from Morocco while their last match will be against ASEC Mimosa in Enugu. “From my personal opinion, I think the players and officials were carried away with the victory over Sundowns. You know the team came from a goal down to win the match 2-1 and immediately after the match, they went to relax rather than step up preparations for other matches. “In the match against ASEC in Abidjan, they conceded a late goal after missing several scoring chances and when they should redeem their image last week against Wydad, they disappointed. “Without mincing words, it will be very hard for the team to qualify from the group but if they can pull the surprise with a draw in Morocco or a victory, then we can be hopeful of their qualification. “So what am saying is that we should wait till after the outcome of the match against Wydad on February 12 in Morocco before we can assess their chances in the group.  A defeat will automatically knock them out”, said former Team Manager of defunct Julius Berger FC, Engr. Mactony Taiwo. “It is a tough situation for the team and for the country. To qualify from the group, the team needs to win at least two of its remaining three matches and then pick up a draw. “This is where the task is huge considering the fact that the two top teams would not want to drop points. “They found themselves in this tight corner with the defeat suffered in the hands of Wydad last Friday and now the pressure would be on them not to lose again as a defeat in Morocco will definitely dent their hopes of qualifying”, said ex-international, Taiwo Oloyede. But despite losing at home to Wydad, head coach, Ogbeide still believes his wards can make amends and qualify for the semifinals. Speaking at the end of the match, the veteran coach insists that they can also pick points away from home to stay in business. “We are disappointed in the result, but this does not mean we are out of the competition. We still have three more games in the group, stage though we will be going to play away in two of those but we are confident we can get results away from home despite how difficult people may think it is”, said Ogbeide. Veteran coach, Abimbola Adesina, however called on the players to live up to expectations and be more determined in their approach in the remaining three matches. “In football, anything can happen. If Wydad can come here and beat them, there is nothing stopping them from also beating Wydad in Morocco. “It all bothers down to determination. They must take their fates in their hands and play the remaining matches as if they’ve not played any before. “They started the championship with a high hope and I think they can still keep it up.  They must not give up yet”, he said. SATURDAY INDEPENDENT is of the opinion that Benue State government did not do much in terms of motivating the team for the championship. Soccer pundits are also of the views that the team playing their home matches in Enugu, is like playing ‘home-away-from-home’ which in some ways might have contributed to their performance. “Believe it or not, the venue of their home matches speak volume of their performance and enjoying supports of their teeming fans. “There is little Enugu fans can give them in terms of support compare to what they might or would be enjoying if they play in Markurdi. “Again, what is the state government doing to ensure the team gets the maximum support needed to motivate and encourage the players and officials?”, asked a worried lover of the game, Anthony Okafor.