President Mohammadu Buhari on Saturday in Gombe State, said restoration of a lasting peace to the Northeast would be paramount in his agenda if re- elected for a second term. Buhari stated this while addressing the people of Gombe State when he went on campaign tour. He said already, there was a lot of improvement in the area of security in the sub-region compared with the situation on ground when he took over leadership of the country in 2015. He said other areas that would be accorded priority included the agriculture sector, as well as the anti-graft war. He expressed satisfaction with the success recorded in his first tenure, but pledged to do more if re-elected. The president thanked the people of the state for trooping out in numbers to welcome him to the state. Director-General of the APC campaign team, Mr Rotimi Amechi, said northeast was the traditional stronghold of Buhari. Amechi, who was represented by Alhaji Ali Ndume, Senator Representing Borno South, said people of the geo-political zone would forever remain grateful to Mr President for restoring peace to their area. Alhaji Danjuma Goje, former governor of the state and Senator Representing Gombe Central, expressed optimism that Buhari would garner more votes this year than what he secured in 2015. He called on the public, particularly the youth, to protect their votes. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to extend its exploration to six basins in the country. Buhari gave the directive at Barambu town in Alkaleri Local Government Area of the Bauchi state while flagging-off the commencement of drilling activities at Kolmani-II Oil Well, Gongola Basin, Upper Benue Trough. “Exploration in our frontier basins is imperative to the economy of the country. “I therefore, have directed NNPC to intensify its campaign in the Chad Basin, to discover new hydrogen to extend the economy of the people within the region and the nation at large. “Our next level is to ensure that exploration is extended to Chad Basin, Gongola Basin, Anambra Basin, Sokoto Basin, Dahomey Basin, Bida Basin and Benue Trough, for more prosperous Nigeria. “Gas and oil remain critical to the present economic development of our country and the future,” he said. According to him, they remain “key to the implementation of our budget at all levels of government. He commended the NNPC for the exploration into Kalmani River II Well, which he said, will spur-off socioeconomic activities. The president said that his association with hydrocarbon research started in Lake Chad as Federal Commissioner of Petroleum and Natural resources in 1976. “That era led to the drilling of 23 wells, which two were of gaseous, where NNPC acquired 2,000 square meters of land in the basin,” he said. The president commended the NNPC and other stakeholders in the Kolmani-II oil well project, just as he paid tribute to some university lecturers abducted while undergoing research work on the project. Buhari also commended security agents for working tirelessly to ensure that the area was safe to conduct exploration activities. He reiterated his administration’s determination in pursuing its goal of ensuring adequate security, enhancing the economy of the country, as well as fighting corruption. Group Managing Director of NNPC, Dr Maikanti Baru, had said that the exercise started some years back, but had to be suspended in 2000 as a result of the abduction of experts working on the project. While commiserating with those who made sacrifices towards ensuring the realization of the set goals, Baru said oil exploration was a capital-intensive project that took many years to accomplish. He however said that with patience and perseverance, success could be attained, and therefore commended all stakeholders, urging them to sustain their commitment.