D’Tigers will resume camping in preparation for their last FIBA World Cup qualifying tournament on Tuesday in Abidjan, venue of the fourth and final window of the 2019 World Cup qualifiers. D’Tigers have qualified for the World Cup having won all their games in both the first and second qualifying series to top their group. Tunisia and Angola are the other African countries that have also qualified. But Senegal are tipped to qualify needing just a win to be assured of a ticket. The last African ticket will be vied for by Cameroon, Central African Republic and Cote d’ ivoire. While Cameroon have completed their qualifying games, they are awaiting the outcome of group F where D’Tigers hold sway to determine their fate. However, as part of preparations for the qualifying series, Rivers Hoopers Buchi Nwaiwu and Ibe Abuchi Agu of Gombe Bulls have been invited as replacements for Ike Nwamu and Christopher Obekpa, who would be absent due to club engagements. According to the Team’s General Manager, Musa Adamu, Nwamu whose National team debut was at the 2017 FIBA Afrobasket for men in Tunisia just got traded from Wisconsin Herd to Indiana Pacers franchise and so he needed time to settle in. “Nwamu could not make it. He has just been traded from his club to Indiana Pacers, so he cannot afford to leave immediately.” The team manager of the high flying D’Tigers who are on a 9-game unbeaten streak said the inclusion of Buchi and Ibe Abuchi was based on their outstanding performances in 2018. “Buchi Nwaiwu was the Most Valuable Player of the FIBA Zone 3 club Championship in Cotonou where he helped his club (Rivers Hoopers of Port Harcourt) qualify for the maiden edition of the FIBA Afro League. He played very well and he was the most valuable player and the highest scorer.” “Ibe too was the MVP of the invitational championship played in Kano last year and also put up a good show at the National Sports Festival. Their performances never went unnoticed”, Adamu said. Having qualified for the World Cup holding later this year in China, Nigeria will hope to finish the qualifiers with their unbeaten record intact when they face host- Côte d’Ivoire on the 22nd of February. The team will battle Central Africa Republic on the 23rd while it will be the clash of two basketball powerhouses in Africa when Nigeria meets Senegal on the 24th. Nigeria who became the first country in the world to book its ticket to China defeated Senegal on Sunday, 16th of September 2018 by 81-61 with Ike Diogu weighing in with 17points and 9 rebounds.