Temidayo Akinsuyi, Samuel Ogidan, Innocent Oweh President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), took an early lead on Monday in some of the states’ election results collated by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) but the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected the announced results as “incorrect and unacceptable”. INEC in Abuja said President Buhari, in Ekiti, defeated the PDP candidate by 65,199 votes after polling a total of 219,231 votes as against Atiku’s 154,032 votes. According to the Returning Officer and the Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, Professor Idowu Olayinka, the total number of registered voters in the state is 899,919 and the total number of accredited voters is 395,741. In Osun, Buhari polled 347,634 votes, defeating Atiku who polled 337,377 votes, with the APC candidate leading with a margin of 10,257. The figures declared by the collation officers showed that Buhari led in 18 out of the 30 local government areas in the state, while Atiku led in the remaining 12 local government areas. In the FCT, Atiku had total votes of 259,997 to defeat Buhari who had 152,224 votes. The Collation Officer and Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Lafia, Nasarawa State, Prof. Mohammed Sanusi, said total number of registered voters are 1,335,015, total number of accredited voters are 467,784, total votes cast are 451,408, total valid votes are 423,951 while rejected votes amount to 27,457. It was a close contest in Nassarawa State though Atiku lost to President Buhari.  While APC polled 289, 903 votes, PDP had total votes of 283,847 votes. Prof. Azubuike Nwankwo, the Presidential Election Returning Officer, said that 613,720 voters were accredited, while the total votes cast at presidential election in the state stood at 599,399. He said that the total number of valid votes was 580,778, while 18,621 votes were rejected. Buhari also had the upper hand in Kwara State. According to the result announced by Prof. Abdullahi Bala of the Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger, who is the Collation Officer, the APC candidate had 308,984 votes while Atiku got 138,184 votes. The total number of registered voters are 1,401 895 while number of accredited voters are 489,482. Also in Kogi State, Buhari, according to results declared by INEC, had 285,894 votes while Atiku polled 218,207. Prof Michael Adikwu of the University of Abuja, who is the Returning Officer, announced that Buhari won in 14 out of the 21 LGAs of the state while Atiku won in seven. With 406, 961 votes, the APC also emerged victorious in Gombe State while the PDP came a distant second with 138,484 votes. In the result announced by the state Collation Centre Officer and Vice Chancellor of the Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola, Professor Kyari Mohammed, out of the 1, 385,191 registered voters in the state, a total of 604,240 voters were accredited and 580,649 cast their votes. He added that out of the total votes cast, 554,203 were valid, while a total of 26,446 votes were rejected. In Ondo, Atiku won the presidential election with 275,901 votes to defeat President Buhari of the APC who scored 241,769 votes. In the results announced by Prof. Kayode Soremekun, total accredited voters were 598,586, total votes cast are 586,827, while rejected votes were 30,833. President Buhari won in Yobe State with a total 497, 914 ahead of Atiku Abubakar who got 50,763 votes. INEC Returning Officer, Prof Abubakar Musa Gundiri, who is also the Vice Chancellor, Federal University, Wukari, Taraba State, while announcing the results  said Buhari scored 85 percent of the 586, 137 total votes cast. Atiku’s 50, 763 votes, also representing 8.6 percent of the votes cast. He said Yobe has a total of 1, 365,913 registered voters. Out of the figure, he said 601,059 voters were accredited for the election, 559,365 recorded as valid votes while 26,772 votes were rejected. PDP Rejects Nasarawa Results, Asks INEC To Void Results In Some Northern States Meanwhile, the PDP has rejected the Nasarawa State results as announced by INEC. The party rejected the results following the cancellation of 157, 591 votes from 86 polling units won by it. Addressing newsmen on Monday shortly after the announcement of Nasarawa State results, the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, though didn’t give a pass mark to the results of Osun, Ekiti, FCT, and Kwara as earlier announced, pointed out that the party was rejecting that of Nasarawa State. The PDP boss, who said all results from the Northern part of the country where card readers were not used should be voided in accordance with INEC guidelines, adding that the nation’s democracy was under threat. Explaining why PDP was rejecting some of the results, Secondus said: “I want to categorically state that our collation centres have all original results from every polling unit, in every ward, in every local government area (LGA) in Nigeria, of which the international community is well aware, implying all results currently being announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is incorrect, thus unacceptable to our party and people. “Secondly, officials of both President Buhari’s government and the All Progressives Congress (APC), working with INEC officers, have tried to alter the course of history and disenfranchise our people through the cancellation and manipulation of figures for results already announced at polling units nationwide in local government areas (LGAs) where our party, the PDP, had commanding votes; this must now be resisted by every well-meaning Nigerian. “The ruling party’s strategy has indeed been murderous, undignified, and disrespectful of the wishes of the electorate, our people and the international community who have been in solidarity with our nation as we attempt to strengthen our democracy and its institutions. “In full view of the watching world, and despite efforts by our great party and its agents to adhere to every laid down provision for the 2019 general elections, the APC in collusion with INEC have taken aggressive steps, mostly through inducements, manipulation and incarcerations, using the elements of state power including the Nigeria Police Force, the Nigerian Army in particular, alongside other organisations including the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to silence the voices of our long suffering people. This is disheartening, considering the terms of the Peace Accord, which called for impartiality and non-partisanship by members of our security organisations with constitutional roles to play during this civic exercise.” Secondus further emphasised how the presidency dispatched some of their men to manipulate results in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari. “As results trickled in on Sunday, February 24th, 2019, clearly putting the PDP in the lead, the ruling party and President Buhari dispatched high-ranking officials to coercively influence outcomes in different geopolitical zones in the country. For example: “The Minister of the Interior was dispatched to the North West of the country. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation was dispatched to the North East of the country; while the Attorney General and Minister of Justice was dispatched to the South East and South-South regions. “With the INEC IT server hacked by agents of the APC to manipulate results, we can with certainty state that results from the following polling units have, for example, been tampered with, note: Sarkin Dawaki ward in Doma LGA – Nassarawa State, Doka ward in Doma LGA – Nassarawa State, Agyaragin – Tofa ward, 10, 000 illegal votes added to already announced results in Wurno LGA in Sokoto State. Additionally, violent and destructive attacks have been meted out to officials while counting at Lafia St. and police barracks polling units. “As if these provocations are not enough, our agents and officials are constantly arrested and in many cases locked-up for complaining that card readers were not in use in many Northern states, implying that all results from the Northern part of the country where card readers were not used should be voided in accordance with INEC guidelines.” The PDP boss restated that the PDP presidential spokesman, Eng. Buba Galadima, should be released. “I also believe, the arrest of Eng. Buba Galadima, who has been a great symbol of what is courageous about our people goes to show that one man’s ambition is greater than our collective good, and most probably worth the blood of all Nigerians. “In that context, I call for Buba Galadima’s immediate and unconditional release, as well as that of all officials and agents of the PDP, in the South West, who were mostly arrested on the eve of the elections where intimidation became the APC’s sole election strategy,” he said. APC Asks International Observers To Call PDP To Order Festus Kayemo, Director, Strategic Communications, APC Presidential Campaign Council, has reacted to the outrage so far expressed by the opposition PDP, discrediting the ongoing result collation by INEC. According to Kayemo, the international community, especially the media and observers, should as a matter of urgency call the PDP to order. In a statement on Monday in Abuja, he said it became imperative to issue the warning against the backdrop of the dangerous extent to which the main opposition party was taking the machinations to discredit and destabilise the process that would lead to a logical completion of the February 23, 2019 presidential elections by way of announcement of results in line with the established procedure in the Electoral Act. The APC Presidential Council said from reports received in the Situation Room of the Election Planning and Monitoring Directorate of the APC from across the country, at this point it is safe to conclude that INEC had done a good job despite the challenges and the delays experienced in some cases. According to him, with over 84 million Permanent Voter Cards (72 million collected), mobilising the citizenry to exercise their democratic right to vote has been a massive undertaking but, thankfully, it was conducted largely peacefully and on schedule.