Comrade Terver Aginde is the National Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), North Central Zone of Nigeria. In this interview with JOSEPH UNDU, he said APC will win Benue with the first ballot while placing the incumbent Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at a distance third. Excerpts: How would you rate APC in Benue state? Benue state is APC and I can bet you we are winning Benue with the first ballot. But several surveys have shown that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is having a strong hold in Benue. Why are you so sure that APC will win? I doubt if the surveys were done in the rural areas. If you go to the rural areas in Benue state, you will discover that the people have discovered the lies and deceit of the PDP government of Gov. Samuel Ortom. And again, the issue of the herdsmen killings have totally exposed the PDP. How can a government that cannot pay salaries, pension and develop infrastructure be rated above an APC federal government that has given our youths employment through Npower program, school feeding and has awarded contracts for roads in the state?. But there are several claims and counter claims over the issue of herdsmen attacks in Benue. Tell us from an insider account the truth about this to put the record straight? I cannot give you the true position of issues of security or do you want me to behave like the PDP governor? How is the APC going to clear the people’s doubt on insecurity that they will protect them if elected? APC government has been on top of the security situation in Benue. It was the governor that was over flogging the security issue. And again, you do not handle security situation on the pages of newspapers. He ended up disconnecting the state from the federal government and that results to him giving himself a red card which saw him leaving the party that brought him to power unceremoniously. What should the people of Benue expect from APC if voted into office? We have our manifestoes and our incoming governor, Rt Hon. Barr. Emmanuel Jime has given areas which he’s going to focus more on. His administration will anchor on security, agriculture , better health care services, free and qualitative education, improved infrastructure development and job creation. What is your take on the allegation that, your candidate Barr. Jime is being sponsored by Miyetti Allah? This is pure lies and wickedness from the PDP to poison the minds of the good people of Benue against the APC. We do not need to do anything, the people themselves have come to realise that it’s lies and mischief by the Ortom led failed government to gain cheap sympathy. Now, tell us what APC led federal government has done to North Central region to deserve a second term? The North Central region has never had it so good like this before. Almost all the federal roads in the North Central have been contracted for repairs and reconstruction of new ones. We have benefited more than any region on the school feeding program and Npower program and we are expecting more in the next level. In your own opinion, which party do you think will come first, second and third in Benue gubernatorial election? APC will come first, Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) will come second and PDP last. What is your advice to North Central youths ahead of 2019 general elections? My advice to them is that, they should not allow themselves to be deceived; North Central would not play opposition regional politics. I appeal to them to come out and vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and all APC candidates in the forthcoming general elections.