Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Child of God, do you really know who you are? Do you know that you are not just an ordinary human being? Do you even know that you are destined for greatness? People around you may see you as a nobody or good-for-nothing. They may not recognise your greatness. But today, I want to remind you that you are destined for greatness! The book of Jeremiah 1:4-19 has something to say concerning your true identity in relation to God: God Knows You: “Before I formed you in the womb I knew you” Your President may not know you. Your governor may not know you. Even your family members may not know your true identity but God knows everything about you. In the book of Isaiah 43:2 the Lord God declares, “I have called you by name – you are mine.” Imagine, God knows you by name! God knows you even more than you know yourself. To show how much God knows you in the gospel of Matthew 10:30 our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “As for you, even the hairs of your head have all been counted. So do not be afraid; you are worth much more than many sparrows.” If God knows the number of your hair there is nothing He does not know about you. He knows your going out and your coming in. he knows those who are for you and those who are against you. God knows your innermost thought. He knows your secret and hiding places. The Psalmist asked an important question: “Where could I go to escape from you? Where could I get away from your presence? If I went to heaven, you are there; If I lay down in the world of the dead, you are there. if I flew away beyond the east or lived in the farthest place in the west, you are there to lead me, you are there to help…” (Psalm 139:7-10). Child of God, as long as God is concerned your life is well secured. You Are Consecrated: “before you were born I consecrated you.”  You are not ordinary. You are a consecrated human being. Your consecration came directly from God. Right from the time you were in your mother’s womb the Lord has already consecrated you. You are indeed among the people set apart. You are a chosen vessel unto glory. You are the apple of God’s eye. You Are A Prophet To Your Nation: “I appointed you a prophet to the nations.” You are a prophetic child. You are God’s mouthpiece. You are the channel through which God communicates with His chosen ones. You are not just an ordinary prophet but also a prophet the nations. Through you nations will come to know about God. You are the intermediary between God and the people. Today’s gospel (Luke 4:21-30) presents our Lord Jesus Christ as a rejected prophet. As St. John rightly wrote, “He came to his own country, but his own people did not recognize him. some, however, did receive him and believed in him; so he gave them the right to become God’s children” (John 1:11-12). Our Lord Jesus Christ was not discouraged by the rejection of his people. Even in the midst of rejection and persecutions He succeeded in his mission. Child of God, no amount of rejection or persecution can frustrate you. You are unstoppable! People around may not recognize you as a prophet but in God’s sight you are a great prophet. You are the light of your nation. You are the channel of God’s message. As the Lord declares through the prophet Ezekiel 2:5 “Whether those rebel listen to you or not, they will know that a prophet has been among them.”  All those who rejected you will soon come looking for you. You Are A Fortified City: “And I for my part have made you today a fortified city, an iron pillar, and a bronze wall, against the whole land” Child of God, do you know that you are the most secured person in the world? God will always provide security for you. Psalm 125 describes you as Mount Zion that cannot be moved. “As the mountains surrounds Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people now and forever.” So, you are not alone! Indeed, you are unshakable! You are an iron pillar! You are a bronze wall! No weapon fashioned against you shall prosper. Evil arrows are not for you. Those evil bullets will never touch you. You are unbeatable! You are indestructible! You are untouchable! Every tongue that shall rise against you in judgment shall be condemned (Isaiah 54:17). You are like a fortified city that cannot be invaded. You life is well secured in Jesus name – Amen! You Are Unbeatable: “They will fight against you; but they shall not prevail against you” Those who are fighting you are wasting their time. In his letter to the Romans 8:37-39 St. Paul describes you as victorious warrior: “No, in all these things we have complete victory through him who loved us! For I am certain that nothing can separate us from his love: neither death nor life, neither angels nor other heavenly rulers or powers, neither the present nor the future, neither the world above nor the world below – there is nothing in all creation that will ever be able to separate us from the love of God which is ours through Christ Jesus our Lord.” (Romans 8:37-39). Indeed, one with God is majority. As long as God is on your side victory is on your side. If God with you, favour is with you. If God stands for you nobody can stand against you. If God says yes to you nobody can say no. If God approves you, nobody can condemn you. If God blesses you, nobody can curse you. If God liberates you, nobody can enslave you. If God promotes you nobody can demote you. As long as God is on your side, victory is on your side. You are unbeatable. And as St. Paul rightly declares, you are more than conqueror! The Lord Will Surely Deliver You: “I am with you, says the LORD, to deliver you.” One with God is majority. Child of God, do you know that God is with you? In the gospel of Matthew 28:20 our Lord Jesus Christ assured his followers, saying, “I will be with you always, to the end of the age.” Child of God, no matter what you are passing through be rest assured that you are not alone. God is ever with you. Your period of loneliness is over! God is not just there with you; He is with you to defend you. He has come to protect you. He has come to deliver you from bondage and from the hands of your enemies. As long as God concerned, you will not remain in bondage forever. You will not remain a slave forever. You will not remain poor forever. You will not remain indebted forever. You will not even remain in darkness forever.  From today, your life will never be the same. When the Israelites were in bondage the Lord sent Moses to deliver them from slavery and bondage.  He told Moses, “I have seen how cruelly my people are being treated in Egypt; I have heard them cry out to be rescued from their slave-drivers. I know all about their sufferings, and so I have come down to rescue them out of Egypt to a specious land, one which is rich and fertile…” (Exodus 3:7-8). That was exactly what happened. The Lord God actually used Moses to deliver the Israelites from bondage.  Child of God, your period of slavery is over! Your period of suffering and hardship is over. As you remain connected to the Most High God you shall be connected to your greatness and it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!