Ladies Golf Association of Nigeria (LGAN) has thumbed up U Fit Fly and Megamound for the sponsorship of the forthcoming Ibadan Ladies Open and Captain’s Day tournament noting that it was a welcome development given the present economic situation of the country. Megamound, the official sponsor of the tournament tagged “2- in-1”; will supply the prize items as plasma television sets, refrigerators, pressing irons among others items that will be up for grabs. In the same vein, U Fit Fly will be offering a trip to three countries – Kenya in East Africa; Oman and Dubai (United Arab Emirates) in the Middle East. Ekanem Ekwueme, LGAN President in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday said, “LGAN really appreciates these companies for sponsorship of the Ibadan Ladies Open; it is not easy sourcing sponsors in recent times because the individuals and Corporate Organizations who usually sponsor these events are facing serious financial challenges.” “LGAN also have to commend the Lady for these sponsors, especially now that the LGAN Open Championship Tournaments are World Amateur Golf Ranking (WAGR) events. This implies that the Championship does not only have international backing, but it is an international tournament too – players from all walks of life can participate,” she said. In this regard, the President was appreciative of the economic importance of the tournament: “The sponsors, the economy will get a boost – hotels, other SMEs – will make brisk business while the tournament lasts as an international tournament – with World Amateur Golf and R&A backing; these are some of the good things that come with sporting activities as golf in any clime,” LGAN Presidents expatiated. The LGAN President harped on the need for golfers to play according to the rules adding, “There is so much to gain in every endeavor; in this tournaments, U Fit Fly has done noble with offer of foreign trip and Magamound coming up with the prize items – as Amateurs, we play the game for the challenges and the pleasure it presents, only Professionals Golfers play for money – so, we should play by the rules.” Dr. Tope Farombi, the Ibadan Ladies Captain also in an earlier chat had revealed that the foreign trip is opened to all participants by raffle draw, while the electronic items would be won based on performances in the events. The captain in the popular saying of “Oliver (Twist) asks for more,” affirmed that there was need for more sponsors giving the size of the tournament – 2-in-1. The tournament begins from March 14-17: Day-1, Thursday March 14 is arrival and Ceremonial Tee Off, followed by a cocktail party; Day-2, Friday March 15 is Tournament Day-1 and Day-2, Saturday March 16. Tournament Day-3 is Sunday March 17 and presentation of prizes. Men will play as guests as registration has been on-going.