While calling on Federal Government to intervene on Third Motor Policy, Ajiboye stated:  “We’re helping the insurance companies to get richer by the Third Party Motor Policy, though we were told of the benefits, people hardly go for it and the following year you renew. “When I had the opportunity of reaping the benefits, my insurance company was not forthcoming for reasons I consider trivial and I’ve not heard from any of my friends or relations gaining from it. The government can scrap it; let’s focus on the Comprehensive Insurance.” However, Mr. Imode Osas said he once got N300,000 from his insurance company to repair a wall damaged by his Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV). Speaking on the challenges of poor knowledge by policyholders of the Third Party Motor Insurance despite of its immense is not regarded despite its benefits, Dr. Oscar Odiboh, an auto analyst and senior lecturer, Covenant University (CU), Ota, Ogun State, examined the policy from three perspectives, saying that third-party insurance, particularly in the automotive industry, was not a good scenario. From the government perspective, he said the government has the responsibility of regulating and ensuring that the particulars of vehicles are in order and up to date through the security agents ensuring that your particulars are complete. From the insurance perspective, Odiboh pointed out that there are two types of auto insurance; comprehensive, which is highly expensive, but more reliable in terms of a prompt settlement. According to Odiboh, a lot of people have their cars, but cannot afford comprehensive insurance; hence third party policy becomes a welcome development. “We have people that have their cars parked for months in times of accident, yet they have comprehensive insurance because the insurance companies are not prompt in settling claims. This is the key reason the insurance industry is not growing the way it ought to because there is of lack of integrity; how many of the insurance companies have integrity? “When there is an accident involving your insured vehicle, the automotive company cannot give you a car to move around, the insurance company cannot provide one in the meantime as you await claims. These are services that can be used to up the value of the insurance, while the insurance company is still processing your claims for long. With this delay, therefore, people just go for third party policy, which is cheap and just get their cars fixed by the defaulters when accidents occur. “If the car is older, it is the insurance that is higher so people go for the third party because of its affordability. Even, the insurance companies have made it more attractive and then make car owners drive carefully because in the third party you take care of the person’s car you hit,” he explained. However, Odiboh wondered how many people that can boast of hitting somebody and going for claims, which he said has encouraged fake insurance certificates and third party as a cheaper option. “This why people hit others and either blocks the road to argue or run; if they have comprehensive insurance they will just exchange their insurance companies. You find out that comprehensive insurance is better than the third party, but for its high cost,” he said. He gave ignorance of some people of the benefits that third-party policy can give them as another reason this insurance policy is not regarded, saying that this causes a lot of damage to our psyche because people fight and argue right on the middle of the road. According to him, though third-party motor insurance is cheap and easily secured, but insisted it lacks relevance. However, he posited that stopping the policy was not a way out, arguing that once such a step is taken; it would create more chaos and room for anarchy on the road. He noted that most motorists cannot afford the comprehensive insurance and third party policy, which is mandatory, stressing that if stopped, motorists would go with the mindset that whatever happens to their vehicles on the road could not be covered by insurance. Odiboh said: “If you remove third party motor insurance, you will be creating more room for anarchy on the road. I don’t have insurance, so if you hit me, I turn around and hit you. I’ll damage your car as much as you damaged mine.’ We can’t afford to remove the third-party, but ensure that it works as it should. Also, the cost of comprehensive insurance is lowered; the difference between comprehensive insurance on new and used cars is much; this should be reduced. “To solve this, the automobile insurance, insurance stakeholders and auto reporters should come together for a dialogue on how to settle this and make it work the way it ought to so that we ensure that people don’t suffer inadequacy of these insurances. “Look the traffic police does not need to talk much if there is third party insurance. So, ignorance in the land and impatience in the land both make third-party motor insurance inappreciable because people do not know that their cars or property can be fixed if the damage is caused by a vehicle with third party insurance. Also, they do not want to wait to go through the process of claims to secure the required fund to carry out the necessary damage or replacement. “The security agents should find a way to remove accidental vehicles from the road, confirm who is at fault and check their third-party certificates. Again how many insurance companies have the capital to handle all the complaints they get; they will be out of business looking at all the altercations on the road, they’ll be defaulting, some of them can’t even pay their workers. That is why they need to recapitalise. The challenge in the insurance company is not helping the automobile industry at all.” Also speaking, Mr. Patrick Adenusi, the Chief Executive Officer, Safety Beyond Borders, said third motor insurance was not working in Nigeria because of the ease of obtaining the fake document. He explained that fake third party insurance certificate was in circulation more than the authentic document. “The third party is N5, 000; a motorist who had fake third-party motor insurance policy parted with N3, 000 when apprehended by the law enforcement agencies in Ikeja, Lagos. That same day, he was apprehended by another set of the law enforcement agencies in Oshodi, Lagos and he also parted with another N3, 000. He spent N6, 000 in one day whereas he is covered for 365 days for N5, 000,” he pointed out. Corroborating Odibo, Adenusi explained that in case of an accident, the motorists involved are expected to inform their insurer of the incident, but regrettably, he said the number of third-party motor insurance policyholders going for claims are limited, while most of them still pay to repair the vehicle of the third party because of ignorance or impatience on the party of the other party. “The driver on the right side or whose vehicle is damaged says they can’t wait for the insurance to fix their vehicles, so, the cost is borne by the motorist at fault,” he noted. Insurance Companies Speak Mr. Olatumbosun Akinlosotu of Business Development Department, Cornerstone Insurance, confirmed that there are a lot of benefits in third-party insurance, which covers property damage to the tune of N1million. He explained that it is the insured that is responsible for an incident or accident that makes the claim but does not benefit, rather the insurance company bears the damage he has caused another motorist. He disagreed that the claim process is cumbersome, saying that this only happens when the so-called insured presented a fake policy. “Often times they have not bought from the right office, but licensing offices for fake policies. They may falsify the name of the company, but when they bring the policy when issues for claims arise, they won’t be able to make claim,” he said. He added that some insurance companies may have a relationship with licensing offices to sell their third-party motor policy, but that it makes claiming process tedious, so it is better to go the insurance company. He maintained that people come for third-party settlements in Cornerstone Insurance Company with less hassle. According to Akinlosotu, the company a couple of times had taken steps to create awareness on the importance of third-party motor insurance through radio adverts, stressing that other insurance companies also carry out same campaign through different media outfits.