Despite mounting criticisms against the Independent National Commission (INEC) by some prominent Nigerians and some opposition parties, the electoral body, for the umpteenth time expressed its readiness for the elections commencing next week. However, the commission says all its actions would be based on legal and constitutional stipulations. Barrister Festus Okoye, National commissioner and chairman information and voter education, reiterated the commitment of the commission yesterday in Lagos. “The time for debate is over and we are ready for the elections. All the National Officers have been redeployed to the field to ensure that everything is in order. We had a robust engagement with the ASUU and their members would participate. Training of Corps members is ongoing and shortfall will be made up with final year students of federal tertiary institutions. “The Commission will conduct the election based on legal and constitutional stipulations. The Commission will also continue to conduct its activities in total obedience to the rule of law and due process,” Okoye said. Continuing, he said, “The Commission has enhanced the smart card readers in readiness for the election. The commission has validated the framework for IDPs voting and regulations for IDPs voting. Also, the Commission has introduced the use of braille jackets, magnifying glasses and assistive posters for persons with disability.” The National Commissioner listed some challenges of the commission but says they will all be resolved based on the principle of justice. “The size of ballot papers and the number of political parties on the ballot, management of polling units and the number of party agents as well as conflicting courts orders from primary elections are some of the challenges,” he said. On criticism of the All Progressives Party for inviting two Governors from Nigeria to Kano during presidential campaign, the INEC commissioner says the commission will take a critical look at and the provisions of the law, with the view to advising the commission accordingly. He reiterated the determination of the commission to remain impartial in the discharge of its duties. On integrity issues raised by former president Olusegun Obasanjo and others, he said the commission naturally takes comments by the Nigerians seriously adding that some of the innovations and changes made so far were products of criticisms.