Lagos – Bearing in mind the various illegal interferences in electoral processes in Nigeria and its attendant protests in the tribunals, the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos recently organised a lecture with the theme: The Power of the Electorate in a Democracy:  Nigeria as a Case Study. The lecture, which could not have come at a better time, aimed at dissecting the power of the electorate in a true democracy and the extent to which they can exercise such powers. Some leaders of thought in the process took time out to educate Nigerians on what constitutes the true Nigerian situation in an electoral process. Issues were raised as to whether Nigeria was actually practicing a democracy as to then determine the powers of the electorate and if in existence, the type of democracy that was being practiced. Like Rev Fr. Adewale Martins, Catholic Archbishop of Lagos pointed out, the theme goes to the heart of the ideals of true democracy, which locates and allocates sovereignty on the people. Unfortunately, he said, this imperative of a people centred and people driven democracy has been fraught with all manners of socio-political contradictions since the dawn of the present 20 years of unbroken democracy in the country. According to the Archbishop, rather than improve on the fortunes of the country these 20 years, Nigeria’s democratic practice has left the Nigerian state on the brink of collapse. While quoting the late Tunji Braithwaite, Adewale said that a people who have not mastered the art of putting worthy people in power, will end up with charlatans and criminals as leaders. He indicated that a few days to the commencement of the national elections, there are still pertinent questions that require some answers. These questions, the Archbishop noted, include: what are the responsibilities of the electorate? How should they conduct themselves at the polls? What should form some of the major parameters to judge who they should cast their votes for? How can they ensure that their votes truly count? How prepared is INEC and the law enforcement agencies to ensure free and fair elections? And many more! Prof Oyelowo Oyewo of the Faculty of Law, University of Lagos in his lecture disclosed that though there is a divergence of interest between the politicians and the electorate, that the only way to make the politicians interested in what the electorate are interested in is for the electorate to exercise their electoral power in a democratic process. To further substantiate his point, he quoted Thomas Jefferson who said that the cornerstone of a democracy rests on the foundation of an educated electorate. Educated electorate, he said, does not imply speaking good English, but being politically savvy to understand the power that they hold. Going by the common description of democracy in consonance with the theme of the lecture, he remarked that in Nigeria, one element of the topic (government of the people), was lacking. Hence, he maintained that what was operational in the country was a ‘Democratisation Experimentation’ as the main attribute of a democracy is ‘a free and fair election’. One of the foundational issues that the country needs to address, the Don suggested, was a move away from dictatorial military governance that has changed hand from Khaki to Agbada. “Power is the relationship for change of the subject of the exercise of the power and the donor of the power. And that is why governance is not that I am giving you the power to just go and do whatever you want. I am giving you the power because we cannot all exercise the power. And that is also where people get it wrong. I should be able to ask you, did you exercise your power for my benefit. “There is lack of information. In other well established democracies, even the way you vote is being recorded. The subject matter that constitutes the core of your mandate that you have carried out is documented; even the ideology that you represent, whether you are conservative, liberal or whatever.” While explaining the current voter apathy in the country, Oyewo stated that it is actually a confusing state of affairs for the electorate as from all indications they don’t have a choice of candidate presently. In his words, How can the electorate be expected to choose when there is no choice? If you are APC today, you were formerly in PDP; and if you look at PDP today, they comprise former APC members. The problem in the country, he hinted, is that the electorate themselves are uninformed and not particularly interested. They thrive on ignorance.