Third Party Insurance Policy is the cheapest of all vehicle insurance policies. Third Party Insurance is procured annually at just N5,000, but most vehicle owners are ignorant of the attendant benefits of this document. APATA OYENIRAN, CHRIS EBONG and OLUSEGUN KOIKI take a look at the benefits of this policy. Third-party insurance is essentially a form of liability insurance purchased by an insured (first party) from an insurer (second party) for protection against the claims of another (third party). The first party is responsible for their damages or losses, regardless of the cause of those damages. There are two types of automobile third-party liability coverage. First, bodily injury liability covers costs resulting from injuries to a person. These injuries’ costs could include expenses like hospital care, lost wages, and pain and suffering due to the accident. Second, property damage liability covers costs resulting from damages to or loss of property. Examples of property damage include the payment to replace landscaping and mailboxes, as well as compensation for loss of use of a structure. Many Nigerian vehicle owners are in the dark concerning the accrued benefit of third party motor insurance, a mandatory insurance policy for every motorist as directed by the Federal Government. Vehicle owners still individually repair third-party vehicle/property damage caused by their vehicles even when they are holders of the third party motor insurance policy. Research has shown that about 96 per cent of Nigerians who carry the Third Party Motor Insurance Policy are ignorant of what they stand to benefit by this policy hence, they lose this benefit year-in-year-out even when the need to make claims arises. Invariably the insurance companies continue to enjoy almost 100 per cent of the entire premium made from Third Party Motor Insurance, thanks to the ignoramus that created this opportunity, but to his own loss. Just like in the aviation industry, an aircraft can be termed “not airworthy” even with all the valid and workable equipment and papers, but without adequate insurance cover. Reports claimed that the November 10, 2006, Sosoliso Airline crash in which about 100 onboard souls were lost, could not return to flight operations because as at the time of the ill-fated accident, the aircraft had invalid insurance cover. The industry regulator, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) had insisted that the airline would only be allowed to return to operations if the insurance claim were paid to the next-of-kin of the deceased, a condition the airline could not meet until it finally closed shop. However, on vehicle insurance, of the entire compulsory insurances, ‘Third Party Motor Insurance Policy’ remains the most enforced and at the same time, the one less benefitted from by holders of this policy is considered an anomaly that should be redressed. There are three basic motor insurance covers; Comprehensive Motor Policy, Third Party, Fire  Motor Policy made mandatory by the Federal Government through the Insurance Act of 2003. Out of the three, the Third Party is the minimum insurance required by law for every vehicle owner. Legally, a vehicle driver is not expected to drive an automobile on the highways without valid insurance. Third Party Motor Insurance in Nigeria has its legal backing in Section 68 of the Insurance Act of 2003. The Act states that: ‘No person shall use or cause or permit any other person to use a motor vehicle on a road unless a liability which he may thereby incur in respect of damage to the property of third parties is insured with an insurer.’ The Third Party Policy provides indemnity to third parties for death, bodily injury and property damage as a result of an accident involving the insured’s automobile. However, often than not, motorists and drivers do not take this policy seriously let alone going for the benefits when involved in accidents or incidents. Rather, they secure this policy for the purpose of what goes with the slogan ‘Police-Let-Me-Pass’ in the local parlance. It is mandatory and cheap, hence people mostly go for it in order not to be disturbed or stopped by the law enforcement agents that operate on the roads like the officials of the Police, Federal Road Safety Corps, Lagos State Transport Management Agency (LASTMA), Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIOs) and others. An enquiry by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, and responses obtained from a good number of vehicle owners with a third party insurance policy had their vehicles damaged vehicles belonging to other road user demonstrated ignorance of the benefits. They were of the view that third party basically enriches the insurers because it is mandatory with little or no claims in a whole year. Most said they hardly had cause to seek claims and when they had, either they forgot and went ahead to handle the repairs personally or were sceptical of the delay or other complications from the insurance companies. Hence, the number of people benefitting from this policy remains minimal. Engr. Emy Daniel, a private vehicle driver with over 20 years’ experience, said that he had not benefitted from the third party insurance policy before. Daniel, however, refused to blame the insurance companies for his inability to benefit from the policy, rather, said he had not pressed for his right. “I hardly remember I have that policy let alone remembering the benefits. I just renew it yearly along with other vehicle particulars to avoid embarrassment from the law enforcement agents on the roads. “The few times my car hit someone else’s  cars along Agege Motor Road, I had to fix it myself; my mind didn’t even go to the Third Motor Policy I carry and I tell you it’s like that with most Nigerians.” But, Mrs. Eniola Ajiboye, another motorist has a different experience to share on the compliance of insurance companies to the third party insurance. According to her, the vehicle she was driving once hit someone else’s wall and she made attempts to get her claim as spelt out in the insurance cover but claimed that her insurance company (name withhold), employed delay tactics, which compelled her to repair the broken wall by herself.