The latest threat by the Federal Government to crackdown on members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on the suspicion that they are planning to disrupt the coming general elections may lead to more of them fleeing the country. Lt. General Tukur Buratai, Chief of Army Staff, said last Monday, that a “total crackdown” on IPOB members and other trouble makers in the southeast and other parts of the country had become inevitable if the coming elections would be held in an orderly manner. The IPOB had in January directed its members across the Southeastern states of Nigeria not to participate in the forthcoming general elections, saying, “Nigeria has been hijacked by a single ethnic group, the Fulani.” Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture, also last Monday, complained that some foreign interests were conniving with certain Nigerians he did not name to create chaos during the elections. Buratai who spoke same day on a national television, threatening immediate “total crackdown” on the separatist group over threat to disrupt the forthcoming general elections in Nigeria’s Southeast region. According to IPOB, its members’ boycott of the elections was the only way to show the whole world that they were serious in their agitation to ensure the emergence of a sovereign Biafra they had been longing for. Chukwuma Anyanwu, a leader of IPOB faction in Imo State restated its members’ commitment to actualising their objectives in the southeastern states, “in a peaceful manner despite the threats by the security forces.” “IPOB activities have been peaceful and we have never borne arms. Yes, our members may be fleeing, but it is not out of cowardice, but a demonstration of the saying that he who fights and runs away lives to fight again. Strategy is part and parcel of IPOB,” Anyanwu said. He said IPOB’s aim towards achieving its goal and desire could not be truncated by an orchestrated attempt to misinform the public by enemies of Biafra, both within and without. Buratai had ordered smooth execution of Operation Safe Conduct, which he said, was to assist in successful conduct of the coming elections. He said: “The activities of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and their splinter groups in the Southeastern part of the country is gaining momentum as the group is threatening to disrupt the 2019 electoral process. Their excesses must therefore be clamped down immediately. “Furthermore, the political clashes in Taraba State and a few other states, call for enhanced liaison between commanders, the Nigeria Police and other security agencies in order to de-escalate tension as quickly as possible.” However, Okechukwu Nwanguma, National Coordinator, Network on Police Reform in Nigeria (NOPRIN), described some of the actions of the Nigerian Army as incredible. Nwanguma said: “It is indeed unfortunate that the Army authorities would be blowing hot, displaying firepower and strength when it comes to dealing with unarmed civilian groups agitating and making political demands. But, the same army is unable to deal with real armed criminals.” “They have failed woefully in tackling Boko Haram who are having a free ride, terrorising communities in the Northeast and even killing soldiers in unaccountable numbers. “This is to the extent that our soldiers are complaining of being sent to fight ill-equipped and some are even deserting. But they find strength in killing unarmed civilians in the Southeast.” “Therefore, we urge Biafrans, both home and abroad, to advise their families not to vote and totally boycott this coming election no matter the level of promises and inducement politicians of these days might have given them,” Kanu said. “People are at liberty to twist, fabricate and misunderstand IPOB, but the people of Biafra understand clearly where we are going. We will continue to deploy all forms of civil disobedience, most notably boycott of every Nigerian election until they give us date for Biafra referendum”, IPOB said in a statement by Emma Powerful, its Media and Publicity Secretary.