LAGOS – Etoile du Sahel ended Enugu Rangers’ eight-game unbeaten run in the 2019 CAF Confederation Cup with a 2-1 win over the Flying Antelopes. But despite the setback, Gbenga Ogunbote, the coach of Rangers, believes that they were on the right path to qualify for the quarter final. Rangers started brightly as Bright Silas shot them in front in Sousse in 15 minutes but two goals from the former African champions in the 35th and 64th minutes ended Rangers’ unbeaten run, taking the Flying Antelopes down to second spot on the log. Etoile du Sahel equalised through Iheb Msakni in the 35th minute before Saddam Ben Aziza beat the Enugu Rangers defence in the 64th minute. However, Ogunbote maintained that Rangers would still make the last eight at the end of the group games. “We are not disturbed by the result in Tunisia. We gave everything in that match and took the lead only for them to equalise and led. But we are very much on course for a place in the quarter final because we want to make a name four ourselves in this team,” he said. Nigerian Federation Cup holders will face Etoile du Sahel at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu, at the weekend in a match that will be like a payback time for the Tunisians. A win for Rangers will take them closer to the knockout round. CX Sfaxien lead the group (Group B) with five points and are followed by Rangers on four points and +1 goals difference while Etoile du Sahel are third with four points and zero goals difference while Salitas of Cot d’Ivoire are fourth with two points after third round of matches. Meanwhile, Christian Chukwu, a former Super Eagles Coach and Technical Adviser of Rangers, on Monday said that the club would defeat Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia in a return leg. “Rangers I know will take their own pound of flesh in Enugu, if the Tunisians come to Enugu. “We are not unbeatable but we will beat them in Enugu anytime they come,” Chukwu said. Rangers played out a 1-1 draw with CS Sfaxien away in Tunisia in their second group game of the CAF Confederation Cup to have four points from their first two games.