American comedian Brody Stevens – who played a cop in The Hangover – has been found dead in Los Angeles at the age of 48. The stand-up apparently committed suicide by hanging yesterday, according to reports from the US. In a statement, his representative said: “Brody was an inspiring voice who was a friend to many in the comedy community. “He pushed creative boundaries and his passion for his work and his love of baseball were contagious. He was beloved by many and will be greatly missed.” He had previously spoken of his depression and mental health issues, and he and Hangover stat Zach Galifianakis produced a Comedy Central show about his battle with biopolar disorder entitled Enjoy Iy! His TV credits includeLate Night with Conan O’Brien, Jimmy Kimmel Live! and Chelsea Lately. Fellow comics paid tribute on Twitter. Jim Gaffigan said: ‘Like many fellow comedians @tedalexandro and I sat dumbstruck on this Friday night after our show thinking about our friend Brody Stevens. Not to be all sappy but Brody’s passing made Ted and I realize how special all you comedians are. I’m so grateful to know each of you. Thx” Neil Hamburger wrote: “Brody Stevens ditching “material” was like Dylan going electric! Man I’m gonna miss hearing him running through Valley high school names, or regurgitating his resume, and making it funnier than any joke.” Patton Oswalt said: “On his old website, Brody Stevens had a pic of him and @davidcrosss with the caption “2 Generations of Laughter” and I don’t know why but that always laid me out. I think Cross is maybe 5 years older than him. If you are depressed or feeling suicidal please please please please please reach out to ANYONE. I never get to see Brody Stevens again I can’t stand this. Here’s Brody closing the last Comedy Bang Bang stand-up show back in 2012 with nothing but positive energy. RIP Brody Stevens pic.twitter.com/qZNlkwemFF — Kevin T. Porter (@KevinTPorter) February 22, 2019  The marquee at the Comedy Store in LA last night read: “We enjoyed it. RIP Brody Stevens” – while the club’s Twitter feed said: ‘We enjoyed it Brody. Rest in peace, thank you for being a great friend, a fearless comic, and a good guy.”