Abuja – As results of the presidential and National Assembly elections trickle in, the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room has thumbed down the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over several observed infractions and lapses in the conduct of the election. The Situation Room, which is a coalition of over 70 CSOs working in support of credible and transparent elections in Nigeria, described last Saturday’s election as “a step back from the 2015 general election”. The CSOs noted that the general conduct of the 2019 election has detracted from the quantum leap made by the election umpire in 2015, acclaimed by many as a landmark achievement. They equally observed that despite the postponement of the elections penultimate Saturday, the process again suffered logistics problems in many states, warranting delay of polls in majority of polling units across the country. They also lamented widespread violence, security lapses resulting to self-help and noted widespread cases of compromised INEC officials as well as partisan security operatives. They particularly noted that the logistics problem was more pronounced in the South-East and South-South geopolitical zones. “In addition to these, Situation Room received reports from Nasarawa, Rivers, Oyo and Anambra states of incomplete election materials.” In its third comment on the election signed by convener of the Civil Society Situation Room, Clement Nwankwo, the group expressed sadness over the killings and widespread destruction of materials during the elections. “Situation Room notes with profound sadness, the election related violence that led to the death of at least 39 Nigerians over the last 48 hours of the elections: Borno State (4), Bayelsa State (4), Rivers State (16), Yobe State (2), Kogi State (2), Ebonyi (2), Lagos (1), Oyo (1), Delta (2), Zamfara (1), and Taraba State (4). In Lagos State, there were reports of disruption of voting by suspected political thugs who shot into the air in some places and set ballot boxes and papers on fire in others. In the Okota, Isolo and Oshodi suburbs of Lagos, there were reports of violence, some caused by non-arrival of INEC officials and materials. “Situation Room reiterates that no election in Nigeria should cost the life of any citizen and condemns in the strongest of terms the lack of empathy, concern and sensitivity by the political class regarding these events. These recorded deaths follow a trend of serious electoral violence since the beginning of campaigns in October 2018. As at February 23, 2019, Situation Room has documented more than 260 political motivated deaths. “From reports received by Situation Room, it appears that the deployment of security officers in some instances did not take into consideration areas that required more security deployment. According to reports by CLEEN Foundation, there was multi-agency deployment of security personnel, noting 39% of polling units had three or more security personnel. Reports were also received that 27% of the polling units were under-policed. Reports also largely showed that security personnel conducted themselves professionally, however, there are cases of police overreaching in Imo, Abia and Rivers states where an INEC official was shot by security agents. CLEEN Foundation documents that 12% of the polling units observed security officers were somewhat partisan. “Despite the police stated preparedness with deployment and adequacy of security, there were shortfalls and gaps, with attendant implications for election security. For instance, there was disruption of polls in Abia, Lagos, Rivers, Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom and Ebonyi states, amongst others. In Okota, Lagos State, voters were chased away and ballot boxes destroyed. In Oriade, Osun State, ballot papers and boxes were destroyed at the NSC office. “The wholesale involvement of the army against the provision of the Electoral Act was also condemned. “Armed Forces only for the purpose of securing the distribution and delivery of election materials and protection of election officials.” The group sought an independent inquiry to determine the poor management of the electoral process. Specifically, “the underlining causes for logistics lapses with a view to itemising operational deficiency that led to the initial postponement of elections on February 16 and logistical challenges with the rescheduled elections on February 23, 2019. “In addition to this, INEC is expected to inquire into the activities of its staff with respect to late arrivals to polling station; lack of understanding of processes by ad hoc staff; and the allegations of collusion between staff and politicians. The failure of the smart card readers in identified polling units should be interrogated with a special audit of the results of polling units where 5% card reader incidence failure was recorded. “INEC and security agencies to ensure accountability for acts inimical to the integrity and credibility of the polls especially individuals complicit in the burning of INEC offices, election materials, snatching of ballot boxes, among others.”