Sulaiman Fasasi and Samuel Ogidan Abeokuta / Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress in this week’s presidential election, was on Monday smuggled out of Moshood Abiola International Stadium in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, venue of the party’s presidential rally when violence erupted. Although the atmosphere had been tensed as early as when the venue was opened to supporters but security operatives drafted to the venue were able to prevent the breakdown of law and order. Trouble started when the Director General of the Buhari/Osinbajo campaign organisation, Rotimi Amaechi, appealed to party faithful to vote for the party across board. Some of the angry supporters shouted at him, chanting ‘no’, ‘no’ while others were chorused ‘Ole’, ‘Ole’ meaning, ‘thief’, ‘thief’. It would be recalled that following the controversial outcome of the primaries of APC in the state, Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s supporters moved to the Allied People’s Movement (APC). His preferred candidate, Abiodun Akinlade, was offered the governorship ticket of APM while many other supporters including members of the state executive council joined the party. Amosun had openly declared support for Akinlade’s APM while vowing to work against the candidature of Dapo Abiodun, APC’s governorship candidate. Supporters of APM, the party that has also endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari as its candidate, were also at the stadium in their numbers. While speaking at the event, Amosun appealed with his supporters to vote massively for Buhari on February 16, adding that when it is the turn of the governorship candidate they know what to do. He appealed to the supporters of APM to respect the president, saying all of them are members of APC. According to him, the APM was a child of necessity, assuring the president never to lose sleep on the situation in Ogun State. Tension further rose when the former governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola replied Amosun, saying people carrying the flag of another party are hypocrites. Aregbesola said, “We are happy to be here but we are not happy that many members of our party are hypocrites, any person carrying the flag of another party is a hypocrite. We are APC, but many people are hypocrites here. We must ensure both March and February elections, we vote APC.” Amosun immediately rose from his seat and made for where Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was seated discussing with him furiously. Another drama immediately ensued as the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, was booed and stoned as the angry party members chorused, ‘thief’, ‘thief’, ‘thief’ etc. Oshiomhole was prevented from furthering his speech as protest songs and slogans rented the air. He said, “The primary purpose for today is to solicit support for our candidate President Muhammadu Buhari and to also present flag to APC governorship candidate in the state, Prince Dapo Abiodun.” He was immediately cut short as stones started raining on the podium where he was making his speech. It took the intervention of operatives of Department of State Services (DSS) to shield him. The National Leader of the party and former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, who was visibly angry at the turn of events threw away an APC flag beside him and was seen rushing to where the president was seated to discuss with him. Tinubu was also seen leaving the stage in annoyance while the president was delivering his very short message to the people of the state. At this time, the vice president was seen declining to address the angry crowd but was prevailed upon by both Amosun and Amaechi who rushed to his seat to appeal to him. He said, “There are three things the president wants to do in this next level; employment for the youths, good power supply and giving loans to traders and small scale businesses. “These are the things we would focus on after our re-election. Let’s vote for Buhari who is a trustworthy person, even his enemies know that, we are asking you to re-elect Buhari so that he can continue with what he is doing.” President Muhammadu Buhari, in his speech, lifted the spirit of the protesters when he said people should vote for any candidate of their choice regardless of party affiliation. Buhari, who listed some of his achievements in office, said he has no issue with faithful voting for the candidate of their choice in the governorship elections, adding that it is their choice that nobody can take away from them. He said, “I will like to remind you in 2015 our party, the All Progressives Congress, made different promises on security, economy and fighting corruption. Where ever I go, I try to update Nigerians on our performance for the past three and half years. The people of the North Eastern Nigeria are the one mostly affected then by insecurity. “Boko Haram has virtually degraded the whole region, the problem in the North West and North Central is about the …farmers which is under control. “On the economy we are lucky, the last three seasons, there were lots of rain which the government has tried to provide fertiliser and reduce the price it used to be. “We have now achieved food security. Lagos, Ogun, Kebbi, Ebonyi, Jigawa are among the states that are doing well in producing rice, we are virtually self-sufficient in rice. “When we talk about infrastructure, we are building road, rails and power, you will be the witnesses by the time we complete the next four years. “I advise you to practice your civic right come next Saturday, and on the 2nd of March to choose whoever you like across the parties. “This is your right so there is no problem about it, I have no problem about it, and you shouldn’t have problems about it.” The supporters started hailing the president until he raised the hand of Abiodun who is the candidate of the party. The angry supporters started throwing stones at Abiodun who was right beside the president. Amosun immediately took the microphone, saying, “I plead with you in the name of God, you are playing into their hands already. This is what they want to happen (violence). I beg you in the name of God, our father (Buhari) is here. Please, don’t disgrace me here. “I beg you in the name of God. We have laboured this hard. I beg, I beg you, I beg you. God will not destroy your work. I appeal to all of you, we have to swallow our pride. We have to subdue our anger. We must not act according to our anger.” Security operatives had to shield the president as the programme ended abruptly. Pelting, Jeering, Signs Of Buhari’s Rejection— PDP Meanwhile, the public pelting and jeering of President Muhammadu Buhari during the APC presidential campaign rally in Abeokuta, Ogun State, has been described by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as a sign of rejection by Nigerians. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that the pelting was a direct response by Nigerians to Buhari’s four years misrule as depicted in the increase in poverty, corruption, divisiveness, and bloodletting in the country. Ologbondiyan said: “It is instructive to note that Mr. President was pelted in Abeokuta barely 24 hours after his Zamfara State rally on Sunday where he attempted to incite Nigerians to join the APC in their planned resort to violence to derail the 2019 general election, having realized that they stand no chance of winning the election. “The people of Ogun state and, indeed, the South West have shown that they are in direct alignment with other states and geo-political zones of our country in rejecting President Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, whose administration has foisted so much injustice and brought unprecedented pain and anguish to Nigerians.” The party, which said that Nigerians could not be bought with money, added that Mr. President needed no further signal to show him that the people had completely rejected him. “Mr. President can now see that Nigerians cannot be bought with N10,000 as he was made to believe by Prof. Osinbajo and members of the cabal in his Presidency. “After the unpalatable encounters in all his rallies, Mr. President needs no further signal to show him that the people have completely rejected him, despite his false performance indices. “Nigerians are determined to deal him a crushing defeat on February 16 by voting en masse for the people’s candidate, Atiku Abubakar, as the next President of our country,” the party said. The PDP urged President Buhari and the APC to read the handwriting on the wall and get ready to accept his inevitable defeat so that Nigerians could have a breath of fresh air under the leadership of Atiku Abubakar, whose campaign had continued to receive rousing reception in all parts of the country.