LAGOS – Akinwunmi Ambode, the Lagos State governor, can now sleep with his two eyes closed. This is because the raging impeachment plot against him by members of the Lagos State House of Assembly has been aborted. The All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership having intervened in the impasse between the governor and the lawmakers has put the matter to rest. Thus, Ambode can now heave a sigh of relief that his single term will no longer be cut short at the twilight of his administration. The impeachment threat was coming few weeks to the general elections, a development which observers feared could adversely affect the party’s fortunes not only in the February 16 presidential election, but also the March 2 governorship election, thereby risking the defeat of both President Muhammadu Buhari and the governorship elections in the state. The APC leadership would not like to lose the state to the opposition, having held tight to Lagos for about 29 years. The feared Ambode’s impeachment threat, if carried out, could lead to a split in the party, that might trigger a protest vote that would have a ripple effect on the general elections. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the APC National Leader,  announced the cheery development on Sunday after a meeting with the party’s leadership with the governor and leaders of the House of Assembly. For over one week, the newsvave had been rife with stories of the impeachment plot against Ambode. Several civil society groups also intervened, calling on the lawmakers to sheathe their sword as they could not see any offence the governor committed that could warrant such impunities action against him. Tinubu, who spoke after the peace meeting held at the Lagos House, Marina, said it was gratifying to note that the conflict between the governor and members of the state House of Assembly had been amicably settled. Tinubu said the executive and the legislative arms of government had resolved to work together in the interest of the state. He said: “We held a meeting on behalf of Lagos, the entire Lagosians, our party – APC leadership. In the last one week, there has been noise about the conflict between the executive and the State Assembly. It is of great concern to all of us and particularly what Lagos represents across the country. “We have been able to look into the source of various conflicts, which is not uncommon in politics; what is the genesis of those problems? We are one big family and as a big family, you will have some rumples, you will have some disagreements. “As leaders of the party, we have looked into that. We have looked into areas where we have to compromise, discuss and build the institutions, encourage the institutions to really do what is right. “We have resolved there is no question of impeachment in Lagos State. Let the two arms of government communicate and continue to respect one another and build consensus and understanding. “That is all about politics. Conflict and conflict resolution mechanism is inbuilt in any political system unless leaders are lacking in their responsibilities.” He thanked the governor, his deputy, Dr Idiat Adebule, and the leadership of the House for agreeing to the peaceful resolution of the conflict, saying it was evident that consequences of allowing such conflict to fester would have been dire, not just for the state, but the entire country. “We thank the Speaker and the entire members of the House of Assembly leadership. We thank the governor and the deputy governor, who had demonstrated firm respect for the party leadership in Lagos State. “You know, when Lagos sneezes, the rest of the political equation catches cold, and we are very happy that we are able to resolve amicably. The Deputy Speaker is also here and all of them put together, we are assured that things will start to run smoothly in Lagos, both the House and the government.” Prince Tajudeen Olusi, a party chieftain, who also attended the meeting, corroborated Tinubu’s position, and expressed optimism that the House would soon meet to resolve other grey areas. “The National Leader (Tinubu) has spoken and mine is just to confirm the decision. Conflict resolution is an essential ingredient of management. “We have looked into the problem and the party has directed the two arms of government – the executive and the legislature – to work together, and very soon, the House will meet and resolve all grey areas,” Olusi said. The meeting was attended by both the executive and legislative arms, represented by Ambode, the Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule; Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Mudashiru Obasa; Deputy Speaker, Wasiu Eshinlokun; Majority Leader, Sinai Agunbiade; Chief Whip, Rotimi Abiru, among other principal officers of the Assembly. Also in attendance were members of the Governors’ Advisory Council (GAC), the highest decision making organ of the party in Lagos; the APC governorship candidate in the state, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and his deputy, Dr Femi Hamzat, among others. Ambode’s travail started when the party’s leadership refused to give him an automatic return ticket for the state’s governorship position. He got a shocker when he lost the ticket to Babajide Olushola Sonwo-Olu, the party leaders’ preferred candidate. The leaders, backed Sanwo-Olu, the 53-year-old former Chairman of the Lagos State Property Development Commission (LSDPC) and two-time commissioner, instead of Ambode, who many believed was a performer. With the soured relationship between the party’s leadership, including the lawmakers, it was not surprising when Ambode transmitted the 2019 Appropriation Bill (budget) to the House of Assembly at the twilight of 2018, instead of personally presenting it to the legislature, which has been the normal procedure and convention in Lagos. Thus, a ground had been prepared for the impeachment threat of the governor by the state’s legislature, who had insisted that he should physically present the state’s budget before the House. The lawmakers accused him of having started to spend from a budget that had neither been laid before the House of approved as stipulated by the law. Ambode, however, insisted that the law permitted him to spend from the unapproved budget up to 50 percent of the previous year in the first six months. However, observers maintain that the impeachment threat against Ambode was because he allegedly refused to sponsor Sanwo-Olu’s campaigns from the state’s coffers. It was also alleged that the lawmakers wanted to get at the governor, who they claimed cared less about their ‘welfare’ since he lost the primaries. Matters got to a head when 28 out of the 34 members of the Lagos House of Assembly called for Ambode’s impeachment, while six others demanded for his resignation. But, during a debate on the issue, the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, advised his colleagues that Ambode should be given an opportunity to explain his actions, while the House asked him to appear before the lawmakers. Observer, who had been following the development, wondered if the move by the state House of Assembly to impeach Ambode was necessary since he had barely four months to go, having ruled the state in a way many considered creditable. After the primaries, Olawale Oluwo, the state’s Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, quit Ambode’s cabinet. He also dumped the APC and embraced PDP, the main opposition party. In his resignation letter, he blamed the APC controversial gubernatorial primary as his reason of leaving the party. In a twitter post, Oluwo said he had joined the campaign team of Jimi Agbaje, the PDP gubernatorial candidate who he described as his long-time friend. However, analysts believe that the crux of the matter was Ambode’s alleged refusal to fund Sanwo-Olu’s campaign, while he was said to be secretly supporting Agbaje, an allegation which the PDP candidate had denied.