With the 2019 general elections kick-starting with the presidential poll next Saturday, February 16, there is widespread anxiety that the elections may turn violent. Apart from the threat of insurgents, there is the fear that thugs may hijack the elections in some parts of the country considered to be flash points. This became so obvious when people suspected to political thugs caused mayhem at the flag-off of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship campaign in Lagos recently. In Owerri, Imo State, there were shootings at a rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which was expected to have been attended by President MUhammadu Buhari. There were also pockets of attacks in parts of the country during rallies, while party chieftains reportedly lost their lives, or attacked either during the rallies, on their way to attend party functions or even abducted from their homes. Also, some groups, at one time or the other, issued threats due to some grievances. All these raise the question of insecurity during the general elections, even as the Police authorities have continued to maintain that they were ready for any eventuality during and after the elections. Monday Agbonika, the Area Commander of the Nigeria Police, Ayetoro, Imeko/Afon Area Command in Ogun State, for instance, warned youths in the state to desist from any violent act that could affect the smooth conduct of the forth coming elections in the country. Agbonika, who gave the warning while speaking with the media, described the general elections as a serious business, advising youths not to allow themselves to be used by any politician as thugs before, during and after the elections, adding that anybody who foment trouble would be seriously dealt with. According him, “youths should not allow themselves to be used as thugs during the elections. I want the youths to know that election is a serious business and anything that they do in contrary to the rules of the elections will attract serious sanctions from the government. “Anybody found with a weapon will be treated like a criminal, no matter the political party he or she may belong. Anybody that is arrested before or during the election will be treated as a threat to the elections and such a person will be doing his or her own election in the prison.” Security Personnel Should Work Hard, Guarantee People’s Safety – Community Leader Chief Emma Onyeukwu, Awka, Anambra State-based community leader, said security personnel should work hard to guarantee the security of the elections. He, however, expressed worry over the threat by Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to disrupt the elections. He said: “People in the South East must advise our children who promote the ideals of IPOB, who are talking about sit-at-home, since that will increase security tension in this part of the country. “We must join others because the most painful thing is that even if it is only 10 persons that will vote, it will be used to determine the fate of 200 million people. “This is not the first time IPOB is issuing a similar threat. During the Anambra State governorship election, a similar threat was issued and Chief Willie Obiano still won. “Our leaders should speak out and condemn such calls so that they will not demoralise lily-livered people. Generally, the South East is peaceful and we are hopeful it will be so till the end of the election in March.” Security Agencies Should Walk The Talk – NCP Scribe Chief Clifford Ubochi Anamkuta is the Secretary National Conscience Party (NCP), Owerri West, Imo State. He said: “Whether the security agencies are prepared for the election or not is just a matter of conjecture. They will claim to be prepared for it as they did in the past, but to me, seeing is believing.” It Will Be Difficult For Security Agencies To Prevent Violence – CDHR Comrade Prince Kehinde Taiga, Delta State Chairman of Committee For The Defense of Human Right (CDHR), has stated that it would take a lot of organisation by security agencies to prevent violence in the coming 2019 elections. He emphasised that the outcome of the elections would depend on the mode of operation of security agencies, adding that despite the warning of police against violence during elections, some people would still come out to show misconduct. While warning that security agencies must be 95 per cent ready before the elections, he posited that only those who rig elections fear elections because they know they are powerless without the mechanism of rigging. While responding to the allegations from several quarters on the intentions of the President to rig the elections, he stated that such actions would negate the promise of the President to Nigeria, as he has promised free and fair elections. He cited a statement credited to some party leaders during campaigns that there would be war if the elections are rigged as an indictment on the peace of the country. He recommended that Nigerians should vote their mind and put aside sentiments, and eschew violence Security Agencies Should Not Compromise – Lawyer Taiwo Adelugba, Osogbo-based legal practitioner, said: “Security agencies are not worthy to rely upon for the success of election. It is rather unfortunate that officers look at election time as period to make money, especially from politicians who intend to manipulate or rig the poll.” He said that the security agencies in the country are not better prepared than before, but would be out for how they would enrich themselves during the elections. He lamented that security agencies connive with politicians and INEC officials to compromise and rig elections. He stressed that if the security agencies in the country had been upright in their duties , it would be very difficult to rig elections in this country. His words: “How do you want to rig an election in advanced countries? It is very rare and virtually impossible because the security agencies in those places don’t compromise. But, here in Nigeria, the security agencies always compromise because of lack of integrity and commitment on their part.” Security Agencies Are Ready For Elections – Activist Comrade Idugboe Omoreghan, a member of Civil Society Organisations (CSO),said: “I believe the security agencies are ready for the election because I heard the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone 5 on television the other day, warning his officers and men to avoid acts capable of undermining the nation’s peaceful electoral process but to be part of history of the survival of the nation’s democracy. “He also asked them to do what is right so that they would be counted in the right part of history and not on the bad part. “I also learnt that the security agencies have been organising series of training for their officers and men in preparation for the elections because they are aware of the responsibility vested on them as law enforcement agency to assist the Independent National Electoral Commissi (INEC) on to bring about a peaceful election in the country. “With that, I think they are ready for the election and I should advise the government to ensure that the security agents, especially the police, are well equipped because there are two leading agencies that are conducting the elections, the police and the INEC. “I will want to advise the security agents to be apolitical by not allowing themselves to be used by politicians or the powers-that-be to do shoddy jobs during the elections so that this year’s polls could be the best ever conducted in this country.”