The Confederation of African Football has approved a request by the Nigeria Football Federation for the Flying Eagles to wear black armbands in their semi final clash with Mali in the Africa U-20 Cup of Nations in Niger Republic, in honour of departed former NFF Secretary General and Member of Board, Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi. Chief Ogunjobi, also the Chairman of Osun State Football Association, passed away on Monday morning at the University College Hospital, Ibadan after a brief illness. He was also a former Nigeria international. “We have received the go-ahead from CAF that the Flying Eagles can use the black armbands. It is the least honour that we can accord such an accomplished man who was a football person through and through,” Bola Oyeyode, NFF’s Director of Competitions, told thenff.com. To reach the semis, the sevdn-time champions topped Group A that had host nation Niger Republic, South Africa and Burundi, finishing with seven points, defeating Burundi and Niger Republic, while drawing with South Africa. On the other hand, Mali finished second in Group B with six points after victories over Burkina Faso and Ghana, and defeat by Senegal. Head Coach Paul Aigbogun said on Tuesday that, having met the first target of a FIFA World Cup ticket, his boys will play the remaining matches without any pressure and would turn out to be much better. Both teams know a little of each other. At the WAFU U20 Cup Tournament in Lome, Togo in December 2018, Mali led by a lone goal in one of the semi final matches until the 82nd minute, before defender Valentine Ozornwafor brought Nigeria level, and the Flying Eagles went ahead to win on penalty shoot –out. Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser Gernot Rohr, who is with the Flying Eagles in Niamey, told thenff.com: “It is going to be an interesting game because the Malians are difficult to play. They are strong and run a lot. But Nigeria I see Nigeria throwing everything into the fray and doing everything to curtail the Malians by playing a strong game and showing the passion to reach the final.” The second semi final, also set for the Stade General Seyni Kountche, will see Group B winners Senegal tackle South Africa. The Lionceau du Teranga won all their matches in the group phase, scooping the maximum nine points, and would reach their third consecutive final of the Africa U20 Cup of Nations if they defeat the Amajita. They were in the final of the 2015 championship that they hosted, losing to Nigeria, and also lost in the final of the 2017 competition to host nation Zambia. Incidentally, South Africa were also the semi final victims of Senegal in the 2017 edition in Zambia.