P/Harcourt – Elano group of companies has announced plan to partner with foreign investors in the United States of America (USA) and the united kingdom to build  a N36 billion Naira world class hospital in Eleme in conformity with its core goal of developing the area and providing quality healthcare service for the people. Chief Gomba Okanje, Chairman, Elano Board of Directors, in his speech shortly after deliberations with the foreign partners led by Engr. Chief Adolf Neumann , stated that Elano Investments Limited would be disposed and open to foreign partnership to deliver the world-wide development project for the benefit of the people. He thanked the group for the decision to site the proposed worldwide hospital project in Eleme, adding that the idea of a centre for it would no doubt, drive development in the area hosting over two hundred multinational companies, but with poor health facilities. Okanje, however, used the opportunity to highlight Elano’s commitment to human capacity building, infrastructural development and healthcare programme for improved living standard of the people of Eleme, noting that, pursuant to its core mandate of driving development in the host communities of Indorama ECPL in Eleme Local Government Area at large, Elano went into partnership with the university  of port Harcourt, Rivers state University, maritime academy of Nigeria,  oron in Akwa Ibom State, pro health HMO and other organisations to implement its people-oriented programmes and projects. Chief OKanje said Elano had set up a committee and nominated Hon. Fineman Olungwe and Hon. Onorwi Ngofa aspart to work with Chief Engr. Adolf Neimann and his team to fasttrack the hospital project. Earlier, leader of the delegation, Chief Engr. Adolf Naumann of the Arlington Assemblies of God Church, Virginia USA, said the resolve to site a world class hospital in Eleme was borne out of their personal experience from previous visit the area, saying that the project upon completion would serve as a centre medical tourism in Africa. Chief Adolf Naumann, a retired US marine said, having gone through Elano’s track record in the area of educational empowerment, health insurance schemes and youth development programmes, he and his group were convinced that the purpose of the partnership would be achieved. Neumann assured the Elano Board that their team members and other partners in the United States of America had opened discussions with the Government of the United Kingdom to ensure Nigeria benefits from its ongoing low interest investments opportunities in the Brexit Process. In his speech, Chief Joe Obarichinwi, the president of Ofalarrun Eleme USA Inc., who was part of the visiting team thanked the management of Elano Investment Limited for Supporting on two occasions with funds for the clearing of the 40ft container load of medical equipment and relief materials shipped in from the united kingdom by Ofalarun Eleme USA for delivery at the Nchia General Hospital, Ogale Eleme and for Ekporo people who have been displaced from their ancestral homes over five years. On his part, Israel Abbey , the president General of O-e’la Obor Eleme, the apex socio-cultural organisation of Eleme people, Chief (Elder) called on the people of Eleme to unite and join force and resources towards the development and progress of Eleme Local Government Area. He commended the Elano Group for leading the path of development of Eleme land and also for equipping the association’s office at Eleme Civic Centre, Ogale with state of the art furniture. The delegation to was led by Elder John /co-coordinator of the Eleme USA Home committee. Other members of the delegation were Mrs. Neilly Adolf Neumann Chief and Mrs. Benjamin Osaro-Olai and Chief Obarichiwi.