“The best lack all convictions, while the worst are full of passionate intensity” -W.B YEATS The German coach of the Super Eagles recently raised alarm over his injured players also lamenting over the last qualifying match with Seychelles, on how to win the match convincingly even though, the Eagles had qualified for the 2019 AFCON tourney in Egypt. Rohr’s fears is not only hinged on the said injured players but the issue of Pride, Complacency and underrating the minnow country Seychelles, which match comes up in couple of days. Gernot Rohr has expressed his fears in so many areas, especially going into the AFCON proper without the mindset of a winning side. He had said that the Eagles must beat Seychelles convincingly so that the team could approach the AFCON tournament with a conquering team spirit. He noted that Ahmed Musa is already out as a result of injury and that Tyronne Ebuehi was yet to recover, saying it is dangerous signal towards the team’s success with Seychelles. While Rohr argued that in the forthcoming match, there was nothing actually at stake in terms of getting points as the Eagles had already berthed their presence in Egypt as one of the West African teams in the Championship. The Eagles are billed to play the Pharaohs of Egypt on a friendly match after the Seychelles encounter, hence the fears of the Eagles manager that his team should not be found wanting with Seychelles before meeting the Egyptians! The Eagles coach had openly lamented that the match with Seychelles won’t be easy! You may ask why Rohr is this lamenting over his team who had qualified for the 2019 Nation’s cup. Methinks, the German trainer had depended so much on some particular players in the team, meaning come rain or shine, they are his dependables. Before now, Rohr has been hugely criticised for not concentrating on the local league in some cases where he could get some local professionals to beef up his team and not placing his one hundred percent hope on the foreign players who had formed the nucleus of his team. Rohr has defiantly refused to beam his search light on the Nigerian Professional Football league, where he could have got the likes of “Ahmed Musa” and the “Tyronne Ebuehi” of this world if he had set his eyes on ground pragmatically to actually fish out some good players in the local league. This writer also believes that Rohr’s contract has been renewed, so what is the cause for apprehension over his performance with Seychelles and on how the Eagles will perform in the Nations CAF tourney in 2019. I am also of the opinion that what Rohr had neglected since his first contract is already becoming his dragon fighting him! I have gone through most of the countries’ national teams across Africa nay the world; I have not seen anywhere coaches play entirely foreign based professionals. There is always a flavour of the foreigners and the local bred, who, in most cases, have outshined their foreign counterparts in some or most difficult matches ever played in various championships organised by CAF and FIFA! The question of Victor Moses early retirement from the Eagles is still a source of worry for the German trainer and perhaps, who knows what will be the state of the Eagles Captain, Mikel Obi, who constitute the major surety of Rohr’s success. May God help Rohr in this regard! Good Morning.