Musa Bah Kanawa is the governorship candidate of the Young Democratic Party (YDP) in Taraba State for the forthcoming governorship elections. In this interview with journalists, he spoke on his plans for the people of the state if elected. AFIS KAREEM brings the excerpts: What motivates you to join Taraba State governorship race? I am inspired by the need to save my people from avoidable hardships they have been subjected to over the years. To achieve this, I intend to drive governance in a manner that will give sense of belonging to all and lead to elevation of standard of living generally in Taraba state. This is the main factor motivating my interest in joining the governorship race. There are allegations or rumours making the rounds that you have stepped down for this or the other contestant. What is the truth of the matter, are you still in the race? I have also stumbled on such rumours and have even been approached with such overtures a couple of times, which I consider part of normal political process whereby people exercise their freedom of expressions. However, the truth remains that I have never contemplated, talk less of withdrawing for another candidate. I am in the race hoping  to finish credibly and successfully, by the grace of Almighty God. Why do you think you’re the best candidate at this particular point in time, among all other candidates contesting for governorship in Taraba state? A cursory look at most of the other leading aspirants, their strategies and the usual unfortunate resultant devastating outcomes, quickly reminds one of the dark olden days when politics was considered a do or die affair. In Taraba today, we are presented with the semblance of wars where families are normally left to cater for their wounded and mourn the dead ones consequential to political activities. My burning desire for a paradigm shift in the way things are done and determination to ensure good governance, therefore makes me the best alternative to end the vicious circle bedeviling the state since inception of the present democracy. So, what exactly are you offering the people of Taraba state? All along, Taraba state has being operating devoid of conducive environment for people to meaningfully participate in their socio-economic activities. We are usually offered barrages of lip service on even critical issues calling for decisive actions, thus leaving people with burning desire for development that is never there. At a time of intense ethno-religious tensions such as this, it becomes extremely difficult to talk of meaningful development. Our government will therefore start tackling under-development by demonstrating sincere commitment to investment in the creation of enabling environment for our people to develop trust amongst themselves and have faith in government. The prevailing atmosphere of excessive mutual distrust amongst the people and against the government, are a serious impediment towards progress. One of our major tasks is to restore desirable confidence for accelerated progress of our people and the state by ‘walking the talk’. This is because we believe that unless people are stimulated to unleash their potentialities, the clamour for development would remain an unrealisable dream. We intend to run the government of Taraba state from four-point agenda, going by our Manifesto cascaded from the ideals of our great political party, YDP. First, we have what is tagged ‘Respect for Diversity and Inclusion.’ Here we have the various communities in the state in mind. Taraba state happens to be a multi-ethnic society with no fewer than 80 different ethnic groups. Unfortunately, there are occasions the politicians mischievously use this against the very people they are intended to lead. Our government will encourage respect for our differences by the people and the government, ensuring that no one is ever denied whatever he deserves from the government on the basis of ethnicity. There is also the issue of religion and this, like the ethnicity is being used at will to divide the people  and create chaos. So many lives and properties have been and still being lost to ethno-religious crises in the state. As a government, we intend to create enabling environment by actually committing to investment in tackling crisis arising between people based on religions, tribalism or sectionalism. That is our topmost priority. The next point relates to the economy of the state. It may not be out of place to believe that abject poverty can render someone a ready tool in the hands of mischief makers. With that in mind, the incessant crises rocking the state might not, to some extent, be unconnected with the deplorable poverty level of our people. Our vision is to re-design and maintain functional roadmaps towards boosting cottage industries, agro-economy, entrepreneurship, youth development and tourism, to create that enabling environment for business development and improved standard of living. We already have a lot of traditional economic practices that have been working; all we need is to enhance these for the betterment of life of the people. For these reasons, we have coined our second cardinal point ‘Community-Based, Socio-Economic and Industrial Development’. We call it community-based to avoid formulation of blanket economic policy for the entire state; each segment of the state will be treated based on its peculiar economic potentialities believing that what may be suitable for a particular area, may not be going for another. Therefore, enablers would be channeled towards economic activities with higher viability identified in each community, so that people living and engaged in these activities would have the fullest benefit of realising their optimal productivity. The third point relates to our graviest set-back as a state, lack of facilities and infrastructures. To the best of my knowledge, Taraba is the least developed of all states in the federation in terms of facilities and infrastructures. It is in this state you still find a number of local government headquarters without even common basic necessity such as link roads 20 years  since inception of the existing democratic dispensation. We tag this cardinal point, ‘Facilities and Infrastructural Development’. Looking at the extent of backwardness in Taraba state as regards infrastructures, our government would first and foremost engage consultants and other experts that would develop comprehensive blueprint articulating the condition and needs of each locality constituting the state; highlighting their priorities to guide government in the siting and execution of projects to meet these needs. For example, we will take each local government on the scale of priority assigned to it by these experts and our government will address them starting from topmost priority to the least, contingent upon availability of funds and other resources needed. We are doing this because we are sure not all the local governments have same priorities in terms of hierarchy of needs. For instance, if you take Karim Lamido local government, their topmost priority need may be road network; so our government will be treating the issue of road development in that local government area as topmost priority while provision of portable water may occupy topmost priority for Zing local government area and so on. However, that does not mean we are neglecting other essential needs that ought to run concurrently with meeting the topmost priority needs-I mean education, health and agriculture. The fourth and last point in our manifesto is known as ‘Security and Peaceful Coexistence’. This is so designed to create enabling environment for actualisation of the first three points. There is no way we expect respect for our diversities or any form of meaningful development, for that matter, in the absence of security and peace. It is designed for purpose of emphasis because we want to make sure that key issues of diversity coloration being used to our detriment are properly tackled. Over time, I over-heard governments paying lip service to the need for security and peaceful coexistence without tangible enabler being provided to encourage same.