Uyo – Senator Godswill Akpabio, former Senate minority leader and former governor of Akwa Ibom State, has been defeated in the senatorial election held last Saturday. He polled a total of 67, 487 votes against his opponent, Chris Ekpenyong, former deputy governor of the PDP who scored 136, 373 votes. Though Akpabio won in his local government area, he lost in eight out of the 10 local government areas of the senatorial district. The final result, gotten from the number of accredited voters after over 10 hours of verification from the card reader, ran in sharp contrast with accredited voters of 105,555 valid votes earlier presented by the APC to INEC as Essien Udim result. The INEC verification revealed that APC got 7,766 votes while PDP got 5,987 out of the 14,467 voters accredited in Essien Udim Local Government Area. The decision to subject the Essien Udim result to card reader verification came due to complaints over snatching of ballot boxes and effort to return such votes to INEC in the area by the APC. Over 24 hours after winners in other two senatorial districts had been released, the Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District result was still left hanging. In other senatorial contests, Mrs. Akon Eyakenyi of Eket Senatorial District polled a total of 122, 412 for the PDP against Senator Nelson Effiong of the APC with 44,053 while the PDP also swept the polls in Uyo Senatorial District as Bassey Albert Akpan polled a total of 147,731 votes to defeat Bassey Etim of the APC, who got 60,930 votes. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Akwa Ibom State, Mike Igini, shortly after the verification at INEC office, Uyo, insisted that the result must be taken back to Ikot Ekpene INEC office for announcement in line with the law. Confirming the speculated pressure on him to accept the doctored report from Essien Udim, he said: “They have intimidated me enough, they even held some of the staff hostage. “Well, thank God they are here and safe. Let me say this here and now, that all the votes tampered with by anyone will be cancelled. “Someone tampered with the result of Essien Udim LGA, no one was announced the winner but following our previous report, the PDP candidate (Chris Ekpenyong) was leading in 8 LGAs out of the 10 LGAs that made up the Senatorial District while the APC candidate (Godswill Akpabio) was leading in only 1 LGA. “When once we are done with the Essien Udim LGA result, INEC will announce the will of the people.” It would be recalled that Igini, while addressing the press on the conduct of the presidential and National Assembly elections in Akwa Ibom on Saturday had vowed that the commission would cancel polls in units where ballot boxes were snatched in the state. “What I can tell you emphatically is that there is no election where there is snatching of ballot papers or result sheets are taken to private homes or somewhere to thumb print. “We will not accept it. Those things are not going to work here and we are not going to accept it. Those areas will stand as cancelled and we will take them as non-events,” Igini had said.