Last Monday, President Muhammadu Buhari stirred the hornet nest over the 2019 general elections that started on Saturday. During the All Progressives Congress (APC) national caucus meeting in Abuja, Buhari said that anyone involved in ballot box snatching during the general elections would be doing so at the peril of his or her own life. As he put it, anybody who gets directly or indirectly involved in the snatching of ballot boxes during the 2019 general elections does so “at the expense of his own life.” Emphasising his emphasis on death, Buhari said those who influence ballot box snatching might be committing their “last unlawful action”. The APC national caucus meeting was called following the one-week postponement of the Presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled for February 16, 2019. The elections held yesterday, February 23. Buhari had said: “Anybody who decides to snatch ballot boxes or lead thugs to disturb, it may be that [this will be] the last unlawful action you will take. “I rarely give the military and the police the power to be ruthless. We are not going be blamed. But, we won’t rig election. I want Nigerians to be respected; let them vote whoever they want across the parties. I’m not afraid of it. “The whole 36 states in Nigeria, I went round. I think I have got enough support across the country to look after me. So I’m going to warn anybody who thinks he has enough influence in his locality to lead a body of thugs to snatch boxes or to disturb the voting system, he will do it at the expense of his own life.” Expectedly, Presidential Buhari’s statement attracted a lot of comments from a cross section of Nigerians, with members of the opposition taking him to the cleaners, both in social and traditional media. Thus, the question among Nigerians across the country is: Is President Buhari’s statement that ballot snatched will pay with their lives justifying extra judicial killings? Tinubu Defends Buhari Bola Tinubu, APC National Leader, in defending the President, said the statement was not an endorsement of extra-judicial killing. Tinubu described the President as a law-abiding leader who would never order the killing of his people. Buhari’s Threat Meant To Scare Away Voters – Sowore Omoyele Sowore, the presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) in his reaction, said Buhari’s threat to ballot box snatchers was aimed at scaring away voters on election day. Sowore said if Buhari was sincere about stopping electoral malpractice, he would have focused on the sponsors of ballot box snatchers and not the actors only. The activist turned politician said Buhari had shown that he was still a dictator as he made no mention of arresting and prosecuting ballot box snatchers, but went ahead to suggest killing. He said if the President was really serious about stopping electoral malpractice, he would have stopped his part from engaging in vote-buying. He said: “General Buhari is clearly still a military dictator at heart. Ballot box snatching is a terrible offence. But, how could anyone ask for an offender to be killed without recourse to the law? Are there no courts? Shouldn’t an offender be charged to court first?” Buhari Inciting Military, Police Against Nigerians – Secondus Prince Uche Secondus, the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said that President Buhari in his alleged desperation to cling on to power had given marching orders to the military and the police to help APC leaders to oppress voters. He said Buhari’s remarks amounted to what he called a declaration of war on the Nigerian voters and a direct incitement against them. Secondus said: “The President’s confirmation that he has directed the service chiefs to kill Nigerians is nothing but a pre-determined script hatched by the ruling party to create voter apathy and implement their result replacement plans using thugs protected by the military.” He expressed shock that a Commander-in-Chief who, he claimed, had been out of action in numerous security challenges in the country, particularly “needless killings in Benue, Plateau, Zamfara, etc, and whose regime has recorded unprecedented bloodletting in the country would suddenly wake up threatening voters with fire and brimstone.” He added: “In all democracies the world over, elections are civil matters that are usually handled by civil security like police and wondered why the involvement of our military in this matter when they have enough security challenges to tackle.” Buhari’s Statement, Most Callous Ever – CUPP The Coalition of United Political Parties  (CUPP), on its own, urged Nigerians and the international community to hold the President responsible for any loss of lives during the elections. It said the President’s statement was the most callous public statement ever made by a Nigerian President. Imo Ugochinyere, CUPP spokesman, asked all well-meaning Nigerians to condemn the President for the statement. He said: “The President was unambiguous in his call that citizens should be shot dead extra-judicially if they ever tried to snatch ballot boxes during the elections. “That is the most callous public statement ever by a Nigerian President. It must be condemned by all well-meaning citizens and the international community. “President Buhari must be held personally responsible for the loss of any lives due to the instructions he has given to the security forces.” It’s A Call For Extrajudicial Killings – Dogara Yakubu Dogara, Speaker, House of Representatives,  described Buhari’s order as a call for extra-judicial killings. Dogara said: “The President said, ‘anybody who decides to snatch boxes or lead thugs to disturb the elections, maybe that would be the last unlawful action you would take. I have given the military and police the order to be ruthless. I am going to warn anybody who thinks he would lead a body of thugs in his locality to snatch boxes or to disturb the voting system; he would do it at the expense of his/her own life.’ “Mr Oshiomhole also claims that the PDP was given prior notice of the postponement of the elections. “In this context, we categorically deny these false claims and unnecessary blackmail and regard the President’s statement as a call for extrajudicial killings, considering the fact that there are adequate provisions in our laws to address electoral offences. “These statements clearly indicate that our democracy has become the victim of a full-blown dictatorship, when one considers that a democratically-elected President would give a directive that is in clear violation of the laws of the land which by his oath of office he is to defend and protect.” Dogara said in view of this statement made by the President, it was obvious that the military had been given a central role and co-opted into the conduct of the elections, despite the fact that they had no constitutional role in the electoral process. “In reality, we support a genuine and transparent probe into why the presidential and National Assembly elections could not hold. We also hope that the President’s inflammatory statement is not a threat aimed at intimidating the electoral commission,” he said. Buhari’s Order, Unconstitutional – CDHR, CD Two civil society organisations (CSOs), Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) and Campaign for Democracy (CD), berated the President for his statement, saying such a call was outside the provisions of the constitution and the electoral laws. Malachy Ugwummadu, CDHR National President, said: “The President is supposed to be the one who upholds the law and not to abrogate it. The call on the military and the police to shoot ballot boxes snatchers is not only unconstitutional but also usurping the roles of the judiciary which is the arm of government empowered to interpret the law. “Therefore, the President is wrong on that call and much as I sympathise with him on the tendencies of electoral offences during the elections, there are adequate provisions in the law to deal with them.” Usman Abdul, CD National President, said: “This is a civil rule, but under the military fangs. The call by the President on ballot boxes is uncalled for and unconstitutional and having an ex-military general as our leader should not derail our democracy.” Electoral Offenders Should Not Be Killed – Falana Mr Femi Falana (SAN), a human rights lawyer, urged security agents “not to risk their own lives by engaging in extrajudicial killing of ballot snatchers and other electoral offenders.” He said: “It may interest President Buhari to know that due to the culture of impunity in the land the hundreds of electoral offenders including sponsors and perpetrators of politically-motivated killings arrested by the police in the last six months have been let off the hook due to pressure from highly-connected criminally-minded members of the political class. “I am tempted to call on the Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar SAN, to advise the President to withdraw the illegal directive as soon as possible because similar illegal orders of two former Presidents of Nigeria had led to the brutal massacre of unarmed people in Odi, Bayelsa State (1999), Zaki Biam, Benue State (2001) and Gbaramotu, Delta State (2009).” Ballot Snatcher Deserves Death – Raji Mr. Ahmed Raji (SAN) said a ballot box snatcher deserved to be visited with the full weight of the law, adding that the President’s statement was a warning to whoever was planning to snatch ballot boxes on the day of election that such culprit could be shot by security agencies in the process of trying to effect an arrest. Raji said: “Anybody who is trying to rubbish our elections and therefore giving the country a bad name should be visited with the full wrath of the law.” Buhari’s Order Amounts To Jungle Justice – Orbih Chief Dan Osi Orbih, Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Edo State chapter, condemned the shoot-at-sight order given by Buhari to the Army to kill anyone involved in snatching of ballot boxes. He said: “The idea of calling out the military to shoot-at-sight on any ballot box snatcher is not the best way to go, it is undemocratic. Nobody is supporting ballot box snatching, but that does not warrant jungle justice on any offender. “Who are actually the people involving in ballot box snatching? It is the APC, because they are so desperate to remain in power at all cost. All that we are calling for is that Nigerians should be allowed to vote according to their conscience. “Electoral offenders should be tried under the laws of the land. I don’t subscribed to the notion that if a person commits an offence, he should be shot at sight. “All they need to do is to allow the process to be free, fair and credible, allow the people to exercise their franchise in the choice of the people that would lead them in this country. “Yes, a lot of people were disappointed about the president’s  pronouncement. It shows that he does not believe in the rule of law, which has been the problem of his administration in the past three and half years. “This is one of the reasons why he will be rejected at the polls because Nigerians will not afford to continue to tolerate him after May 29, 2019.   Nigerians are tired of dictatorship and he is already aware that he is going, no amount of rigging will save him, Atiku Abubakar is our next president and the Almighty God that loved this country has already approved that.” Ballot Box Snatchers Should Be Treated Like Armed Robber – BNPP Chief Chief Mbawuike Nwachukwu Igwe, Chairman, Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP), Owerri North LGA of Imo State, said: “I am 100% in support of what Mr. President said. Anybody who indulges in snatching of ballot papers during election is nothing short of an armed robber and should be treated as such. Snatching of ballot papers at polling centres is one of banes of our democracy. “Do you know what it takes to run for an election in this country?  If the electorate in your area say that they want you to represent them, vote for you and one idiot and his agents storm the voting centre and snatch the ballot box and rewrite the result in favour of your opponent, how will you feel? “Whoever snatches ballot boxes is an enemy of this country and should be made to pay the supreme price. Peculiar solutions should be applied to peculiar problems, for us to get it right.” Buhari Yet To Purge Himself Of Military Mentality – NGP Stalwart Chief Mgbemere Osunkwo Eke, Secretary, New Generation Party (NGP), MBAITOLI LGA in Imo State, asked: “How does the western world, especially America handle such a problem in an election? Do they resort to a shooting spree just because somebody has snatched a ballot box at a polling booth? What is the responsibility of the judiciary? “Killing anybody for snatching a ballot box is an extra judicial killing. The issue is that President Buhari is yet to purge himself of his military mentality. “It is crude and barbaric to take away life in the guise of checking ballot snatching. The ideal thing is to arrest the offender and then charge him to court. If the order of the president stands, do you not know that an innocent soul may be killed on the allegation of snatching ballot boxes?” Shoot-On-Sight Order Embarrassing – Activist Justice Uhuegbu, activist, human rights lawyer, National President, Association for Good Governance and National Convener, Youths Arise Initiative, took a swipe at the president’s shoot-at sight-order, saying it is embarrassing to the nation’s democracy and rule of law. Uhuegbu stressd that even though there was no justification for crime, Buhari should have known that the country was operating a democratic system of government and not military, pointing out that the Electoral Act had already made provision for all electoral offences for which ballot box snatching was one. Uhuegbu said that the judiciary had the responsibility of interpreting the law, noting that he would not know if the President and his supporters had given thought to the issue of extra-judicial killings which every law abiding citizen, international community, united nations  had all condemned. He added: “Nobody gives life and nobody has a right to take life, except by the pronouncement of court of competent jurisdiction, which must have pronounced the type of punishment for every offence or crime. It is important for leaders at all level to understand that Nigeria is not a military but civilian government.” He wondered if those who had supported the President knew the import of what they were doing, said it was a huge confusion when the military said they would act by bis pronouncement, while Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on the other hand, said it would abide by the electoral law. Appealing to Nigerian leaders to be careful of what they say, Uhuegbu pointed out that the country belonged to everyone and not just a selected few, stressing that if Buhari had wanted ballot box snatchers to be shot at sight, he should have accommodated that during the Electoral Act amendment, stressing that a problem would never be solved by creating another.