Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie One of the reasons why people are recording failure in their businesses is due to poor planning. There is an adage that says whoever fails to plan, has planned to fail. Every child of God is called to be fruitful. When God created the first man, the first mandate he gave him is to be fruitful: “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves upon the earth.” To be fruitful is to be successful in all ramifications. God wants his children to excel, even in their businesses. Psalm 128 declares, “You shall eat the fruit of the labour of your hands; you shall be happy, and it shall go well with you.” Indeed, by the labour of your hands you shall be. In the New Testament our Lord Jesus Christ told his disciples, “My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit and become my disciples.” Fruitfulness is the channel of glorification. God is glorified when His children and His chosen ones are fruitful. Child of God, you have no option, you must be fruitful. You are born to be fruitful. Without fruitfulness you cannot be a disciple of Christ. The Disciples of Christ are suppose to be the most fruitful people on earth. Jesus himself was the most fruitful Man the world has ever known. When he was in the world he fed thousands of people and he enriched so many people that encountered him. Jesus wants his followers to excel. For him, Christianity is not a religion of the lazy ones. Religion is not suppose to impoverish people. Religion is not supposed to be the opium of the people. According to Karl Marx “Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people.” Although there is element of truth in what Karl Marx said concerning religion but a wrong interpretation of what religion is all about. Religion, especially Christianity is supposed to be the most liberating and the most empowering institution in the world. Our Lord Jesus Christ did not impoverish his followers. Instead, as St. Paul rightly wrote in his second letter to the Corinthians 8:9 Jesus became poor in order to enrich us. “For you know the generous act[f] of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that by his poverty you might become rich.” Jesus was not a poor man. He was the riches Man the world has ever known. He was in the form of God, did not regard equality with God as something to be exploited, 7 but emptied himself, taking the form of a slave, being born in human likeness. And being found in human form,8 he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death—even death on a cross. 9 Therefore God also highly exalted him and gave him the name   that is above every name, 10 so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bend, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, 11 and every tongue should confess  that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.” Jesus emptied himself in order to fill us. He became poor in order to enrich us. He has laid the foundation for our fruitfulness. He wants his followers to be fruitful as he is fruitful. How can one become fruitful, you may ask? Or what are the principles of business breakthrough. The gospel of Luke chapter five presents some of the things we take for granted before establishing our business. Peter and his companions took these principles for granted and that is why they laboured all through the night and caught nothing. if you don’t want to labour in vain then you must take these principles seriously. Partner With Jesus: One common mistake people make as they establish their business is that they often try to begin their business without Christ Jesus. Whereas our Lord Jesus Christ said categorically: “…apart from me you can do nothing” (John 15:5). That was exactly what happened in the life of Peter and his companion. At first Peter was laboring without Christ Jesus. As he was labouring without Christ Jesus his business became stagnant. The moment he invited Jesus into the boat of his business things started turning around. Child of God, as you invite Jesus into your business, things will start happening. You will start recording success in your business. Aim High/ Dig Deeply: Don’t start your business in a low key. Don’t start any project in a shallow ground. Try to aim high. Before his encounter with our Lord Jesus Christ,Peter was operating in a very low key. Until the day he encountered Jesus. Jesus instructed him, ““Put out into the deep water and let down your nets for a catch.”  You don’t catch fish in the edge of the water. If you really want to catch fish you must go deeper. The deeper you go the chances for you to succeed. This is true of all business. Most people are afraid of dipping deep. They prefer the shallow level. There is an adage that says, if you want to get gold you must dig deeper because gold cannot be gotten in a shallow ground. In your business you must dig deeper. You must aim high. Even in your academics, the high you aim the better for you to succeed. If you aim at recording first class in your academic you may end up in second class upper. But if you aim at second class you may end up in third class or even you may fail completely. As you aim high you will surely record success in your business. If You Fail… Try Again: When Jesus instructed Peter to let down his net for a catch, at first Peter sounded so pessimistic, he told Jesus, “Master, we have worked all night long but have caught nothing. Yet if you say so, I will let down the nets.” 6 When they had done this, they caught so many fish that their nets were beginning to break.” Imagine what would have happened if Peter had refused to try again. He was able to record success because he tried again, in obedience to the Lord’s command. The downfall of a man is not the end of his life. If you try and fail do not give up, always try again and again. One day you must surely succeed. Employ Others To Help: When Peter and his companions saw the huge catch. “…they signaled their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both boats, so that they began to sink.” As your business is growing you need to move to another level. Have you ever considered employing people into your business? Remember, a tree cannot make a forest. Two good heads are better than one. If you really want your business to grow in into a big enterprise then you must consider employing more people to assist you. Be Humble… Show Appreciation: “When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, “Go away from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man!” 9 For he and all who were with him were amazed at the catch of fish that they had taken.” In your business you must be humble enough to acknowledge those who assisted you. Nobody is an island. People must have assisted if not through financial support, but at least with their advice and prayers. Acknowledge those people that assisted. As you remain ever grateful, especially to God, the Lord will bless you the more and it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!