Lagos – Former Super Eagles winger, Garba Lawal is picking positives from the Flying Eagles’ outing at the Africa U-20 Cup of Nations (AFCON), as he believes the squad learnt valuable lessons in Niger Republic. Although Paul Aigbogun’s side failed to win the third place match against the Amajita of South Africa on Saturday, Lawal is of a view that the coach and his wards have useful tips to build on heading into the FIFA U-20 World Cup in Poland. Lawal said as much during a radio sports programme in Lagos, on which he admitted it was a disappointing for the Flying Eagles not being able to reach the AFCON U-20 final and also winning the third place match, but recounted how Aigbogun had stated even before the competition began that his priority was the World Cup ticket. He reasoned that is now up to the coach to show his technical depth by building on what he saw from his players and other teams at the contest in Niamey, then go on to enact better results on the global level in May. “It is a disappointment that they could not get to the final or win the third place match,” Lawal began,” but I remember that the coach said his target was the World Cup ticket. “He must have been thinking more of the World Cup than the African championship, so now he has qualified for the World Cup. “That is not to say he lost everything at the African championship in Niger Republic; because a coach should learn from every match. “I am sure he and his players have learnt a lot from this championship, so we want to see what they can do when the World Cup finally begins.” The Flying Eagles defeated Burundi 2-0 in the first Group A match and drew goalless with the Amajita of South Africa in the second match but managed to beat host, Niger 1-0 in the third group match to qualify for the semifinal. At the semifinal stage, the team lost to the Junior Eagles of Mali 3-4 through penalty kicks and lost the third place match to the Amajita of South Africa 4-5 also through penalty kicks, making it the very first time that Nigeria will finished outside the medals’ range at the tournament. However, all the four semifinalists; Senegal, Mali, South Africa and Nigeria qualified for the FIFA U20 World Cup billed for Poland later in the year.