The Federal Government has again alleged a plot by the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Coalition of United Opposition Parties (CUPP) to launch an international smear campaign against the forthcoming polls in order to scuttle or discredit it. Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, made the claim Monday in Abuja, claiming that the PDP had, to that effect, dispatched a 10-member delegation to some Western capitals, including London, Brussels, and Washington to sell the lie that the administration had perfected plans to rig the presidential poll, citing credible intelligence. The allegation is coming barely two weeks after the Federal Government accused the opposition of a plot to instigate widespread violence during and after the 2019 general elections with a view to creating a constitutional crisis that would make the emergence of an interim government inevitable. Addressing journalists on the fresh allegation, the minister said the opposition was desperate on discrediting the forthcoming polling, having realised that it would lose the election. It also accused the opposition of using incendiary and provocative rhetoric against the two strategic institutions involved in the organisation of the poll: the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the police. Lai Mohammed said: “Today, still based on credible intelligence, we can reveal that the opposition is moving a step further. They are working hard to discredit the forthcoming election before, during, and after the polls. “Specifically, they are sending a delegation to some Western capitals, including London, Brussels, and Washington DC, to push the concocted lie that the Buhari administration has perfected the plan to rig the polls. “They are therefore pushing for a rejection of the results if the president wins re-election. They are also predicting carnage in the event of the president’s victory. “Already, they have started flying the rigging kite domestically. They have been engaging in incendiary rhetoric and in making outlandish claims using several fronts, including the nebulous Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) which, by the way, is nothing more than a reincarnated Association for Better Nigeria (ABN). “Of course, you all know the role that the ABN played in the failed 1993 political transition process. “They have targeted, for attack, the two key institutions that are most critical to the success of the election: the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the police. “They have used every malleable and malicious personality to make wild allegations against INEC. Their strategy is simple: discredit the election even before it is held, and continue during and after the polls with a view to convincing the West – which they believe they have won to their side using lobbyist-propelled propaganda – that the election is not credible.” The minister stressed that despite the alleged desperation of the opposition, the government remained undaunted in its commitment on delivering free, fair and credible poll. “President Muhammadu Buhari has repeatedly stated his commitment to ensuring a free, fair and violence-free election. “He has no doubt – based on testimonies of change from Nigerians – that the achievements of his administration, in the three cardinal areas of fighting corruption, revamping the economy and fighting insecurity, will speak for him at the polls. “He did not rig his way into office and has no need to rig now that he is in office.”