Samuel Nwokoro Lagos – Mr. Jude Obiekwe a prominent businessman in Mushin LGA of Lagos state has lived more than a decade in Mushin.  He is seeking to represent Mushin constituency 2 in the Federal House of Representatives under the banner of the Peoples Democratic Party. If poster campaign is all that it takes to win elections in Lagos, Jude Obiekwe could win because as far back as November last year, his life size poster image had started donning strategic points and major areas of Mushin federal Constituency 2 as a top contender. He is known to have mentored several boys in business and he is a known philanthropist. In a chance encounter with Daily Independent, Obiekwe said he is not just coming to contest elections, but to contest and win. “I am not entering the race just for the fun of it. I am contesting to win and I will win. This is not my first shot at politics. This time I am serious. The odds favor me to win and I will. I scored very well in my party’s primaries and I got good endorsements. Those who endorsed me are respectable indigenes of this Mushin and they are great mobilizers with great number of followers. So I will win”. Chief Obiekwe says his confidence derive from the fact that his opponents have become boring to the people of Mushin. He says the people of Mushin constituency 2 want a new face, and a positive change and not the kind of deception they are getting from those representing them both at the upper and lower chambers of the NASS. According to him, his main goal for vying is to get for his constituency quality attention from both the state and federal Government, constantly engage with the youths, and listen to their needs via quarterly Town Hall meetings, and also assist in co-opting them into vocational activities that could empower them and take many of them out of the streets and drug joints. We will create a workable scheme that would take many youths out of the streets into vocational productive life. “As you know the future of the country lies in the hands of the youth. All over the world today, that is the emphasis on sovereign growth strategies. The population of the youth, those in the high productive ages of their life (20s-40) are on the rise. This trend is all over the world because improved medical technology is reducing maternal deaths and life expectancy is improving rapidly. So you now have a preponderance of active life population. But to convert such number into quality population means a greater number has to be routed into an inclusive economic environment so that other anti-social groups like terrorists and religious fundamentalists do not recruit them. “That is why I will be targeting at youth empowerment in Mushin when if I become their representative. So our youth have to be meaningfully engaged. And they have to be mentored and effectively empowered to engage in rewarding vocations”. For Obikwe, majority will vote for him in Mushin Constituency 2 because Mushin is in equal measure of both indigenes and non-indigenes, united by commerce that goes in the various markets that dot Mushin LGA as symbolized by the sprawling auto spare-parts market. “I have massive following in this area .You can see the crowd here. I have quality representation and I will win.