She is often spotted sitting in the front row at Dior events. So it’s no surprise that Kelly Osbourne led the glamour as she arrived at a pre-Grammy’s party hosted by the fashion house on Friday night in Los Angeles. The actress, 34, kept it demure and chic in a navy striped jumpsuit, which was clinched around her waist and accentuated her hourglass physique. Kelly’s stylish number was teamed with a pair of towering black stilettos, which gave her petite frame some added inches as she posed for snaps. The daughter of Sharon and Ozzy layered her look with a black jacket, while simply accessorising with a simple pendant, which featured a glittering cat mask emblem. She toted a stylish leather bag full of her essentials, featuring a gold buckle and chunky gold chain strap. Kelly wore her glossy dark silver locks in fun curls, while sporting a glamorous coat of make-up, including a pretty pink lip which accentuated her pretty features. The star recently took to Instagram to share her personal struggle with overcoming the ‘dark’ times in her life as she spoke about a previous relapse in which her brother Jack came to her rescue. The beauty posted a graph of her time spent in a Twelve Steps program as she wrote: ‘This past year has been one of the hardest years of my life and I feel it’s time share that with you guys.’ Kelly said: ‘I want to take this time to thank my brother @jackosbourne who answered the phone to me one year ago today and picked me up from where I had fallen yet again without judgment. ‘He has held my hand throughout this whole process. To cut a long story short things got really dark. I gave up on everything in my life but most of all I gave up on myself,’ she continued. ‘Life on life’s terms became to much for me to handle. The only way I knew how to function was to self medicate and go from project to project so I never had to focus on what was really going on with me. Something had to give… and it did. ‘I have spend the past year truly working on my mind body and soul! I had to take a step out of the public eye away from work and give myself a chance to heal and figure out who the f*** I really am.’ she added.