North West has landed her first solo magazine cover and we honestly don’t know what to do with ourselves. And neither does her mother Kim Kardashian by the looks of things. The daughter of rapper and fashion designer Kanye West posed up a storm for WWD Beauty magazine and it left us thinking back to what on earth we were doing at five years old. It turns that not only does North know her angles at such a young age, but she has also already got the creative directing thing right under control after picking her own looks and makeup colours. And we can confidently confirm that the young buck is slaying in everything single photo. Kim even reported that North’s rider was fairly low-maintenance as all she wanted was nachos. Same, North, same – but we may have also asked for a small loan of a £1 million because our parents aren’t Kimye. Taking to Twitter, North’s reality TV star mother said: ‘My most stylish and beautiful baby girl North shot her 1st cover for @wwd !!!! She loves fashion & beauty and has so much fun doing this! Hair- @chrisappleton1, Eyeliner- @maryphillips, Styling- @kimkardashian @jucophoto.” Kim continued: “I’m seriously so proud of my Northie! She picked her looks and eyeliner color and is so involved and loves fashion & beauty so much so she has the best time at her @wwd shoot! Kanye & I always say she’s Kristen Crawley’s style twin. ‘All she wanted was nachos on shoot day and we made that happen! Thank you @wwd for capturing these amazing memories for her.” Speaking of the little star, the publication said: “Here, she poses for her first solo cover. Her distinct fashion sense belies her age, and lately, so does her eye for makeup.’ We are sure the West household is ready to fight off any critics that may say North is too young for make-up as Kim has had this conversation many times before. Kim, who has her own make-up line, said she lets her daughter experiment and makes sure that her use of cosmetics is ‘appropriate’. The star argued: “I don’t think she should wear lashes or too dark of a lipstick. I want her to express herself, but I want her to be appropriate too.’ Kim continued: ‘I already know North is into make-up for sure… when companies send make-up and I have a lot, I’ll give it to her.” The pictures of North were taken for a series exploring Generations Z all the way to Generation Alpha and their impact on the global beauty industry. The term Generation Alpha applies to children born between 2011 and 2025. Gen X is the group of sassy humans that came before Millennials (those born between the 80s and mid-90s), while Gen Z closely follows the millennials. North West was photographed by JUCO to represent what will become the largest generation by 2025. If this is what the Gen Alpha are doing, then the rest of us are in for a very serious ride. 