ASABA – Owing to the low revenue derived from tax in Delta State, Stakeholders linked to Delta State Tax Justice and Good Governance have canvassed for the need to eradicate unguided tax contractors in the state. Speaking on Thursday during a meeting of Tax Stakeholders in Asaba, the Director of Operations, State Board of Internal Revenue, Mr Ittawansa Paul noted that the State government has contacted competent tax consultant to ensure tax is paid to the right purse. He also mentioned that the body is doing everything in its power to ensure taxes gotten from the informal sector are paid with disparity to income tax of traders. Urging members of the public on the need to pay their tax, he stated that payment of tax would give the citizens a right of accountability of those who govern them. Speaking at the event, the Consultant to Delta State Board of Internal Revenue, Mr Chuks Iku stated that the body has faced challenges of data collections of taxpayers in the informal sector, stating that though it would take time but the organization will get it right. Responding to how the body has been able to handle the disparity of business in relation to tax payment in the informal sector, he stated that the body has been able to identify businesses that have a high income. “Despite being in the informal sector, some people earn a lot of money. Instead, we assess the business and tax such person based on the businesses,” he stated. While presenting the report on Taxation in the Informal Sector, the Coordinator of Delta State Tax Justice Good Governance, Barr. Bridget Anyafulu assured that the platform would ensure transparency in taxation. She emphasized that sensitization of the public is also paramount in order to eradicate and limit the powers of illegal contractors who remit little or nothing to the government. According to Anyafulu, “In most Local Governments Areas (LGA), the contractors do not enumerate what they get. Also, they only ask for a particular per cent without knowing the actual amount accrued by the contractors. Other developed countries live on tax but we live in oil and it has to stop”. The State Vice Chairman of Trade Union Congress ( TUC), Mr Bolum Martin lauded platform’s operation and assured it of partnership with the Congress in the drive to bring sanity and justice to tax administration in the state. Emphasising that no country can operate efficiently without tax, he alluded to the survival of Lagos State on taxation during a period allocation to the state was withheld by the federal government. In his remarks, the State Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Mr Tony Toki promised to give the needed support to the course of the platform. A representative of market women in Udu Local Government Area (LGA), Mrs Grace Mragbozo stated that the enlightenment has helped create awareness amongst women on payment of tax, saying that in Udu, the women are more educated on taxation as the group has been able to checkmate double taxation.