Nigeria’s rising oil export receipts will support banks’ balance sheets in the coming quarters, a research by Fitch Solutions, has shown. It predicted that the nation’s commercial banking would undergo a modest recovery over the coming quarters against the shrunk client loan growth by a monthly average of 4.1% in the months to August 14, 2018 , largely refiecting weak economic growth and banks’ concerns about elevated levels of non-performing loans (NPLs). ‘’However, we expect real GDP growth to accelerate in 2019—to around 2.4%, from 1.9% in 2018—with higher fiscal spending around the February 16 elections and moderate improvements in oil production and prices helping to drive expansion. “The oil sector continues to play a very substantial role in the banking sector, both in terms of credit demand and as a source of foreign currency revenue. Indeed, according to the National Bureau of Statistics, the oil and gas sector accounted for 23.1% of total credit supplied to the private sector in Q318. A stronger performance by the sector should thus provide tailwinds for the banking industry, the report added. It said that the collapse in oil prices in 2014, and subsequent economic underperformance in Nigeria in 2015-17, saw asset quality decline considerably: the ratio of NPLs to total loans rose from 3.0% at end-2014 to 15.1% in the third quarter of 2017. It however, said NPLs have subsequently moderated, averaging 13.5% in the first nine months of 2018 which remains above the CBN’s regulatory threshold of 5.0%. “We believe that rising economic activity in 2019 will see asset quality continue to improve over coming quarters. However, the impact of this improvement on banks’ willingness to lend to the private sector will be constrained by two factors: continued crowding out, and banks’ need to comply with more stringent capital requirements,’’ it added. According to the report, a higher fiscal deficit driven by weak revenue mobilisation amid still tight domestic financing conditions will continue to see elevated bond yields, serving to crowd out private sector credit. The proposed 2019 budget targets a reduction in the fiscal deficit to 1.3% of GDP, but this is unlikely to be attained: we expect overruns of the projected NGN4.0trn (USD11.1bn) recurrent spending, with expenditure on salaries particularly likely to exceed budgeted totals in what is an election year. Some overshooting of spending on capital projects is also possible. As of February 14, average yields on FGN Bonds stood at around 15%, and further increases in borrowing costs are likely in the domestic bond market in 2019, regardless of the outcome of the February election, reflecting pressures on the fiscal deficit. It added that the implementation of more stringent banking regulations – and higher associated costs for the banking sector – constitutes a further potential constraint on the expansion of credit to the private sector, although the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is sending out mixed signals on such regulations. In February it announced that banks will have four years in which to absorb impairments arising from the implementation of IFRS9 in January 2018, having previously suggested that banks would have to reflect the full impact in their accounts by end March 2019. “However, the CBN has also stated that it will introduce full Basel III requirements from Q219, placing an additional constraint on banks’ capital buffers. Basel III dictates leverage and liquidity coverage ratios, and requires that banks build up a counter-cyclical buffer, meaning that banks will be required to raise more capital in periods of high credit growth. While this should improve systemic risk over the longer term, the combination of increased capital requirements (particularly in Tier 1 capital) and minimum liquidity requirements is likely to reduce banks’ return on equity (ROE), while some small- to medium-sized banks may struggle to raise capital to the necessary levels. ‘’Overall, the introduction of Basel III is likely to lead to risk inhibition among banks, suggesting that overall growth in client loans will be just 5.0% y-o-y— following two years of contraction in 2017-18.