Lagos – Sports competitions all over the world have been known to throw up surprises at every point in time. For instance, when Denmark replaced Yugoslavia in the Euro 1992, not so many people gave them the chance of making an impact in a competition they had little or no adequate preparation. Denmark finished as runners-up behind Yugoslavia in Group 4 of the qualification stage. Back then only the winners of the seven groups joined the hosts (Sweden) in the tournament. The Danes thought they would be experiencing the tournament from the comfort of their art homes until a week before the opening fixture. Then Yugoslavia were banned from participating because they had a few little problems to sort out. The rest, they say, is history as ‘unprepared’ Denmark won the tournament. But that win was a sharp contrast to what happened in the 2004 edition of the same competition hosted by Portugal. Unheralded Greece went all the way to win the cup, beaten the host over two legs, in the opening match and in the final. The two examples are different given that the first instance is, in most cases a product of luck, while in the second instance, Greece’s triumph was a product of hard work, long-term planning and well-mapped out plans of action to end decades of failures at that level. Greece’s last visit to a European Championships was in 1980. They had made it to the 1994 World Cup but did not win a game in the United States. That was not really a surprise: they had never won a game in a major tournament. They had never even scored a goal. Desperate to change that miserable record, in 2001 the Greek Football Association handed responsibility of the under-performing national team to a veteran German coach, Otto Rehhagel, renowned as a smart tactician and, above all else, an austere disciplinarian. He ruffled feathers in the team and taught the players that the national team came first, as was confirmed by one of his players then, Takis Fyssas, who played as a defender. “The first thing he taught us was that the national team had to come first. It was more like a family,” says Fyssas. “It was not one of these national teams with 55 players. We had 20 or so who were always in the squad — he would bring two or three more along to have a look at them — and so we were very close. We would sacrifice everything for each other.” The result of the reorganization and fortification of the team paid off hugely. In the race to qualifying for the Euro 2004, Greece did not lose in 15 games, a record for a country that had stuttered in major championship. No wonder the countrymen back home could not sleep after their national team caused an upset when they beat hosts, Portugal, 2-1 in the opening match, making it the first time Greece would be winning a match in any major championship. All these illustrations points to Nigeria’s participation in the summer’s Africa Cup of Nation in Egypt. Unlike Greece, Nigeria are a veteran of the Cup of Nation with three triumphs in 1980, 1994 and 2013, and a hoard of participations and runners up medals since the country debuted in the biannual competition in 1963 in Ghana. The Super Eagles have never been bereft of talents and have churned out some of the best soccer exports to Europe from Africa. But after missing the 2015 and 2017 editions of the tournament and qualifying almost seamlessly for the next edition coming up in June, some analysts believe that anything short of the title might be considered a failure by virtue of the country’s pedigree. Amaju Pinnick, the president of the NFF, re-emphasised the need for Nigeria to win the competition in Egypt. “There are so many competitions this year and we intend to, as usual, put our best foot forward in each and every one of them. The target always is to emerge victorious. However, the very big one that we do not want to miss is the AFCON title. We have won it three times but we want it for a fourth time so that we can close the gap with the likes of Egypt and Cameroon,” Pinnick said. But how good is the Super Eagles to win the competition? This is a question Nigerians are asking themselves as Coach Gernot Rohr intensifies preparations. While Rohr can boast of good forwards in Ahmed Musa, Odion Ighalo, Samuel Kalu, Moses Simon, Alex Iwobi, the same cannot be said of the team’s middle and defence. In the midfield, the combo of Wilfred Ndidi, Ogenyi Onazi and Oghenekaro Etebo has not proven efficient, particularly in big-time matches. It was the trio who were there when South Africa defeated Nigeria 2-0 in Uyo, with Nigeria surrendering the middle to their opponents. Also, in most of the friendly matches Nigeria played prior the World Cup, both players were tried. But then, there are other options like John Ogu and Mikel Agu, whose integration in the team has been steady, even though slow. The most potent midfield combo in the team, as has been seen in the past, is Captain Mikel Obi, combining with Onazi and, in most cases, with either of the other mentioned. But the snag is that Mikel is gradually aging and might not start in all the games in Egypt. This is where the dilemma is, even though most analysts have pointed to Mikel’s dispensability in the team, given that in his absence, the country won the Nations Cup ticket almost seamlessly. But AFCON is a different ball game. In the back, while the central defensive combination of William Troost-Ekong and Leon Balogun has shown grit, the same cannot be said of left and right back positions where previous options like Brian Idowu, Ola Aina, Semi Ajayi and Chigozie Awaziem as well as Kenneth Omeruo could not show enough nerve to fully convince the coach ahead of AFCON. But the duo of Shehu Abdullahi and Tyronne Ebuehi, when very active, brings versatility at the back. May be, Omeruo’s form at his club Spanish side, Leganés, could inspire some hope in Nigerians of a better option. When Nigeria won the cup in 2013, it was surprising that the late Stephen Keshi thrust Godfrey Oboabona and Omeruo to marshal the team’s central defence and they never fail. There is also a huge doubt on the abilities of first choice goalie, Francis Uzoho, as Nigerians believe that he was yet to attain a big-time status. As solution, Austin Eguaveon, former handler of the tea, urged the coach to stop experimenting and focus on the players he has and also build confidence in them to deliver. “I feel the time is too short for inviting untested players; the coach can still win the Cup of Nations with the material he has. All he needs is to psych them up and ensure they are well motivated,” he told SATURDAY INDEPENDENT. This is even as some schools of thought believe that some fortifications were needed to ensure very good team ahead of the competition. But as it is obvious that Super Eagles is deficient in some departments, and Rohr can do what Rehhagel did with the Greece national team when faced with difficult situations. When Greece were to play France and Czech Republic in the quarter final and the semifinal of the Euro 2004 respectively, he realised that he hadn’t the players that could match such stars as Zinedine Zidane, Thierry Henry, Rober Pires, Lilian Thuram and Bixente Lizarazu, among other on the French side, and Pavel Nedved, Jan Koller and Milan Baros, among others in the Czech side, he decided to exploit their weakness of the opponents instead of fully relying only on his team’s strong points. Greece did not have the players to convince; they did not have a star to build around or the skill and guile to go toe-to-toe with Europe’s best; instead, to exploit the raw material at his disposal and exploit the weakness of his opponents.  They employed determination. Against the Czechs, Rehhagel’s team shut down their opponent’s attack and denied them possession, frustrating all their movements. France literarily showed poor understanding at the back and solely relied on their front to win matches. That was what Greece exploited, engaging on long balls to locate their attackers who were handful to the French. Even as the draws are yet to be conducted, some of the top countries have some weaknesses that could be exploited. Egypt, for example are very potent and rely so much in the attack to but their middle is penetrable. Assuming they will be in the same group with Nigeria, Rohr can shut out the Pharaohs by making sure fewer or no balls get to their front. In that way, players like wing wizard, Moses, and Kalu can exploit their poor back to wreak havoc. Rohr should employ hoards of scouts to get information on the teams in our group with a view to analyzing their strengths and weaknesses ahead of the matches.