ABUJA – Kayode Ajulo, a constitutional lawyer and secretary of Forward With Buhari (FWB), has filed a case against former Vice President Atiku Abubakr, the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) presidential candidate, seeking the court  to determine his eligibility to run for the office of Nigerian President. Ajulo, in a case with Suite Number FAC/ABJ/CS/177/2019 filed at the Federal High Court, Abuja, in Monday, is asking the court to interpret section 25 (1) & (2) and 131(a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended. In an originating sermons, which include Abubakar, People Democratic Party, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Attorney General of the Federation as defendants, Ajulo is asking the court to determine whether section 25 of the Constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) is the sole authority that spells out ways by which a person can become a Nigerian’s citizen by birth. “Whether by the provision of section 131(a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) only a Nigeria citizen by birth can contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “And whether by combine interpretation of section 25 (1) & (2) and 131(a) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended and given the circumstances surrounding the birth of the 1st defendant, he can be cleared by the second and third defendants to contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria? He said on the basis of the above section that Atiku is not fit to contest the presidential election, as he is not a Nigerian citizen by birth. Quoting relevant laws, he said Atiku Abukakar is not fit to contest. “Atiku is from Jada town in Adamawa State of Nigeria. However, Jada used to be in Ganye Local Government Area in Adamawa. Ganye is regarded as the mother of the whole Chamba tribe. Jada as a Local Government Area was created from Ganye Local Government Area of Adamawa state, Nigeria. “Ganye, however, was never part of Nigeria legally until the February 1961 plebiscite where the people of the then Northern Cameroon voted to join Nigeria. The area had been entrusted to Britain by a League of Nations mandate in 1919 and later as Trust Territory by the United Nations in 1946.”