IBADAN – There was heavy security arrangement at Ogbomoso North Local Government Area of Oyo State on Wednesday, as Hon. Abass Bello Bayewuwon was sworn in as the new Chairman of the council area. Hon. Bayewuwon replaced Olamiju Alao-Akala, son of former governor and gubernatorial candidate of Action Democratic Party (ADP) in Oyo State, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, who was suspended by four councilors on Tuesday. The swearing-in ceremony took place at the office of the state’s Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Hon. Bimbo Kolade, at the Oyo state Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan. The ceremony was attended by chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from Ogbomoso zone of the state. Until Tuesday, Hon. Bayewuwon was deputy to Olamiju Alao-Akala, who was suspended for dumping the ruling APC and joining ADP to support his father’s governorship ambition. Meanwhile, Olamiju has declared that he remained the Executive Chairman of Ogbomoso North Local Government, describing his suspension as illegal. The Alao-Akala’s son, in a statement he personally signed, said the Councilors, who carried out the purported suspension lacked the power to do so because they had not been inaugurated. The embattled suspended chairman vowed that he would complete his three year tenure, which he promised to use to serve the people of the council area. However, there was heavy presence of police at the premises of the Ogbomoso North Local Government Area headquarters on Wednesday. About five police patrol vehicles were stationed at strategic locations within the council area, while stern looking police officers were also sighted. It would be recalled that former Governor Alao-Akala withdrew from the contest to get Oyo gubernatorial ticket few days to the primaries and later secured the ADP’s ticket to contest the 2019 election. Also, Olamiju who contested and won the Chairmanship seat of Ogbomoso North Local Government Area on the platform of APC in May 12, 2018 council election in the state, dumped the ruling party last week to join his father in the new party. However, the crisis took another dimension as four councilors in a letter dated February 15, 2019 suspended Alao-Akala’s son as the council boss. The four councilors who signed the letter obtained by journalists in Ibadan on Tuesday were Hon. Adebowale Oladunmoni (Deputy Leader), Hon. Zakariyau Ayinde Kabiru, Hon. Adisa Raheem Kingsley and Hon. Busari Lamidi Adesina. The four councilors in the letter, a copy which were sent to the office of the Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Mr. Bimbo Kolade said, “Take notice that we the undersigned councilors in Ogbomoso Local Government Area hereby passed a resolution suspending you from the office as the executive chairman of Ogbomoso North Local Government for your gross misconduct.”