Mr. Nikagbatse Oki, a political analyst in this interview with JOHN AMUDO said Nigerians should join hands with President Muhammadu Buhari in his fight against corruption in order to sanitise the battered economy he inherited from the past administration. Excerpts: What are your expectations as Nigeria goes into another election? My reaction is that the common man should be wiser this time around; They should not allow politicians, especially the bad ones to cheat on them again. Since October 1st 1960, there is a group of Nigerians that ruled this country up to 2015, they sold Nigeria to themselves; their fear now is the battle against corruption. I wish to remind the common man that they can only see the so called corrupt politicians during election, they will want the common man to die for them whereas, their children are in abroad safe and sound. But, the problem with the common man is that they never bothered to ask themselves why they are always coming to them during election period. It is pertinent to advice the down trodden to stop dancing to the intrigues of the corrupt politicians who will only use and dump them; these same people are not leading this country. Is Our Democracy still on course? It is a pity that our country has been bastardized for too long a time, so, how do you expect a country that have been so destroyed to be repaired within the shortest possible period? Unfortunately, those people who made our children to become “Area Boys” are back again to buy the votes of the electorates; to make our children become area boys again and make out area to be under-developed. For the first time in history, we have the progressive in government and, that is the person of president Muhammadu Buhari, who is leading a revolution to change this corrupt country for good. Which party are you rooting for between the PDP and APC? Without mincing words, I want to plead with Nigerians to vote for president Buhari, whose agenda is to free Nigeria from corruption and all forms of evils plaguing this country. I want to say categorically that all APC candidates are the common man’s candidate in this election; Nigerians should not be deceived into voting for PDP because they will bring us back-ward again”. However, I will advise that if the reactionaries give out money to voters, they should not reject it, rather they should demand for more of their ill- gotten wealth. Why do you think President Buhari’s tenure should be renewed? I can also say categorically that president Buhari is the messiah, not Atiku nor any other political candidate. The fear that Buhari is coming back for the second term to fight corruption is what is driving them and they should not be given any opportunity to come back because they have destroyed this country for so many years. I plead passionately to Nigerians to support president Buhari in his effort to rid this country of corruption to the end. No doubt, Buahri is the poor man candidate because he knows the pains and sufferings the common man is facing and can also proffer solution to them. My campaign is that the average Nigerian should join hands with the APC led government and flush out the wicked reactionaries who does not want the country to move forward. What is your take on the President’s anti-corruption war? I lived abroad all though my life and, I have just come back. I don’t want Nigerians to be deceived again. Every electorates should be battle ready to make this country among the best in Africa. Yes, Buhari is succeeding in his fight against corruption and insecurity. There is no country in the world that is free of insecurity and, I must tell you that Buhari is really fighting corruption and insecurity head on.