Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Do you know that most people are living under a curse? Do you know that majority of people believe that the reason why they are not progressing is as a result of inherited curses? Do you even know that most families are doing everything humanly possible to get rid of their curses? Some families have paid dearly in order to conduct family liberations while others are still believing God for total liberation, especially liberation from inherited curses. If I may ask, does curse have any effect in people’s life? What are the consequences of curses? How does one know if he or she is under a curse? Is it possible to liberate one from inherited curses? How can one be liberated from inherited curses? Where can one go to receive such liberation? Who is your Liberator? How can you get connected to your liberator? What is the relationship between curse and blessing? Is there any way one can replace his or her curses with blessings? What are the possible channels of blessings? A curse is a profane oath or a word which threatens the other person to have bad luck. It is also an evil that has been invoked upon someone. A cursed person is a condemned person. Curses have so many negative effects and implications. So many people believed that poverty, barrenness and other misfortune is a sign of a curse. For instance, in the gospel of John chapter 9 when the disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ saw a man that was born blind, they were hundred percent sure that the cause of the blindness was as a result of parental sin or curses. But our Lord Jesus Christ told his followers, “Neither this man nor his parents sinned; he was born blind so that God’s works might be revealed in him.” certainly this was not what the disciples were expecting to hear. They thought all misfortunes were the wages of sin and curses. Most people still share this idea till today. Not all curses are inherited. Not all of them are even caused by one’s sin. There are some curses that leads to blessings. Blessing, on the other hand, is a direct opposite of curses. It is an act of invoking of divine favor and approval upon a person. Blessing brings happiness and many other benefits. A blessed person is a favoured person. The word blessing is equivalent with the Hebrew word barak, which means to praise, to congratulate, or to salute. A typical example is the case of Elizabeth, when she greeted Mary, saying, “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb.” In this case, blessing is used both as a praise and a means of congratulations. Blessing is also used in the bible as a divine affirmation, confirmation authorization. For instance, in the book of Genesis 1:28 after the creation of the male and female, “God blessed them, and said to them: “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves upon the earth.” By blessing the first male and female after creation the Lord God affirmed his authority over other created things. Fruitfulness is a sign of blessing. Human beings are blessed to be fruitful. Blessing is the most pleasant complement anyone can receive. It is the channel through which curses can be erased. The book of Deuteronomy 23:5 declares, “…the Lord your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the Lord your God loved you.” According to this passage, the Lord God uses blessings to wipe away curses. He does not even allow his chosen ones to remain under a curse. That is why He assured Abraham, “I will bless those who bless you and the one who curses you I will curse; and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.” (Genesis 12:3). Child of God, do you know that your enemies are in trouble? Like Abraham, those who curse you shall be cursed. Indeed, you are a channel of God’s blessings. Through you, your family and your generation shall be blessed! Today’s readings, especially the gospel of Luke 6:17.20-26 presents other possible channels of blessings. “Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.” The poor are those who depend on God for their daily bread. They are God’s favourite children. Our Lord Jesus Christ loved them so much that he took them as the object of his missionary work. In Luke 4:18 he declares, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to bring good news to the poor.” The poor are blessed because they are directly connected with God. They always pray to God for their needs. Most of them live a humble and simple life style. Apart from the poor, another group that our Lord Jesus Christ declared blessed and those who hunger and thirst for righteousness: “Blessed are you that hunger now, for you shall be satisfied.” God is the only Being that can satisfy hunger. We cannot find satisfaction in food or other material things. We can only find satisfaction in God. No wonder, in his prayer, St. Augustine declares, “Our heart is restless until it finds its rest in thee.” Our heart cannot find satisfaction elsewhere except in God. He is the only One that can satisfy our innermost hunger. The next group after the poor and those who are hungry are the mourners, those who weep. Our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “Blessed are you that weep now, for you shall laugh.” Our God is the most caring being the world has ever known. He is our Provider and Comforter. He is the Comforter of the afflicted. He told the prophet Isaiah, “Comfort, O comfort my people, says your God. 2 Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that she has served her term, that her penalty is paid…” Child of God, as long as our Lord Jesus Christ is concerned, your period of mourning is over! you are blessed! The next and most blessed groups, according to our Lord Jesus Christ, are the rejected and persecuted ones. Jesus declares, “Blessed are you when men hate you, and when they exclude you and revile you, and cast out your name as evil, on account of the Son of man! Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets.” Our God is indeed the Defender of the defenseless. He is the Voice of the voiceless. He is the Saviour of those who are persecuted and rejected. The persecuted ones are blessed not just because they have someone like Jesus who defends them. They are also blessed because they have a special place in God’s kingdom. Their reward is indeed great in God’s kingdom. Another group that share in this divine blessing are those who placed their trust in the Lord:  Psalm 1 declares, “ Blessed indeed is the man who follows not the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the path with sinners, nor abides in the company of scorners, but whose delight is the law of the Lord, and who ponders his law day and night. He is like a tree that is planted beside the flowing waters, that yields its fruit in due season, and whose leaves shall never fade; and all that he does shall prosper.” Child of God, if you really want to be blessed, then you must avoid the company of the wicked and of the sinners. As you make God’s law the standard of your life, you shall be fruitful and successful and it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!