The Director-General, Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS), Dr. Vincent Isegbe, has said NAQS is currently leading the Federal Government’s drive to stem the tide of rejection of some Nigerian agricultural produce in foreign markets largely due to quality defects. He said as the agency saddled with the responsibility to promote export of agricultural produce, NAQS was determined to reverse the situation where the country loses huge revenue, servicing narrow export market options. He added that given the need to empower farmers, off-takers and exporters to comply with the standards of the export market, the agency was implementing a programme of backward integration for better export products. Isegbe in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT noted that the inability of stakeholders across the value chain to meet the relevant sanitary and phytosanitary requirements applicable in the destination countries constituted the most serious impediment to the country’s participation in foreign trade. “This is because many countries prohibit the import of produce with mycotoxin contamination, high pesticide residue, microbial contamination, sloppy packaging and labelling. “It is our goal to make Nigerian agricultural produce acceptable everywhere in the world. That way, we will earn more foreign exchange from more destination countries”, he said. According to him, the ongoing intervention code-named “Export Improvement Initiative,” is tailored to ensure that all relevant activities performed from the fields where the prospective export crops are cultivated up to the point of shipment are consistent with the standard conditions and protocols. He said NAQS had been interfacing with stakeholders to educate and train them on export quality criteria for agricultural produce as part of the measure to boost agricultural exports. He noted that the highlights of its enlightenment campaigns are the instruction of stakeholders on global Good Agricultural Practice (GAP) and the formation of self-regulating associations among the different commodity producer constituencies. “Through this strategy, NAQS is addressing the fundamental inhibitors of agricultural export and widening the scope for participation of everyday Nigerians in the export business,” he said. He said the efforts of the service had achieved positive results in monetary terms for the country among others. The DG said: “I am glad to report that NAQS efforts in mainstreaming best practices are yielding great rewards. Due to increased knowledge and adaptation to guidelines, Nigeria was able to export 1,983 containers of Hibiscus to Mexico, within the first 9 months of 2017. The country earned $35 million US dollars in the self-same period. “Our mission is to catalyse the harnessing of the export potentials of Nigerian agricultural resources. We recently conducted a crop pest survey on pigeon pea, sorghum and groundnut. “The result of our pigeon pea survey has paved a way for Nigeria to penetrate the $100 billion worth pigeon pea market of India. In the same vein, our crop pest survey on sorghum has opened the door for Nigeria to export forage sorghum to China. “A local company is expected to ship out the first batch of its consignment in the first quarter of this year. “Furthermore, we are working assiduously to expand our export frontiers. In addition to the traditional agro-export items, we have identified underutilised but high premium emerging agro-commodities such as sesame, soya bean, cinnamon, pigeon pea, sugar cane, honey and snail that will revolutionise Nigeria’s non-oil export business as we know it.”