Afis Kareem Lagos – Oba Adekunle Oyelude Makama, the Olowu of Owu- Kuta in Osun state has expressed happiness that the Nigerian Army and other security agencies were not mentioned  by Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the  Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as one of the reasons responsible for the postponement of last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. He further commended the Nigerian Army for its noble role in the fight against insurgents and armed banditry across the country. The monarch, who spoke at a Press Conference held in Lagos on Tuesday, titled, “ While Politicians Think About The Next Election, Royal Father Think About Secured and Safe Country” said there was need for improved budgetary allocation to the Ministry of Defence which will bring about accelerated equipping of the Nigerian military to confront the challenges of modern urban and conventional warfare. Oba Makama saluted the courage of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai for his professionalism despite the daunting task to contain the Boko Haram and other banditry. He went further to plead with our politicians across board not to play politics with our Armed Forces being the symbol of our unity. He implored all the presidential candidates to keep to the peace accord they subscribe to recently, bearing in mind that we must have country first before any other thing. The monarch also highlighted many innovations and tactical efforts of the Army under the leadership of Gen. Buratai. “I invited you to share my thoughts about our country and the Armed Forces. Some of you are familiar with my intervention on the need to support our Armed Forces in order to boost their morale for optimum performance. In my previous media interactions, I called for support for the Nigerian Armed Forces from both local and International Community since the whole world is a global village in order to defeat the Boko Haram insurgent and other groups in the country threatening our internal cohesion”. “I say with every sense of responsibility that contemporary governance has informally imposed some social-political duties on us as Royal Father such that we can no longer fold our arms and watch things go awry. “I am happy that of all the reasons adduced for the postponement of the election by the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Prof Mahmood Yakub, our Armed Forces were never accused of bias in the discharge of its duties. In fact, two days before the election was postponed, our Armed Forces announced to provide support for the police and other security agencies deployed for the election if the need arises”. “And despite the attack on the convoy of Borno state governor, Kashim Shettima and the attack on Buni Yadi, our Armed Forces was able to dislodge the insurgent and restore hope”. “I salute the courage of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai for his professionalism despite the daunting task to contain the Boko Haram and other banditry I want to plead with our politicians across board not to play politics with our Armed Forces being the symbol of our unity. I also want to urge all the presidential candidates to keep to the peace accord they subscribe to recently, bearing in mind that we must have country first before any other thing”. “The rescheduled election slated for February 23 and March 9 2019 should be approached with open minded. The winner should be magnanimous in victory while the runners up should concede defeat. If the election is about the masses as they want us to believe, there should be  ‘No Victor nor Vanquished’. It should be about our country Nigeria first. “My appeal to all the gladiators is to eschew violence. Nothing should be done to jeopardise the peace and the template set by ex -President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan in 2015” he said.