Chibuike Chukwu,  Sulaiman Fasasi Lagos / Abeokuta , Ogun State police command on Monday confirmed the death of a Police Corporal, Sunday Idoko, shot by unknown gunmen on Sunday while accompanying election results from Ipokia to Ilaro collation centre at Ilaro, headquarters of Yewa South Local Government Area of the state. The incident occurred about 8.00p.m when the gunmen reportedly laid ambush at Eredo area in Yewa South Local Government and severally shot at the vehicle conveying the results. The results of the House of Representatives for Ipokia/Yewa South Federal constituency were being taken to Oronna Hall in Ilaro, headquarters of the Yewa South LG. The federal constituency was won by the candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Kola Lawal. It was gathered that about 12 police officers were in the escort but Idoko was unlucky as he was hit by the bullet and died before getting to the hospital. While confirming the incident, the Command’s Spokesman in Abeokuta, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the election results were intact. He vowed that the hoodlums would be brought to book. Oyeyemi disclosed that the state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, had directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Wale Abase, to commence investigation into the matter. He said, “The unfortunate incident happened on Sunday evening, when he was escorting election results to Ilaro. The hoodlums ambushed the vehicle conveying the result. “We are on the trail of the hoodlums and we are going to arrest them.” IGP Orders Swift Prosecution Of Perpetrators Of Bayelsa Violence Meanwhile, Mohammed Adamu, the acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP), has ordered the immediate arrest and prosecution of perpetrators of alleged violence against a senior police officer on Sunday in Bayelsa State. Kola Okunola, the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Federal SARS in Bayelsa, was on Sunday allegedly taken hostage and stripped naked by thugs suspected to be sponsored by the All Progressives Congress (APC). Okunola was held for allegedly refusing to append his signature on fake results sheet. A statement issued by the Force Spokesman, Frank Mba, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, on Monday in Abuja, said Adamu said that those involved would be prosecuted, no matter their positions. The IGP, who described the incident as unwarranted and unprovoked, warned that under his watch, such brazen acts of impunity would not be condoned. In a related development, the police have arrested five male suspects in Umuahia, Abia State, for allegedly attacking a Deputy Superintendent of Police on election duty. Mba said that the attacks had highlighted the risks inherent in policing the country. He said that there was the need for stakeholders and government at all levels to continue to support police in the discharge of their responsibilities.