Ahmad Tijjani Abdul Kano – Overwhelmed by a mammoth crowd that welcomed him to his campaign in the ancient city of Kano, Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), promised to revitalise commerce and agriculture in the state if elected at the February 16 presidential election. Atiku, who was accompanied by top PDP stalwarts to the commercial city, blamed the APC-led administration for neglecting the two critical sectors in the state. He said it would be a matter of priority to restore businesses and agriculture if voted into power in the forthcoming election. Atiku said he was overwhelmed by the huge crowd around the major streets and venue of the rally, adding that it was a confirmation that the PDP had an edge in the state. Atiku, who spotted a white flowing gown with a red cap to match, called on supporters to vote PDP in a top down arrangement. Atiku said: “Vote all our candidates from up to down to flush out APC incompetent administration.” Atiku arrived Kano in a customized luxury bus and visited places of political interest and embarked on a road show that took six hours before reaching Sani Abacha Stadium. In his speech, the National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secundus, said the huge Kano crowd was a testimony that a quiet revolution had taken place in the state. He warned those planning to rig the Kano election to shelve the idea and allow people’s will to prevail. Secondus said: “Kano has fallen; it’s a quiet revolution and no one can rig the election here.” Kwankwaso, in a speech earlier, said: “The new president is here, and you can see him in a white flowing gown with a red cap. He is one of us.” He charged them to vote all PDP candidates standing for election in all electable cadres during the general election. Kwankwaso pointed out that from what he had seen around the streets of Kano and inside the stadium, he had convinced all doubting Thomases that Kano belonged to Kwankwaso. In the meantime, no fewer than 25 persons slumped inside the Sani Abacha Stadium while waiting to catch a glimpse of Atiku. The overcrowded stadium witnessed able bodied men and women passing out temporarily at regular intervals. The incident, which was due largely to exhaustion, was fuelled by the late arrival of Atiku and his entourage to the venue. Hundreds of thousands of red cap fanatical supporters had thronged the facility as early as 10.00a.m without a backup.