ASABA – Few days to the presidential and National Assembly elections, attempted assassinations and destruction of property have taken centre stage in Delta State, especially in Ika area of the state. While the All Progressives Congress (APC) is accusing the People Democratic Party (PDP) of sending suspected thugs to assassinate its candidate in Ika Federal constituency, Sebastian Okoh, the PDP House of Assembly candidate in Ika North East State constituency, Anthony Elekeokuri, alleged that suspected APC thugs stormed his ongoing project site, destroyed the building, his father’s house and six PDP branded campaign vehicles in his premises. The development has resulted to accusation and counter accusations between the PDP and APC candidates contesting the general elections. While Elekeokuri, who represents Ika North-East constituency in the state House of Assembly and candidate of the PDP in the House of Assembly election, accused Okoh of masterminding the attack on his property, that of his father and other PDP faithful in the community, the state APC Publicity Secretary, Sylvester Imonina, said since Okoh joined APC about two years ago, some PDP blood-thirsty elements have allegedly sworn to harm him and APC supporters in Ika. ‘’To this end, criminal and tyrannical steps are regularly taken by the PDP to suffocate Okoh politically, including destruction of his billboards and mental torture to his person,’’ Imonina stated Elekeokuri, while charging his supporters to remain calm even in the face of provocations and unwarranted attacks, said he would continue to encourage peace in Umunede community, as well as all parts of Ika North-East and the state at large, as the essence of governance was for peace, security and welfare of the people. The lawmaker, while addressinga large number of residents of Umunede community, who paid him a solidarity visit following the alleged wanton destruction of his property, condemned the destructions carried out by the attackers. Narrating his ordeal, he said; “Between 9 to 10am on Saturday (16th February), they came to this my ongoing project site, shooting sporadically, destroyed a lot of things, attacked my workers and stole their money. Thereafter, they went to my father’s compound, destroyed six of my campaign branded vehicles amongst other items. “They also went to Andrew Emeri’s, Sunday Iheme’s, Chibuzor Obidike’s and Kenneth Onwuegbuosa’s houses, all PDP supporters and carried out one form of destruction or the other. They went into the town pulling down PDP bill boards. I have reported to the police and hope that they will do their job”. Some of the victims alleged that the attackers were being aided by two hilux vehicles occupied by policemen, adding that the attackers were over 50 in number, chanting APC and some war songs and inscribing ‘APC’ on the walls of the residents visited including that of Elekeokuri. Imonina condemned what he perceived as assassination attempt on the life of Okoh and other APC members by suspected Delta State PDP thugs.