Abeokuta – The Deputy Chairman (South), Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Council, Otunba Gbenga Daniel on Thursday charged Nigerians to resist any action that could derail the nation’s democracy. Daniel, who is a former governor of Ogun State, also faulted the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, for allegedly calling for the postponement of elections in Zamfara State, describing such call as a secret antic of the ruling party to rig their way into victory in the forthcoming election. He spoke in an interview with reporters in Ewekoro at the sidelines of his tour of Ogun Central and West Senatorial Districts in continuation of the campaign of PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. On the election postponement, he also stressed, “That is quite suspicious, and I hope that this is not part of the grand plan to derail the democracy, but everything is on course and I do not see any reason why anybody should be calling for any postponement. And in any case, INEC should be completely independent. “A few days ago, the chairman of INEC indicated that they are very happy with their planning and everything is going on fine as planned so, why will the Attorney General suddenly begin to engineer INEC to postpone elections? I don’t understand it, I think Nigerians should begin to raise their voice because this might be the beginning of what we have always feared, that because the government of the day thinks that they might not be able to win this election, they are now thinking of some other ways out and God will not allow it. “He has been to Ogun State a number of times, it is a thing of strategy because sometimes big rallies is a form of collecting the converted and you know our Ogun State is a very sophisticated environment, so I think we have done what we are supposed to do and that is the most important and as you can see everything is routing for Atiku and that is the most important.” Daniel, who expressed confidence that Atiku will win Saturday’s presidential election, declared that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) led by President Muhammadu Buhari had failed the country. “Clearly, the decision in front of our people is very simple, some say it is between light and darkness. Yes, that is fine! But basically, our country requires rearrangement and reorganisation and restructuring and I think that this particular job has to do with who and who has the capacity to restructure our environment and I have no doubt in my mind that Atiku Abubakar has shown that he has the capacity to restructure our country.