For Akinwunmi Ambode, the Lagos State governor, this is not the best of time. Trying to recover from the shock of losing the state governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the party leaders’ preferred candidate, Ambode now is facing an impeachment threat by members of the Lagos State House of Assembly. His offence: He has not ‘laid’ the state’s 2019 budget on the floor of the House as the lawmakers have been insisting on, while he has allegedly started to spend money from same. Ambode, who was unable to get the party’s primaries through the connivance of the lawmakers who backed the party’s leadership against him, however, insisted that the law permits him to spend from the unapproved budget up to 50 percent of the previous year in the first six months. However, observers maintain that Ambode is facing the lawmakers’ threat for allegedly refusing to sponsor Sonwo-Olu’s campaigns from the state’s coffers. But, at the heat of lawmakers’ debate on the issue, the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, advised his colleagues that Ambode should be given an opportunity to explain his actions, while the House has asked him to appear before the lawmakers. Observer, who have been following the development have been wondering if the move by the state House of Assembly to impeach Ambode was necessary, more so as he has few months to stay in office, having ruled the state in a way many consider creditably. CACOL Urges Lawmakers To Soft-Pedal On Ambode The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has however, written to the Lagos State House of Assembly to soft-pedal on the alleged plot to impeach the state governor, Akinwunmi Ambode. Debo Adeniran, CACOL Executive Chairman, in a letter to the Assembly addressed to Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, the Speaker, titled ‘Lagos House Should Soft-Pedal On Ambode’, expressed worries that majority of the lawmakers had decided to sack Ambode without even giving him a hearing, or an opportunity to defend himself. Adeniran, while commending Obasa for advising his colleagues to tarry a while before impeaching Ambode over issues relating to spending money while the budget had not been passed, even as he urged the lawmakers to respect the Speaker’s advice. He said: “We wish to implore the Honourable members to tarry for a while in line with the counsel of the Speaker Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa. We praise the Speaker for his decision to give the governor an opportunity to defend himself before the lawmakers, which is in line with the principle of fair hearing. “Although we know that the governor as the Chief Executive Officer of the state takes the responsibility for whatever is done or left undone by the Executive arm of the state government, we wish to once again draw the attention of the members to the words of the Speaker who stated, based on his knowledge of governance in the state, that: ‘The Attorney General, Commissioners For Finance, Budget and Economic Planning that ought to have advised the governor, did not do so”. He maintained that since the House and the Executive arms of government were dominated by the same party, the APC, an amicable option should be sought to settle the unfolding rift. Adeniran stressed that CACOL held the position because it believes that having run a successful partnership so far, both arms of government should avoid any friction that could be misconstrued by the people, who had hailed the style of governance exhibited by the principal characters under the current dispensation in Lagos State. He continued: “We believe that embarking on the impeachment of the governor would send negative signals capable of smearing the good name the parliament has so far earned for itself. “The House should exhibit restraint, which should be anchored on the saying that ‘Discretion is the better part of valour’. We believe that even if Ambode made mistakes so late in the life of this administration, leaders of both the Executive and Legislature should sit down and resolve whatever differences they may have. “We believe the governor has so far been an asset to Lagos State and the House should follow a more conciliatory course of action, especially considering the fact that the general elections are barely two weeks away.” Impeachment Unnecessary, Politically Motivated – Rights Activist Comrade Sunday Oladejo, Osogbo-based human rights activist, said the impeachment move is not necessary. According to him, “Governor Ambode had stepped down on second term and supported the party’s choice. This is unnecessary and out of place. “The move is political and aimed at running him down and this is because he is not part of them politically.” Lagos Lawmakers Witch-Hunting Ambode – Party Scribe Chief Omemma Ohakwuru Uhuji, Secretary, ROWA Party, Owerri North LGA of Imo State, stated: “The Lagos State governor, Akinwumi Ambode, has been embattled for some time now within the Lagos APC family. They denied the young man the ticket to run for a second term and now they are talking of impeaching him when he has just four months to vacate office as a governor. “What will the Lagos State House of Assembly gain if they eventually disgrace him out of office in the guise of impeachment? “As far as l am concerned, the House is witch-hunting him and also overheating the party. If they feel that he has committed any offence, why not draw his attention to it and then resolve it instead of dangling impeachment threat on him at this injury time of our elections?” Lawmakers Can Impeach Ambode If They Can Indict Him – Politician Sir Obidimkpa Ahaukwu Chinweotito, Chairman, Maja Party, Akwakuma Ward, Imo State, said: “If the Lagos State House of Assembly establishes an impeachable offence against Ambode, even if he has a day to vacate office, they should go ahead with it. “We are human beings with feelings. Since he lost the APC ticket to run for a second term, do you think that he is happy? He may become reckless in governance knowing very well that he will go o May 29 this year.” Logos Lawmakers Doing Their Godfather’s Bidding – Political Activist Tanimu Oderinde, a Kaduna-based political activist, added: “The Lagos State governor can best be described to be in political quagmire and how he swims out of it will depend on how he wants to end his political career. “The legislature in Lagos State is only doing the bidding of their mentor and godfather. But, they must also realise that whatever the outcome of their decision turns out to be, they must understand that Lagosians are watching, including the whole world. “The impeachment threat against Ambode is most unnecessary and at best be said to pose a political setback for the state. “They must understand that not all the state is truly APC, or even the major opposition PDP. They are setting themselves up for political crises which could lead to their ouster and even that of their leader. I will advice that caution becomes their watchword.” Political Godfathers In APC Are Unfair To Ambode – Don Dr. Gilbert Iserien Imadobor, a Benin-based university lecturer, said: “To be frank with you, l have not been to Lagos for over a year now. But, what I saw the last time I went to Lagos, I believe Ambode performed excellently well in terms of transforming Lagos. “But, I was surprised when I heard that he was not given second term ticket by his party. Well, that is Nigeria politics for you and I won’t be surprised if by tomorrow the man is impeached. “I just believe that his so-called political godfathers are not fair to him. They should allow him to complete his four years and go home. If not, the god of Lagos will visit wrath on these so-called political godfathers over the injustice being visited on the performing governor.”