The All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Assembly candidate in Ogun State, Taiwo Oludotun, has petitioned the state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, over an alleged threat to his life, and sought the protection of police for himself, workers and his family. In the petition dated February 1 2019, submitted to the Force Headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, the state capital, the engineer, turned politician said that impeccable source had told him that agents of the current administration in Ogun State were trailing him for the purpose of eliminating him. The letter read, “At exactly 7:30am on January 31st, 2019, I was in a campaign convoy with our party (APC) gubernatorial candidate for Ogun State at Elega junction, Abeokuta, when Hon. Mikhail Kazeem attacked our campaign rally, but the Nigerian Police that with us were able to stop him (Hon. Mikhail Kazeem) and his thugs from harassing us. “At about 17:00pm same day of our campaign, I received a private (hidden) number call that Hon. Mikhail Kazeem with his thugs led by Adeola Kazeem (Hon. Mikhail Kazeem’s brother) and one FAJOL are planning to attack me and destroy all my properties particularly my business premises. “Immediately at about 17:51pm on that day, I called Hon. Mikhail Kazeem to let him know that I heard about his plan to kill me and destroy my office, that he should please have a rethink, surprisingly, he sent his thugs (killer men) to my car wash at Akinolugbade Road, Abeokuta, to kill me and destroy my car wash with the cars on the premises “Fortunately for me, I have left the office, but they met my manager and security man there who had to hide in one of the offices, I was told the assassins were six, dressed in black clothes, with guns, cutlasses, axes and other dangerous weapons, destroyed cars, tyre machines, alignment machines, water tanks and carted away laptops and some cash in the office.” He alleged that some months back during the primary election of APC, he was attacked by unknown assailants and threatened not to take part in the party’s primary elections or else he would be eliminated, thus, he was surprised when he was chased away while driving and decided to hide in Lagos for weeks. The petitioner requested the Commissioner of Police to order an investigation into the threat to his life and the rising political violence in the state.