With the intervention by the CBN, it was observed that the foreign exchange market was still struggling and it took the introduction of the Investors’ and Exporters’ (I&E) Forex window by the CBN for a positive turnaround recorded so far. Not many investors gave it any chance to succeed when it was introduced but, launched by the CBN in April 2017, while the I&E window has attracted nearly $60 billion to the economy, and one of the key instruments that had helped the stability of the local currency against other currencies. The weekly dollar interventions by the bank are also expected to help in stabilising the local currency. The CBN also injected over $10.97 billion into the foreign exchange market between January and October, last year to defend the nation’s currency, the naira, against other major currencies, including the United States dollar. The $10.97 billion was based on weekly compilation of amounts released by the apex bank to boost liquidity in the foreign exchange market. The CBN’s interventions helped to keep the local currency stable and are expected to continue in the year. A report by FSDH Research said that prior to the I&E Forex window introduction in April, last year, the market and exchange rates were in turmoil. However, in a dramatic turn of events, the acute shortage of forex, which businesses and individuals grappled with, witnessed an unprecedented improvement, with banks and Bureaux de Change (BDCs) now desperately looking for forex buyers. The FSDH Research Monthly Economic and Financial Market Outlook, said  the  positive  domestic  and  external  environment  will  further lead  to  external  reserves accretion  in  the  short-term, a development the report predicted will further stabilise  the foreign exchange rate. The CBN injected over $10.97 billion into the foreign exchange market between January and October to defend the nation’s currency, the naira, against other major currencies, including the United States dollar. The $10.97 billion was based on weekly compilation of amount released by the apex bank to boost liquidity in the foreign exchange market. The apex bank usually intervenes in the foreign exchange market by injecting liquidity about three times a week. The intervention was provided to authorised dealers in the wholesale segment of the market as well as other sectors of the economy such as agriculture, manufacturing and the Small and Medium Enterprise segment. Customers that required foreign exchange for invisible things such as tuition fees, medical bills and Basic Travel Allowance are also allocated funds from the intervention. An analysis of the weekly intervention shows that the apex bank injected about $1.2 billion in January, while February, March and April had $1.49 billion, $1.38 billion and $1.03 billion, respectively. The CBN’s intervention in the month of May was estimated at about $1.06 billion; June, $1.29 billion, while July had $970 million among others. Before I&E Forex window Before the introduction of the forex window, the local equities market and the foreign exchange (forex) market were in shambles. The All Share Index (ALSI) was continuously shrinking and the Naira weakened against other currencies, especially the dollar. The I&E window then turn out to be attractive, making many of the business concerns to take another look at their exit from the country. The introduction of the window was followed by continuous interventions by the CBN which enabled banks and BDC operators to meet forex demand at the retail end of the market. Thus, the window turn out to be a life-saving pill for the domestic economy as it has attracted about $60 billion into the market, enhanced transparency and made forex available to the end-users. The operations of companies, especially manufacturing, has been on the upward swing with an improvement in inflation figures as well as equities market performance. According to the CBN Director in charge of Financial Markets, Alvan Ikoku, the “Investors’ & Exporters’ FX Window” is boosting liquidity in the forex market and ensuring timely execution and settlement for eligible transactions by all parties. Before the stability in the forex market and Naira, the economy witnessed a depressed Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, which culminated in a recession in 2016. “There was also rising inflation, which peaked at almost 19 per cent in January 2017 and a persistently rising unemployment rate to 14.23 per cent in 2016 fourth quarter from 6.41 per cent as at 2014 fourth quarter. There was also a significant depreciation of the exchange rate, reaching N525 to $1 in February 2017 and witnessed a fast depletion of the reserves which was drained down from about $23.6 billion in October 2016 from as high as $40 billion in January, 2014. “The I&E Forex window, seen as a ‘willing buyer, willing-seller window’, allows foreign investors to bring in dollars into the economy at any price of their choice, provided they could find buyers at such rate. The figure at the window has also impacted positively on the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI).” Bismarck Rewane, a Lagos-based economist and Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company Limited, described the introduction of the I&E forex window as the best policy implemented by the CBN. Speaking on the issue, CBN’s Director, Corporate Communications, Isaac Okorafor, reiterated the bank’s commitment to ensure adequate forex supply to genuine customers to achieve the goal of forex rates convergence. Managing Director, Afrinvest West Africa Plc, Ike Chioke, said the window has won the confidence of foreign investors. He said the window attracted foreign investors’ appetite for Nigerian assets leading to impressive appreciation in the equities market and stabilising the Naira BDCs Role However, the BDCs have over the years remained a potent monetary policy tool for exchange rate stability. They have helped the government in creating over 30,000 jobs for Nigerians, thereby reducing the unemployment rate in the country. The BDCs have continued, and will continue to make forex available to the critical retail end users thereby deepening forex access in the country. The BDCs have also been enhancing price discovery and transparency in the foreign exchange market. The operations of BDCs have equally raised the level of investors’ confidence and Diaspora remittances in the country. For instance, the World Bank data showed that Nigerians living abroad (Diaspora) sent home $22 billion in 2017, the highest in the Sub-Saharan region, and the fifth highest in the world. This represents 10 per cent increase when compared to the $19.64 billion sent home in 2016. Gwadabe said the Diaspora remittance figures could double in few years if the CBN gives the BDCs all the necessary support as being requested. “While we commend the CBN for reviewing the rate at which the dollar is sold to BDCs thereby creating uniform competitive environment between the banks and BDCs, we also like Oliver Twist, ask for a better regulation that gives BDCs more time to concentrate on their core business of making forex available to retail-end users and attracting huge investment inflows into the domestic economy,” he demanded. Some Stakeholders in the maritime sub-sector of the nation’s economy have chosen to remain indifference on the perceived stability of the nation’s currency, the Naira, saying it makes little or no difference as the exchange rate per Dollar still remain very high. Although some of them agreed that the stability remains a major plus for the projection among the business class, others feel that it had not reduced cost in terms of prices of goods and services.