Temidayo Akinsuyi and Samuel Ogidan Lagos/Abuja – Atiku Abubakar, former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has cautioned the military against dabbling into politics, especially the forthcoming general elections slated for February 16 and March 2. He gave the warning on Tuesday in Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, during the PDP presidential and governorship rally in the state. According to him, “The military signed to defend and protect the country, not to defend an individual, as no person is a god. “Their quick response should be to tackle Boko Haram in Borno and the entire northern region where they are terrorising Nigerians. “Muhammadu Buhari, please don’t use the military to terrorise the states you don’t like. The military are to protect the territorial integrity of the country.” Atiku also told the police, the Department of State Services (DSS), and other security agencies to be neutral during the polls. The former vice president warned that any government that draws the police, army, Civil Defence into politics does not mean well for the personnel. He said: “Our security services, you have no business to interfere with our political process, that is not your work. Your work is to make sure that there is peace, law and order. “It is not your business to interfere in our political process; this is not your constitutional responsibility, at all. Your constitutional responsibility is to make sure that we are all safe. “Any government that draws the security agencies, the police, the army, the Civil Defence – that government is doing more harm to your career, is doing more harm to your patriotism, and more harm to yourself. “Don’t accept that, don’t get involved, allow us to choose the leaders we want to choose and to elect the people we want to elect, it is not your business who we elect at all. “So, I want to caution the security services not to get involved because there are many of us who are also security officers; so, don’t come and tell us bullshit.” Atiku said his rally in Taraba State was just homecoming, adding that it was the first time the people of the North Eastern region would be having a presidential candidate. “Will you go and vote someone from another region?” Atiku asked. Speaking further, he said the major problem of Taraba and the North Eastern states was insecurity. “I will provide security,” he pledged. He also promised to complete the hydroelectric power project on the Mambilla Plateau in Sardauna Local Government Area of Taraba State. “I want to promise you that the much awaited Mambilla Hydro Electric Power, we will complete it so that you will not have problem of power whatsoever. “I also want to promise you, your federal roads will be taken care of. Taraba is one of the most endowed states in this country, we are going to exploit it, the natural resources which is in abundance in Taraba, so that you can have prosperity, so that we can bring employment, so that we can create jobs for our teeming men and women. “Everything about the Mambilla hydropower project, so far, is a scam. I will reconstruct it and every Nigerian will benefit from it, if you elect me as Nigeria’s president.” Uche Secondus, the PDP National Chairman, urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct a credible election without taking sides. “With the crowd I have seen here, Taraba State is 100 percent PDP. All the people watching this rally on the television, Instagram, Twitter, Google, and WhatsApp will agree that Taraba is PDP. “INEC should be very careful in their responses. This election cannot be rigged. If you rig it, you (INEC) will invite crisis, and we don’t want crisis. “If INEC can conduct free and fair polls, the people will accept whoever emerges, and the country will be peaceful, and that is what we want,” Secondus said. Governor Darius Ishaku, governorship candidate of the PDP in Taraba, assured Atiku of victory, saying: “Taraba is for Atiku.” He added: “I have toured the nooks and crannies of Taraba for my re-election campaign. And everywhere I went to campaign, the people all know Atiku. This is because he had traversed the state during the Gongola days. “Atiku will give the people jobs, tackle poverty, and revitalise Nigeria’s economy. “The APC has failed Nigerians and Atiku is the answer. Atiku, carry go.”