Saki, one of the prominent towns in Oyo has been without a King in the last few years due to seeming unending crisis among the heirs to the throne. In this interview, Chief Michael Koleoso, a politician of repute, who bestrides Oyo political terrain like a colossus and an illustrious son of Sakiland spoke with MOHAMMED SHOSANYA on development in Saki and what should be done to position it to global reckoning. Excerpts: As a respected father of modern Saki land,would you say you are pleased with the way things are in that town today? I am not happy. I am not happy in the sense we are lucky to have a town that his divinely blessed unfortunately the indigenes are not doing enough to develop the town.It is my prayer that in no distant future we would have reason to come together to brainstorm on how to move Saki forward. I make bold to say that after Ibadan,which the capital of Oyo state, Saki is the next town in all spheres. Saki has been without a king for six years running. What are you doing to ensure that the town has a king? Any time the thought of my town come up as a town without a king it does not make me happy. It appears the indigenes of Saki have not worked together as a team to give the town a befitting king.You will notice that after the demise of the Late Okere, Oba Kilani , a lot of thing has been happening. I understand some Princes are still occupying the palace. For instance, the present Akarigbo of Shagamu,was nominated by the well educated people from that town and hithertho heaven has not fallen. They wrote a letter to the then governor,who acceded to their request.I don’t see why Saki people can’t meet over such issue and present a common front to the governor on what they want or who they want as the next Okere .If that is done, I don’t think, the governor will turn down such request. You had been at the fore front in attracting several developmental projects to Saki land,but it appears there are no such development projects of note going on in the town anymore . What would you say is responsible for this? Anytime I think about Saki as far developmental issue is concern, I feel very sad in the sense that no new project have been coming to the town.Besides,the existing ones are are in a dilapidated form. For example, look at what they have turned OSADEP into. It is like a ghost to itself. Take a look at the Technical College.Apart from the fact nothing has been done to improve on the structure when we left there in 1983, people have encroached on the land by building illegal structures therein .The same fate befell the stadium,which was the only stadium approved when we were in government, and was located in Saki.The stadium is still as it was when we left office in 1983. If government is not doing anything for us, then, the indigenes of that town should be able to do things by ourselves. There is nothing wrong if we come together as a people to complete most of these projects after all it is our project. Of recent I was told that a command science was given to us,but hitherto that project has not seen the light of the day simply because the Oyo-state government has not given its nod to the project. Must we wait for the government, can’t we as a people harness resources together to get that project started?. A memo could be written and signed by prominent indigene of Saki to the governor on the need for him to see how dear such a project is to our heart. You muted the idea of Saki day 19 years ago.But surprisingly since then the idea seemed to be dying until this second attempt.What do you think is responsible for this development and how can this idea be sustained? When I was commissioner, the idea of Saki day just came to my mind one day and I discussed same with Governor Bola Ige,who said the idea was a good one. The first Saki day recorded a huge success. It baffles me that since 2000 no attempt has been made at organizing another one. People said I was able to do it because I was in government then, but I believe many people have been on government position, after I had left office. So I asked the national body of Saki Parapo at a recent meeting what they wanted to say about this and that 19 years after, none of such thing has happened again. It was the challenge I threw at them that triggered them into this, but it was good that they have taken up the gauntlet. The chairman was here this morning and I told him my mind and made some suggestions to them which I believed if strictly followed we shall make a lot of money. And it is a fora like this that we can use to develop Saki. I advised them to open account, which they said they had done, and after the anniversary, the money we made can be used to construct two to three roads. I also advised them to get a good contractor, attached the project to a bank, so that people will continue to pay into the bank account from where thecontractor will continue to draw his money. What is your advice to Saki people? My parting word is that Saki people should know what they are doing. We should not underrate ourselves; we should come together and build that town. Nobody will build that town for us. If we are lucky to have an Oke- Ogun indigene as Governor, I know a lot of good things will come. We should also have it at the back of our mind that God that created us didn’t create us equal. We can’t be equal. You recently announced your retirement from partisan politics, but reappeared on the scene with African Democratic Congress (ADC). What informed your decision to return to partisan politics? In November 2014, it was in news that I was resigning from partisan politics for personal reasons and I have kept to my words since then. But all along I have been given advice to some people especially those that came to seek my views on certain issue. I decided to return fully because I am not happy with the way things are, especially with my people in Oke-Ogun. Many years back, when I was commissioner for Works, one can drive from Iseyin to Saki at whatever speed it pleases you. I made it a point of duty that that road should be maintained year-in-year out. I put a grade in Iseyin and another one at Saki for this purpose. Today travelling from Ibadan to Iseyin from Iseyin to Saki is terrible.The inter-town roads and the ones are in bad shape. In terms of employment, nothing tangible is being done at that and I asked somebody recently, on the number of permanent secretary we have from Oke-Ogun and I was told we have one only. Of recent I was made to understand that three permanent secretaries were nominated and none came from Oke-Ogun. This government is in its eight years now, I continue to ask myself,does this government made any budgetary allocation to OSADEP years; our institutions, our roads etc, in the last eight years. I doubt, if such was made, if was made at all, it was not executed. I decided that something needs to be done and that is why I returned to partisan politics . I hope this time around, our people will know the truth and the truth will set them free. In 2015 I went to Saki parapo to let my people know that they should be wise in casting their votes, my advice to them was dismissed, they went to town and started saying all sort of things but I am happy today I have been vindicated. What are you doing to ensure that an Oke-Ogun indigene emerged as Oyo governor in 2019? That has been paramount issue agitating my mind. I believe sincerely that until an Oke- Ogun indigene ruled Oyo state, that part of state wont develop. As a matter of fact it is one of the reasons I returned to partisan politics. It is my fervent prayers that whoever emerged asgovernor next year would be somebody who have listening ears. It doesn’t matter from which part of the state the candidate hails from, my prayer is that we have somebody who has listening ears. Until that is done it will be difficult for Oke-Ogun to have a smooth journey at development.