Ilorin – Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have explained reasons the party is seeking, through the coming election, to clip the wings of Senate President Bukola Saraki in the nation’s politics. The leaders, including Bola Tinubu and national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, said the party is fighting Saraki to discipline him for his alleged treachery and to liberate his state, Kwara, from alleged political bondage he took the state into. The leaders spoke in Ilorin, the state capital, on Monday at the party’s presidential campaign rally held at the Ilorin Metropolitan Square. Tinubu, who is the national leader of the APC, described Saraki as a traitor and a politician lacking in virtue, saying the party intended to discipline him with a loss at the poll. The APC leader, who said that the party was not fighting the political dynasty Saraki’s father, Olusola established, explained that the party wanted to use the election as a celebration of freedom for the people of the state from the alleged anti-people politics of Saraki. He stated: “It’s been a long time they have been deceiving you. Bukola has been deceiving you. We are not here to fight Baba Saraki’s family, because Gbemisola is here and she is his daughter. “But today we have come to discipline Bukola. He is a traitor. He is a slave master. This campaign is therefore the celebration of your freedom; it is the celebration of the falling Berlin Wall of the politics of Kwara; it is the end of the oligarchy, the end of the emperor that didn’t exist until recently.” In his own remarks, Oshiomhole said he was anxiously waiting for the outcome of Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections to celebrate the fall of Saraki from the control tower of Kwara politics. “We have come to celebrate the end of Bukola’s tenure. When I saw the crowd on the roadside and listened to what they were saying, I concluded that indeed the end has come for him. I cannot wait for Saturday to see Kwara people celebrate their new freedom. “It will be a day for Kwara people and young politicians to realise that the evil political godson has done to a political godfather will be meted back to him. For 16 years, Bukola has overbooked your indebtedness.” “For Bukola, politics is all about juicy jobs; that was his complaint here in Ilorin the day we showed him the way out of APC. “He said out of 200 jobs none was given to him and Dogara. “Everything that has a beginning must have an end. The time of the oppressor is over. That is the case of Kwara and the case of Bukola.” Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state has condemned the APC leaders over their verbal attacks on the personality of Saraki. The party, in a statement by its state publicity secretary, Tunde Ashaolu, wondered why the APC had decided to make Saraki its campaign point instead of telling the electorate the programmes it had for them. Ashaolu said: “The outburst of Oshiomhole is understood because they face imminent defeat in the forthcoming general elections. They are attacking Saraki because he has planned the APC’s down fall through robust and purposeful campaign across the country. “Let APC tell Nigerians the programmes they have for them. They have woefully failed in implementing their campaign promises of 2015. “Nigerians are wise people, they cannot be deceived again. From President Muhammadu Buhari’s speech today, it is clear that he does not have a grasp of the issues affecting the state. “Ditto for the factional APC gubernatorial candidate in the state, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. “We are happy that the people of Kwara State, who Saraki is toiling for day and night, appreciated his efforts and have decided to vote en masse for the PDP in the coming elections in the state. “Only this morning, the organised labour in the state declared their support for the PDP, signing an MoU to vote for all the PDP candidates in the general elections.”