Monsuru Shoyombo, the President of the Community Youth Movement of Nigeria (CYMN), Secretary of the Coalition for Affordable and Regular Electricity (CARE) and Publicity Secretary, Socialists Party of Nigeria (SPN). In this interview with ISAAC ASABOR, he speaks on the postponement of the General Elections and the way forward. Excerpts: As one of the key stakeholders in the forthcoming elections, what is your take on the postponement of the presidential and national assembly, governorship and the states assembly elections which were originally scheduled to hold on February 16 and March 2, 2019, respectively? To me, for INEC to say that the postponement was on grounds of inadequate preparation is difficult to understand in view of the fact that N189.2bn budgeted for the elections were approved as far back as October 2018. In fact, considering the budget, the excuse given by INEC can be said to be flimsy. Ordinarily, such budget would have been enough for the electoral body to carry out its constitutional mandate as an umpire to the highly expected elections, and ensure free and fair elections. It is highly degrading and extremely nauseating for the masses who have prepared to vote for candidates of their choice to wake up with full energy on the Election Day to hear that the election has been postponed in just less than 7hours to the election. Most annoying in the postponement is that the INEC chairman has assured Nigerians several times that the elections would hold according to plan. It would be recalled that while giving the breakdown of how the N189.2bn would be spent, that Prof Yakubu said N134.4bn would be for election operations cost; N27.5bn for election technological cost; N22.6bn for election administrative cost and N4.6bn for contingency and miscellaneous expenses. Does your response imply that there is no justification for the postponement? Yes, there is no justification for the postponement. The reason why I am condemning the postponement is that the INEC chairman had for few days before the postponement assured Nigerians that preparation has being made for the elections. Giving the weight of his several assurances ahead of the now postponed elections, there was no justification for any postponement because all matters including logistics have been considered. The implications of the postponement is that people’s morale concerning election will likely become very low in the form of apathy towards the election even as more money to tackle logistics as stated by INEC would be required. It is obvious that many people will not participate in the elections again as a result of disappointment. This is because loss of confidence and trust in the electoral umpire has already set in. To your view do you see any ulterior motive in the postponement? Yes, there is ulterior motive. More importantly, the ruling party cannot exonerate itself from the postponement; it is part of their plots to buy more time in order to resolve their lingering cases of questionable primaries in both Rivers and Zamfara States respectively so that they can field candidates in those states in order to boost their results at the polls. Are you not aware that the presidency is not pleased with the INEC chairman regarding the postponement? I am aware that the presidency has publicly condemned the chairman’s action. The postponement clearly shows gross incompetence of INEC under the chairmanship of Prof. Yakub Mamood who has ostensively displayed the lack of genuine capacity to conduct free and fair elections even with the huge budget allocated to his office for the purpose of the election. In the face of the seemingly negligence of duty and crass incompetence, we call for immediate resignation of the INEC chairman and his replacement with a competent person. There should not be further delay or postponement of the general election, the election should be free and fair.