Barr. Emmanuel Enoidem is the National Legal Adviser of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with IDONGESIT ASHAMERI in Uyo, he speaks latest developments in the party especially in his home state of Akwa Ibom. Excerpts: Your closeness to Akpabio as his commissioner then made lots of people believe you would join him to APC, why did you stay back when he defected?. That is because I am Emmanuel Enoidem. Secondly, I have something I live for. My life was founded on some basic principles that cannot be violated. One of them is consistency; others are sincerity and commitment to things I believe in. I am that politician who does just believe in only winning elections but on strict principles which cannot be swept away by politics no matter the colouration. Fourthly is that we are running a party system and I am a foundation member of PDP in Akwa Ibom State as far back as 1998 and I don’t believe that there is any difference between all the political parties, politicians only run from pillar to post in the name of joining political party. As at August 2018 when Akpabio left the PDP, there was no party that was as organic, organised, and experienced as PDP. It is the longest political party that has been in power in the history of Nigeria without changing its name or logo since 1999. Akpabio was not a co-founder of PDP, he only joined us in 2002 and by God’s grace, he became a commissioner, later became a Governor and now a senator. I was already in the party when he joined us and became a commissioner. When he became Governor in 2007, it was by sheer grace of God. In 2015 when we lost the presidential election, the political moral of PDP members was very low, I went round electronic media houses in the state to talk and boost the morale of our members and people ask me if losing the centre will now forced me to APC, I said no. What informed your response? I don’t like APC’s logo and symbol; the broom. I can never dump the umbrella for the broom. I also know that APC as a party is an assemblage of strange bed fellows. It is one organisation that will not stand the test of time. If the APC loses the 2019 election, the party would be in shambles. PDP was like a sleeping lion at the point we lost election. When I was opportune to become the National Legal Adviser, I knew that we are going to wake up the lion to roar again. So, when Akpabio left, it was a surprise to everybody because I don’t believe in that type of politics where one is always looking for a comfort zone. I am the type of politician who is comfortable under any situation. I am not a politician who wants to perpetually remain in power and I see no reason Akpabio should join APC apart from selfishness, no other explanation. I am not a selfish person to the point of jettisoning my ideals just because I want to join the ruling party at the centre. I told people in 2015 that even if Akapbio and Udom Emmanuel leave the PDP to APC that I will stay back. Today nothing has changed to make me change that decision. There was no basis or reasons to even make me contemplate joining Akpabio to APC. On 25thof December 2017, I went to see Akpabio at his country home before I could even inform him of my mission, he told me that things were normal, that he wanted to leave the party and I told him that such words should not come from a leader and that he should not allow others to hear what he told me, because he would have no role to play in APC outside following them around with Agbada and as I said he has no role to play there up till now. Nigeria of today would have been President Buhari on one side and Akpabio on the other side as the leader of opposition in Nigeria. The two of them would have been the most serious politicians in the country but he abandoned the role of opposition leadership in Nigeria and succumb to pressure. The same pressure is being mounted on everybody. I don’t know why he succumbed and abandoned his role as opposition leader to be doing nothing presently, is that what I would have followed him to do? I told him as a leader in Akwa Ibom politics that his departure will bring out dislocation in the state politics and that is what we are seeing now with the attendant insults heaped on him daily by PDP supporters. They cannot comprehend how a man can serve as a commissioner for six years, Governor for eight years and Senator for 3/12 years and stand on podium to criticise the party he benefited from immensely. It is unheard of and not something that can be condoned, any outrage against Akpabio today is in order. There is a growing concern that the Ruling APC Government may employ federal might to wrestle power from PDP in Akwa Ibom. What is your take? It is a mind game. They don’t have the numerical strength to win election in Akwa Ibom, the highest number APC can get during election in the state is 30% percent. The 30% can never torpedo the 70% will of the people. Even if they bring in Army Generals here for the election. Some of us had been earmarked to be arrested before the election and we are waiting for them. They are free to come with their Army, DSS, Navy and what have you but they are not winning election in Akwa Ibom State. It is loud and clear that they will fail, they don’t have the number and Akwa Ibom people will not be intimidated during the general election, this is not Ekiti or Osun election. I have heard that there will generate insecurity to get election postponed here to a later date, but even if it happen we will still win the APC, any time, any day and any moment. It is very shameful for those who have benefitted from the people of the state in the past to contemplate using the federal might against them in the coming election. It is wrong for any person who had led the state with the support of the people in the past to contemplate arresting his people or cow them because of election. It is the highest form of cowardice and shamelessness for anybody to bring security agencies here because he wants to seize power doing election. The person is contemplating military coup not election. If they have the number why looking for self help. Election is supposed to be a civil responsibility in a peaceful environment where voters exercise their franchise, any other thing is a military coup. One of the reasons Akpabio gave for leaving was that Governor Emmanuel was not fair to his Ikot Ekpene Senatorial Districts in project execution, what is your position on this?. Is his name Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District?. He was looking for excuses. Akpabio has no reason to leave PDP apart from the fact that he wants to be seen behind powers at the federal level. We gave Akpabio senate minority leader in 2015 but he never performed the functions of that office for one day till he left on 8th of August, 2018. He was a Governor for eight years nobody controlled or stage managed him for those years. So he should have allowed Emmanuel to operate his Government. Attah did not dictate to Akpabio as Governor. I ask him Akpabio in January, 2018 in the presence of the Deputy Governor to tell us who ever manipulated him. I told him to go and face the responsibility God has firmly put on his shoulder at the National level. I told him that he is no more a state but National leader. It is not the issue of Emmanuel not developing Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, there are other districts in Akwa Ibom State also. There are places Akpabio had no opportunity to develop and Udom Emmanuel needs to touch those areas even in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District to be objective, Akpabio did not touch Ikono and Ini Council Areas in his developmental strides. Did he perform when he was Governor of the state? Yes he performed as a Governor but he couldn’t have touched everywhere and Udom Emmanuel is doing those ones. Akpabio did nothing in Oruk Anam Council Area which is in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District and Emmanuel is working there, is it not part of Ikot Ekpene senatorial district and Akwa Ibom State. It is not because Emmanuel did not touch Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District that informs his departure. I can say authoritatively that Udom Emmanuel have been a good successor to Godswill Akpabio in all ramification. He protected the former Governor. The most important part of a leader is to cover the back of his predecessor Emmanuel has discharged that responsibility very well beyond expectation, to the extent of filling cases in court to protect his predecessor, there is nothing anybody can do beyond that. In terms of projects continuation, for those he can convince himself to do, he has done them. For those he has not convinced himself to do he has not done, just like Akpabio could not convince himself to do the Science Park left behind by Ex-Governor Attah. Emmanuel is continuing projects like dualised road to Ikot Ekpene from Uyo and the four star Hotel in Ikot Ekpene etc. You must give a Governor or anybody in the position of Authority some level of discretion to exercise. It was alleged by APC leaders that your party is importing thugs in preparation for the 2019 elections, is this necessary?? PDP is on ground in the state and has no reason to bring in machineries for election, the foundation of the heated polity today is the famous “warsaw” saw and war saw “warsaw” by their leader in the state. So if blames are to be apportioned for insecurity in the state it should go to the APC leaders. We have heard that they are planning to come under the cover of official security to bring in militants that will carry arms against the PDP. They have confessed to it and are planning to implement it. If the PDP loses the presidential election do you see your party retaining the state? Of course! We lost the centre in 2015 and still won in the state. In spite of all the noise they are making, my personal intelligence shows that the supporters of the APC in the state are not more than 25% to 30% of the voting population. It is not possible for them to get more than that. APC will lose election at the centre if you are following the trend in Nigeria politics.