The Southern Youth Leaders Forum, which consists of leaders of various youth groups,  civil society groups, trade unions and voluntary youth organizations from the Seventeen Southern States has warned the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and its Presidential candidate,  Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, against attempts at dragging the Nigerian Army into its ongoing war of words between itself and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The group described as worrisome, a recent statement by the PDP and its Presidential candidate where they said the Nigerian Army lack power to deploy its troops,  for elections. While also amongst other things also calling on the Nigerian Military to reject orders from the President and Commander-In-Chief. The youth leaders said such statement by the PDP is a clear attempt, to drag the Nigeria military into the mucky water of politics. At a press conference in Lagos on Thursday, the group through its leaders, Comrade Oladimeji Odeyemi,  for the Southwest States, Engr, Dr Fidelis Nze (KSM) for the Southeast States and Barr John Atani for the Southsouth States, stated that PDP’s attack on the constitutional duty of the Army, is  aimed at unnecessarily heating up the polity and  instigating civil disturbances during the election. According to the Southern Youth leaders, , demanding that security be lessen at a crucial election such as the forthcoming one, is politics taken too far and quite mischievous, for a party, which for sixteen years used the military, to protect the citizens during elections in the country. The groups alleged that PDP only aim is to smear the reputation and integrity of the Army leadership in its choice of attack on the  Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai. The unfortunate attacks on General Tukur Buratai by some unscrupulous politicians, is an attempt to undermine our nation’s military and security policies. The groups further advised Nigerians to be weary of the campaign of calumny by the PDP as the main intent is to promote insecurity and encourage violence, during the general elections, in other to criticize the result of the elections. The group also said it needs to remind Nigerians, that the Nigeria Army under the leadership of Lt. General  Tukur Buratai has catapulted professionalism to the point where its institutional ethos and mission has seen significant improvement in the last three years. Discerning Nigerians and every right thinking person on earth will at this point in time be able to compare  PDP agitation, to the reality on ground, in term of the performance of our military. The group urged Nigerians especially the youth to reject being used as instruments of violence, and to cooperate with the military, especially the Nigerian Army as it gives support to the Nigerian Police and other sister security agencies during the elections, in order to entrench peace and tranquillity throughout the electioneering process.