LAGOS – As Nigerians go to the polls on Saturday for the Presidential and National Assembly elections, all eyes are in Benue State as one of the states where there may be upsets. Governor Samuel Ortom’s defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led to jostling among major political parties to take control of the state and win legislative seats. One of the seats being keenly contested in Benue State is the Benue South Senatorial District seat of which Mike Onoja, Abba Moro, Steven Lawani are the three major contestants. The race for the seat entered a fiery stage recently when the Social Democratic Party (SDP) led by business mogul and retired Federal Permanent Secretary, Chief Mike Onoja, stormed Otukpo in a historic rally. Addressing the crowd, Onoja, affirmed a resolve to end impunity and to dethrone “the cabal” who control politics in Benue South. He accused the cabal of freely hiring and firing loyalists, distributing political offices at will. He said: “The days handful individuals decide what happens in Benue South are over. I have come to terminate the reign of the cabal and to start an era of developmental politics for the economic and political survival of our land.” Onoja, known to possess the political will and paraphernalia to put his threat to work, will need electoral victory to actualise this. As a late starter, people believe that he needs more than tact and wisdom to pull through an election in which Abba Moro, the immediate past Minister of Interior, is leveraging on his grassroots reach to win. Moro emerged the PDP  senatorial candidate after a controversial primary in October which Onoja also featured. Faulting the outcome, Onoja dumped PDP to pick the SDP ticket, ready to face Moro for the seat. Onoja and Moro will contend with Steven Lawani, the APC candidate and immediate past deputy governor of Benue State. Aside experience, Moro counts on the PDP’s popularity in the area to win as well as his closeness to David Mark, the former Senate President. Mark is backing Moro to preserve his image, remain relevant and sustain PDP in power. How this will translate to Moro’s victory is yet to seen, due to people’s perception of their performance while in office. Mark’s political image is believed to be crumbling as people believe that Onoja is leading a crusade for a new order in Benue South. No wonder there were jubilation over Onoja’s plan to succeed Mark in the Red Chamber. Onoja nearly succeeded Mark in 2015, but stepped down during the PDP primary. Whatever influenced his retreat then is gone and Onoja is determined to grab the seat. He said: “I am going to Senate to work. There is so much to do in Benue South after 20 years of PDP’s under performance.” Onoja wields a remarkable political, which can attract lasting dividends to the area. In the 2007 PDP governorship primary, he emerged top in Benue South, but lost due to what people term “votes donation” at the state level. Among those he defeated in 2007 were Moro and Lawani. Will this change in 2019 due to his growing popularity over Lawani and Moro? The meeting of Onoja, Moro and Lawani at the 2019 poll has led to political alignments and late night meetings in Benue South among political leaders who see themselves as the power brokers. The call for fresh beginning and departure from old order in Benue South seems clear and strong. As a cabinet minister, Moro was accused of being selective and was said to secure employments for only people from certain political wards to the detriment of the others. Will this play a part in determining his fate in this election? Moro, Lawani and Onoja may face difficult task of defeating each other as they have been there for a long time and know each other well, even as the people know them. The three have to convince the people of Benue South why they should be voted for. Who will carry the day? Will it be Moro, Onoja or Lawani?