AWKA – International Society for Human Rights and the Rule of Law (Intersociety) based in Onitsha, Anambra State, has cautioned those calling for the removal of Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to tread softly so as not to play into a pre-planned arrangement, alleging that the Presidency was behind the call for the removal. In a statement signed by Comrade Emeka Umeagbalasi, the Chairman, Board of Directors of the group, said the calls for the removal of the chairman was counter-productive. Part of the statement reads, “Therefore, we see the sustained calls for the removal of INEC Chairman as not only counter-productive but also presidentially oiled. “As correctly alleged by the leadership of CUPP, the cabal in the presidency of Nigeria has long thrown caution, decency and uprightness to the wind and reduced the country’s democracy to milito-electoral college system where anything goes with sustained alacrity. “The present cabalistic presidency of Nigeria is so misdirected, unrepentant and remorseless that it can wake up one morning and announce a serving Major General as the new Chairman of INEC. Under circumstances Nigerians have found themselves, appointment of the likes of Amina Zakari as ‘new Acting Chairman of INEC’ is a child’s play compared to what the administration is capable of doing.” It said having carefully followed and studied the events that have unfolded since the sudden shift in the date of the presidential poll, it is safely correct to assert that Nigerians have been brainwashed into singling out INEC and its leadership for condemnation; leaving out the Presidency and its lopsidedly composed security forces. Intersociety said, “It is an established fact that the central word responsible for the failed presidential poll is ‘sabotage’ or ‘presidential sabotage.’ For instance, INEC does not control the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Nigeria Police, the SSS and the paramilitaries; but the presidency does. “It was not INEC that diverted sensitive air-borne polling materials meant for one corner of the country to another or have them grounded without their timely delivery. “It was not INEC, too, that wanted to stagger the poll and come up with Osun State template; which was vehemently opposed by the commission.” “There have been reported security lapses prior to the botched poll, leading to burning of INEC materials including Card Readers, PVCs and so on particularly in Plateau, Abia and Anambra State.” The group then advised that Nigerians must rise to the occasion and reason properly; avoiding falling into the traps of the country’s desperate Presidency and its ruling Party. Part of that is that “Nigerians must disassociate themselves from calling for the removal of INEC Chairman and instead focus their forensic and thinkable attention at ensuring that all plans to rig the all- important presidential poll are thwarted,” it added.