LAGOS – Justice Uhuegbu, national president association for good governance, national convener youths arise initiative and a Human Rights lawyer has said that the country security apparatus has not adequately prepared for this year’s elections going by the slow pace in organising workshops and sensitisation programmes that will equip their men for the task ahead. The lawyer, who spoke with Saturday INDEPENDENT on Friday said that it was unfortunate that few days to the general elections, the security agencies have not been seen organising workshops and sensitisation programmes for its officers, noting that the agencies were supposed to have been exposed to training at least three weeks to the election. He noted that with the allegation against the police during the Ekiti and Osun elections, the officers would have been adequately prepared through these workshops to convince Nigerians that they were prepared for the special assignment they would be required to execute during the elections. Adding, “It is very easy for the security agencies to tell us that they are ready. I can tell you that with what is on ground I am not sure that they are ready. We saw the acting inspector general of police deploring officers to the 36 States of the country and Abuja that alone was not enough. They are supposed to have been workshops and sensitisation programmes, training on rule of law, in respect of the elections, three weeks to the elections.” Talking about indictments of officers of security agencies, he said “We know of accusations against the military in particular by civil society organisations (CSOs) on Human Rights violation of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and also allegations against the police during Ekiti and Osun gubernatorial elections. All these are the things that would have motivated the agencies to do a thorough job on their men and convince Nigerians that indeed they are ready. We know our style of doing things in this country, the fire brigade approach, where we wait until the eleventh hour before we give attention to important matters,” he said.