Temidayo Akinsuyi and Tony Ezimakor Lagos / Abuja – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday said it has achieved 95 percent configuration of the smart card readers to be deployed for the presidential and National Assembly elections on Saturday. It also refuted reports that the Department of State Services (DSS) had invited one of its national commissioners for questioning. Briefing newsmen on Tuesday in Abuja on the commission’s preparations for the postponed national elections, Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, promised that the configuration of the card readers would be completed today. “You will recall in my last address to stakeholders on Saturday I mentioned that we intended to deploy card readers and we identified very clear timeline for the delivery of the card readers. “I want to report that as at last night, we have achieved 95 percent configuration of the 180,000 card readers and this process is going to be completed early morning on Wednesday, one day ahead of schedule. “We also told stakeholders that in response to appeal to the commission to extend the period of campaign by political parties, the commission yesterday also met with party leaders and extended the period for campaign to midnight of Thursday. “Because of the extension of state elections taking place on March 9, the commission hereby extends the campaign for that election to Thursday before the election date.” The electoral body said none of its official was invited by the security agency. It was rumoured in the morning that the security agency had summoned Dr. Ikechukwu Ibeanu, National Commissioner on Logistics, for questioning. Yakubu said there was no truth in the rumour as all the national commissioners were going about their lawful duty. He said: “While we fully understand the disappointment and even anger that followed that rescheduling of the elections on 16th February, I wish to appeal to stakeholders to be more dispassionate and circumspect in their comments in order not to overheat the polity. “The commission is focusing on the elections to be held on 23rd February and 9th March 2019 to ensure that they are free, fair and credible. We urge all Nigerians to participate fully in the elections, notwithstanding the disappointment caused by the rescheduling of dates.” He also declared that the commission had successfully deployed all the materials to states across the federation. He reiterated the commission’s preparedness to conduct credible elections come Saturday and March 9. He also said it was not true that one of the suppliers of the smart card readers was involved in the configuration process, stressing that the configuration was done entirely by the staff of the commission. The INEC boss, who also said that the commission had not received any complaint of any missing result sheets from any part of the nation, assured Nigerians that the commission would do all it had to do to ensure that Saturday polls went well and was free, fair and credible. “Last Saturday, the commission, after extensive review of our preparedness for the 2019 general elections, decided that it was necessary to reschedule the elections by one week. “As I explained to stakeholders, we were constrained to shift the polls due to severe challenges and lapses we experienced with arrival and distribution of sensitive materials, as well as the fires that gutted some of our offices in quick succession, destroying several election materials. “Let me therefore present to you the level of implementation so far achieved as follows: “By 4pm yesterday, all issues relating to the delivery of the materials were identified and virtually addressed. “Ballot papers, result sheets and a host of non-sensitive materials are now in locations across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “Our state offices commenced the process of inviting stakeholders to the Central Bank of Nigeria to examine the retrieved materials deployed last week and to witness the batching of materials according to local government areas (LGAs).”