Senator Effiong Dickson Bob, the former chairman of senate committee on services and later chairman, University of Benin Governing Council, is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) having represented Akwa Ibom North East (Uyo) Senatorial District between 2003 – 2011. He said that the electorate would be guided by the failed promises of the present All Progressives Congress (APC) -led federal government to determine who to vote as the next president. Excerpts: The Chief Justice of Nigerian saga at this time appears to be a bad omen for the coming election; what do you think? It is very unfortunate that we are having such an issue at a time like this. However, what I will say is that the process of appointing and removing the CJN is clearly stated in the constitution. This is a constitutional matter and no other subservient matter can overrule the constitution. The constitution makes it clear that if there is a petition, you go to NJC who will recommend adequate penalty for any offence, they are the body empowered to recommend those to be appointed as justices etc. However, what the judges and justices that will preside over the matter need now is courage and I believe that nothing should be done to truncate democracy. It will be very costly to start all over again if democracy is truncated. My appeal therefore is that all the stakeholders should rise and speak with one voice to secure our democracy by ensuring a peaceful and transparent election at all levels. ‘You are a two-term senator, today the National Assembly is faced as much attack like the judiciary is facing so far. Being the signature of democracy, how can the National Assembly overcome these challenges? The problem is that the legislators are divided among themselves. If they know what the institution is about, then when there is a threat from external forces, they should be united. In the senate where I was, anybody who threatened its sanctity was dealt with. In fact, if the senate takes a position and you go contrary, the senate will suspend you indefinitely. People like Enwerem suffered that fate. In fact, if you are suspended and the tenure expired if you do any event, the senate will not honor it until the suspension is lifted on the floor of the house. So the National Assembly members have a role to play because if the house collapses, nobody will be spared. I expect at this point that the entire National Assembly should be united in the interest of the nation to stop what the executive is doing to the judiciary irrespective of party linings because the judiciary is an arm of government which co-exists with the executive and legislature for the purpose of checks and balances. So with what some members of the National Assembly are doing presently, they are playing politics to their own detriment and the nation at large. It is very unfortunate, we have got to the point we should jettison party politics and confront our common enemy united as a people. Three years plus of the APC led federal government, with their efforts so far do you think PDP stands a chance to take over federal government again this coming election. Of course, we have done much to wrest power from them. We are still on campaigns. Nigerians still remember all their failed promises of making a dollar to none naira, reduction in pump price, bringing down prices of food, reduction in the unemployment rate, creation of three million jobs yearly, steady power supply, industrialization, etc. Have they achieved anyone? These are lies, they play politics to win the hearts of Nigerians for change, but what we have is chain. Everybody is in chain now; so PDP stands a better chance to unchain Nigerians because the presidential candidate we have is knowledgeable and has promised to restructure Nigeria and bring peace to North East and other parts of the country and he has the capacity to do that. Why do you sustain your support for Governor Emmanuel over the years against all odds? I support Governor Udom Emmanuel because he is doing a good job and the biggest among them are the intangible; not like the structures you see or the many roads he constructed and still constructing, it is the maintenance of peace and security in the state. Security and peace remain the first among all of his feats. He denounced the activities of cult groups publicly and disassociated himself from it. Comparing what we have today with the immediate past administration, it was evident that insecurity was imbedded in that government with cases of kidnapping and abduction; nobody was spared including children and adults. Even my late senior brother was kidnapped, a very fat man he was forced into the boot of a small vehicle and taken away to the creeks between Ikot Abasi and Rivers State. After his rescue, he died of the trauma of that incident few years after. They went after my in-laws but failed. Several prominent citizens were kidnapped; so that is the comparison today. Now people move freely without fear; then even churches were not safe as people were kidnapped there during services. We also witnessed shooting and killings even inside churches. So we don’t have such challenges anymore. People sit out late and return early morning to their homes without molestation. No society is totally free from crimes so what I am talking about is heinous and violent crimes, hired assassination and paid killing of people; snatching of children from parents are no longer there. It remains the governor’s number one achievement because if he has tolerated, condoned or encouraged even by body language, cultists which he openly denounced, and asked to steer clear of his administration would have wreaked havoc in the state. The state will not be the same today. Secondly in the critical sectors like Education, he has done much. Health sector he has renovated and constructed hospitals like St. Luke Hospital Anua, General Hospital Ituk Mbang, the one in Etinan and Ikono, etc. I visited all these hospitals before renovation, reconstruction and during their inauguration. A sound health goes with sound mind and our people need to be healthy through access to proper medical facilities. So the governor has done well with the health sector. The governor has also done very well in road infrastructures with the construction of over 1700km of roads. The way and manner he navigated the state during recession is also commendable. In three and half years, he has performed a feat a governor in office for eight years will do. Many localities without good roads like Eket and Oron are wearing new looks. Now the offshoot of the peace is the enabling environment which brought about the industrialisation we have in the state today. Without peace and security, no investor will bring his investment to the state. Our people should encourage the governor in this regard by siting their own industries even cottage ones to help engage more of our youths to enable them provide for themselves and their families. It appears securing a second term may be difficult owing to the fact that many political heavy weights left PDP to APC, people like Senator Akpabio, Umana Okon Umana . Don’t you think so? Who are the political heavyweights? Senator Akpabio has contested elections twice; one was to be governor and the second was to the Senate. Umana only made an attempt at governorship in 2015. Who else is in their camp? Political heavyweights are people like me who had contested and won in all levels of elections including wining in tribunals, Court of Appeals and Supreme Court. However, for this coming election, we are not interested in anybody’s political weight because they don’t have. The biggest heavyweight politicians are the people on ground. Elections are done in the units. The people in the APC in the state today are strange bed fellows. They can never agree even though they are together in the same political platform today, they can hardly trust each other. I can tell you that their core stakeholders here can sit together but they have irreconcilable differences. Again, I don’t think the intention of APC is genuine for the state. The opposition in the state believes they have the federal might which is security agencies and even INEC on their side, what is your take on this? I don’t know what federal might is. Whatever might somebody thinks he or she has is not greater than God which is Almighty. That is the belief of the governor and his administration. Election will hold at the same time across the country and everybody will face his unit and ward etc. That over concentration of security agencies in one state during election to achieve the so-called might is not the issue now and cannot work here. In any case, the federal might cannot take over the people. You cannot rig election without the support of the people. If you carry out any form of manipulation in an area you don’t have people’s support it will never work. Go to Ondo state and ask what happened to Omoboriowo in 1983 who “won” election in NPN but could not step into the state from his base in Lagos until the military coup of December 1983. You can never manipulate electoral process without peoples support. Today PDP is campaigning vigorously across the state for votes and has concentrated on the education of the voters and why they should vote the PDP again. It is clearly stated in the INEC guidelines that after results are declared that they must be pasted in the units. I think the guidelines for the successful conduct of the election is clear. How do you react to the claims by the opposition parties in the state that the funds received so far are not commensurate with projects or development on ground? Well, I am not in the government to know how much comes in but I speak from what I see being done in the state like industries, good roads. I am very satisfied with the government performance. My own is that even during recession, salaries and capital projects were ongoing in the state so the duty of the opposition is to say all they are saying while government duty is to be focused and keep delivering on their mandate.