ABUJA – Federal Government has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the African Export-Import Bank( Afreximbank) for the establishment of National Special Economic Zone Company (NSEZCo) to drive industrial development in the country. President Muhammadu Buhari, who presided over the meeting of the signing ceremony on Friday at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, described it as another landmark in his administration’s journey to industrialisation of Nigeria and job creation for the people. He said his administration was poised to set up the NSEZCo as a vehicle for participating in Public Private Partnerships involving Federal and State governments including local and foreign private investors. According to him, the company will develop new Special Economic Zones all over the country, offering advanced infrastructure and facilities at competitive costs. The projects in the pilot phase include Enyimba Economic City, Funtua Cotton Cluster and Lekki Model Industrial Park, the president said. “When we committed to the implementation of the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan and launched our Economic Recovery and Growth Plan to fast track implementation, we had a vision of Nigeria as the pre-eminent manufacturing hub in Sub-Saharan Africa and a major exporter to our immediate West African sub-region, the rest of Africa and indeed the World. “Special Economic Zones have an important role to play in our scheme. Special Economic Zones (SEZ) offer investor-friendly incentives, up-to-date infrastructure and ease of doing business in order to attract local and foreign investment and have been used as a catalyst for rapid and inclusive industrialisation, job creation and diversified export earnings in countries with exemplary development records, “he said. Earlier, the Afreximbank President, Professor Benedict Oramah, thanked the Federal Government of Nigeria for giving them the opportunity to be part of the initiative; describing it as one that will lay the foundation for an accelerated industrial development in Nigeria and expansion of the country’s export manufacturing. Oramah said that the initiative aligned very strongly with Afreximbank’s strategy, which is to support industrialisation, with emphasis on export manufacturing.