President Muhammadu Buhari recently suspended Justice Walter Onnoghen as the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) over allegations relating to his declaration of assets vis a vis monies allegedly found in his bank accounts. In Onnoghen’s position, President Buhari appointed Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, as the new CJN on acting capacity. The Federal Government also charged the suspended CJN to the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) to face trials for his alleged offences. The embattled CJN has taken the matter to the courts while the National Judicial Council (NJC) is also looking into the action, even as lawyers seem divided about it. But the question in the lips of most Nigerians is Did President Buhari violate the nation’s constitution by Justice Onnoghen’s suspension? Buhari Didn’t Breach The Constitution In Suspending CJN – Rights Activist Comrade Sunday Oladejo, an Osogbo-based human rights activist, justified Buhari’s action. According to him, the president did not breach any aspect of the constitution in his action. Oladejo said: “First, we must determine whether the President has powers and rights to suspend the CJN in a situation like this. “If the president has powers to suspend CJN from office pending the determination of the allegations levelled against him, then why the cry about over the suspension? “But, if he has no such powers and the Nigeria Judicial Council (NJC), which is supposed to act on a situation like this is ineffective and incapacitated, then we have problem in Nigeria. “Suspension of Justice Onnoghen has no doubt raised the dust yet to settle. What the President did was still on point. We cannot pretend that what Onnoghen did was not gravious. The same law that asks Mr. President, his Vice and other to declare their asset has no scared person. “The law is above everyone. There is equality before the law. In what area has Mr. President erred? If the President fails to act, politics has been introduced into the matter. “Don’t let us talk about the zone where the Acting CJN comes from. It is a matter of seniority. I don’t think the President has violated constitution rules because NJC has failed to act at appropriate time. “Taking the matter to the courts while Onnoghen is still the CJN will not lead right judgment. The only mistake the President committed was that he was too hasty because of his thinking that the NJC is ineffective or not alive to its responsibilities. “Our leaders must stop playing on the intelligence of Nigerians. Is the law made only for the poor? No, but, for all, irrespective of position. So, why are we crying about Onnoghen? “Someone that is supposed to uphold the constitution and the laws of the land erred and was asked to step aside and we are all crying about it. “This is the appropriate time to address all lacuna in the constitution. To avoid the lacuna next time, NJC must be empowered the more to function very well on situations like this. CJN’s influence on the NJC must be completely removed.” Buhari Was Not Wrong In Suspending CJN – Party Secretary Chief Omemma Ohakwuru Uhuji-Secretary, ROWA Party Owerri North LGA of Imo State, said: “The suspended Chief Justice of the Federation-Walter Onnoghen has already admitted that he inadvertently erred by not declaring all his assets before he was sworn into office. So, what is the fuss all about? “I do not intend to hold brief for President Buhari. But, I make bold to state that for a highly respected judicial officer occupying such a sensitive position, Onnoghen ought to have done the needful. “We are talking of corruption as the bane of our country. So, I do not think that the president violated the constitution. But, if I am wrong, let our constitutional lawyers educate us.” ‘Let Nigerians Wait For Supreme Court Decision’ Sir Obidimkpa Ahaukwu Chinweotito, Chairman, Maja Party, Akwakuma Ward, Imo State, stated; “How was the CJN appointed in the first place? Was it the president alone or was the appointment done jointly by the president and the National Assembly? “If there is a provision in the 1999 Constitution (as amended) which gives the president the power to appoint the Chief Justice of the federation, then he also has the prerogative to sack him. “But, if the reverse is the case, then the president erred in the suspension. “In any case, I understand that the matter has gone to the Supreme Court, which is the final bus stop. So, let us wait and see the outcome.” CJN’s Prosecution, Threat To Democracy – A-G Barrister  Uwemedimo Nwoko, the Attorney General and  Commissioner for Justice, Akwa Ibom State, has described the ongoing prosecution of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) as the greatest threat to the nation’s democracy. Nwoko has therefore warned that the current prosecution of the Justice Walter Onnonghen by the Federal Government could lead to the death of democratic institutions in the country and a waste on the blood of journalists and activists, who lost their lives during the struggles for democracy.. He has queried both the speed and approach to the prosecution of the CJN and warned that Nigeria would have been finished image wise the moment the Chief Justice is allowed to step into the dock in such a questionable and hurried manner. Nwoko said that Nigerian government is standing on a tripod, and therefore a threat to any arm of the government portends danger and remains a threat to the entire structure of government. He said from previous experiences and show of dictatorship on the part of the Federal Government, especially in dealing with Nigerian Judges, the Buhari administration has not shown any interest in the survival of democracy. Nwoko therefore called on the Attorney General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami,  to resign either on grounds of incompetence or denial of free hands  to perform his expected role. He maintained that the travails of Onnoghen remains the worst thing to have happened to Nigeria’s democracy after the annulment of the June 12 election, recalling that he had warned of dictatorial tendencies of the APC led Federal Government in the past. His words: “This is the first and single most potent, alarming and intolerable threat to democracy in Nigeria since 1999. Our democracy is facing real danger because this is the real perpetuation of dictatorship in the land. “This is the saddest event since the annulment of the June 12 presidential election, because, it is obvious that the FG wants to collapse the Judiciary and hand it over to people that will dance to their tune. The FG lost all their bad cases because the CJN is straightforward and cannot be bought over. “For me, it is an attempted coup to the entire government because a threat to the Judiciary is a threat to all the arms of government, because, the government stands on a tripod and when one leg of the tripod is missing, the other two cannot stand. To me, an attempted coup against any arm of government is a threat to the nation. “But, then Nigerians are already aware of the symptoms of dictatorship by the President. I had warned and asked Nigerians not to ignore it. “We were alarmed over the raid on residences of judges by persons without court orders or search warrants. That was unimaginable, even Judges of the Supreme Court. “If a personal aide to the President will write a petition and just two days after, charges followed, then there is cause for concern. They followed this one with speed, but did not follow other things with such speed. –“Meanwhile, the FG is yet to prosecute other people caught red handed in fraudulent activities,” he said. Though admitting that no man is above the law when the right procedure is applied, he however called on the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) to rise to the occasion by calling for a withdrawal of all the charges against the CJN and demand for a letter of apology for the CJN from the petitioners. Buhari’s Action Retrogressive, Capable Of Tearing Nigeria Apart – Analyst Yusuf Aliyu Mohammed, a public affairs analyst, opined: “This issue of Justice Onnoghen has taken away our attention from other equally important matters of national importance and this ought not to be so. In all honesty, the office of Chief Justice of the Federation comes with a lot of responsibilities which cannot be trivialised, no matter what. “Agreed, there are procedures that ought to have been followed before his removal, suspension or sack can be effected. Unfortunately, this was not adopted by those eager to have the learned Jurist removed from office. “The President has unfettered powers at his disposal. But then, how do we describe the constitutionality or otherwise in announcing the suspension from office of the CJN by President Buhari? “According to different law experts, some have accused the president of unilaterally pushing CJN Onnoghen out in order to have his way with whatever the outcome of the elections would be. We have to be very careful in deciding if Buhari breached the constitution considering that the CCT had sent its report to the President, which he also read to all Nigerians. “In my opinion, it is a ‘yes’ and ‘no’. No, he didn’t breach the constitution, because, the CJN was not sacked, but, asked to step aside to allow for a proper investigation of the allegations and avoid interference with his presence. “Yes, because the processes of removing or suspending CJN Onnoghen ought to have been through the NJC and not the CCT or CCB. Again, in appointing an Acting CJN, the processes were also not applied and this could be viewed as breech of the constitution. “President Buhari cannot be law unto himself if he professes to be a democrat, as he must follow the required procedures. It is sad that despite having a knowledgeable SAN as Vice President, his expertise is not being utilised to its optimum as he has allowed himself to be misguided by some elements in the corridors of power. “It is unfortunate, retrogressive and capable of tearing the country apart, especially as we claim to be a democracy where there is division of powers among the three arms of government. “He should handle this matter in a way all three arms of government must be able to exercise their independence.” Buhari Should Face Impeachment If He Committed Impeachable Offence – Don Dr. Gilbert Iserien Imadobor, a Benin-based university lecture,r said: “Although I am not a lawyer, but I don’t actually think the president has violated the nation’s constitution. If he did, instead of all the hues and cries by Nigerians, including the National Assembly lawmakers over the action, what I expected to see or witness is immediate commencement of impeachment proceedings against the president for violating the constitution he sworn to uphold. “Nigeria is a democratic country and every action taken by the president or governors or even local government chairmen is  guided by constitution. “With the recent cross carpeting and defections at the National Assembly, the two chambers can get the required majority to impeach the president, if it is true that he actually committed impeachable offence by suspending the CJN. “Mark you, the president has only suspended the CJN to give way for him to be investigated by the anti-graft agencies. If he is found wanting, only then he can be removed from office. I don’t also believe that because the president is a retired Army General as being insinuated, members of the National Assembly are afraid of him. “The three arms of government are there for checks and balances. Instead of all the noise, the president should be made to face impeachment if he is found to have committed impeachable offence by suspending the CJN.”