Temidayo Akinsuyi, Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC); Chief Olisa Agbakoba, former president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and Prince Tony Momoh, former Minister of Information, have advised Atiku Abubakar to accept defeat in last Saturday’s presidential election and refrain from challenging the outcome in court. In a chat with Daily Independent, Sagay said aside losing the elections, Atiku would also lose in court because the election complied substantially with the rules of elections as noted by both local and foreign observers. He urged him to maintain his dignity and earn the respect of Nigerians and the world by congratulating Buhari just as former President Goodluck Jonathan did in 2015. Sagay said: “My advice to Atiku is that it’s not advisable for him to go to court for political and moral reasons. “He should be mature politically and accept defeat with dignity. “By rejecting the result, what he is doing is to drag himself on the ground and lose all the little dignity that he has left. At the end of the day, he will be a double loser. “On the legal side, you can only upset a declaration of victory of an election if you can establish that the process of the election did not comply substantially with the rules of the election. “So, if there is failure to comply in some areas, it has no effect on the validity of the election. It has to be substantial. “There is no way anybody can say that this election does not comply substantially in electoral rules. All the various observers and monitors have written their reports and they have said it was a well organised election with hitches here and there. “What this means is that they are saying it substantially complies with the rules. So, legally, Atiku will fail, morally he will fail, and so, it’s not just good for him. “Today, the only claim to fame that Jonathan has was in accepting defeat and phoning President Buhari. “After we have blamed him for his misgovernance and all the poor things he did, then we remember that aspect and then we respect him and the world also respects him for it. “So, I think we should advice Atiku to follow the same pattern and do what Jonathan did so that he can reserve some respect for himself.” Also, Chief Olisa Agbakoba, former president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), on Wednesday urged Atiku not to approach the Election Petition Tribunal over his loss in the election. In a statement made available to Daily Independent, titled, ‘2019 Presidential Election: Ethnic Consideration vs Governance Consideration’, Agbakoba, leader of the National Intervention Movement (NIM), advised Atiku against approaching the court, and accepting the outcome in good faith even though the exercise was marred by irregularities. He said: “I understand the PDP is aggrieved about the outcome of the election and alleged massive irregularities, but I urge former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, not to approach the Election Petition Tribunal. “This is not to say I do not recognise the massive irregularities in the 2019 presidential election. I can see how tempting it is to take the option of the Election Petition Tribunal but that, in my view, is not the right decision.” He also advised Atiku to take up the opportunity to build a third force in the polity, as a counterpoise to the APC and PDP which have won all general elections in Nigeria since 1999. Also, Prince Tony Momoh, former Minister of Information, advised Atiku not to go to court, saying the former vice president would earn respect, nationally and international, if he accepted the outcome of the results as the wish of the people. Momoh, a national leader of the ruling APC, also advised Atiku to call and congratulate Buhari like former President Goodluck Jonathan did in 2015. He said the singular act made Jonathan an instant hero, adding that Atiku could earn the same status if he allowed national interest to rise above his personal ambition. “A beautiful thing happened shortly after the results were announced in the 2015 general elections; Jonathan called the winner (Buhari) and congratulated him. “That singular act not only made Jonathan a respected national figure, but also an international figure. “Therefore, as a national leader, I will call on our friend, Atiku, to call Buhari and congratulate him. “That will make him not just a national figure like Jonathan, but also an international figure. “Though court is an option, I advise him not to go to court because time will tell if he will get any reckoning after doing so. “He should not allow anybody to deceive him; instead, he should immediately call Buhari to congratulate him,” Momoh said. Why I’m Challenging Buhari’s Victory — Atiku Meanwhile, Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Wednesday rejected results of the presidential election that saw the emergence of the incumbent president, Muhammadu Buhari, saying he would challenge it in court. Atiku said there were manifest and premeditated malpractices in many states which negated the results announced. “I hereby reject the result of the February 23, 2019 sham election and will be challenging it in court,” he said. The former vice president, who vowed that democracy would not be emasculated in the country, thanked Nigerians for trooping out in their millions to perform their civic duty on Saturday. He said, “I thank the Nigerian people who trooped out in their millions to perform their civic duty this past Saturday. “The patriotism of Nigerians is heart-warming and affirms my oft-repeated statement that we are brothers and sisters born from the womb of one mother, Nigeria.” Speaking further on the irregularities in the election, Atiku, in a statement, said: “With regards to the presidential election that took place on February 23, 2019, it is clear that there were manifest and premeditated malpractices in many states which negate the results announced.” The former vice president, who frowned at the results that came out of crisis states like Borno and Yobe, also decried the suppression of votes from his strongholds like Lagos, Akwa Ibom, Rivers states, among others. He said: “One obvious red flag is the statistical impossibility of states ravaged by the war on terror generating much higher voter turnouts than peaceful states. “The suppressed votes in my strongholds are so apparent and amateurish, that I am ashamed as a Nigerian that such could be allowed to happen. How can total votes in Akwa Ibom, for instance, be 50% less than what they were in 2015? “Another glaring anomaly is the disruption of voting in strongholds of the Peoples Democratic Party in Lagos, Akwa Ibom, Rivers and diverse other states, with the authorities doing little or nothing and in some cases facilitating these unfortunate situations. “The militarisation of the electoral process is a disservice to our democracy and a throwback to the jackboot era of military dictatorship. “In some areas of the country, such as Rivers, Akwa Ibom, and Imo states, troops deployed for the elections turned their guns on the very citizens they were meant to protect. “This is condemnable and should not be associated with our electoral process in the future. “I am a democrat and there are democratic avenues available to present the truth to the nation and the watching world. “Already, many international observers have given their verdicts, which corroborate our observations. I am sure more will come in the coming hours and days. “If I had lost in a free and fair election, I would have called the victor within seconds of my being aware of his victory to offer not just my congratulations, but my services to help unite Nigeria by being a bridge between the North and the South. “However, in my democratic struggles for the past three decades, I have never seen our democracy so debased as it was on Saturday, February 23, 2019. “2007 was a challenge, but President Yar’Adua was remorseful. In 2019, it is sad to see those who trampled on democracy thumping their noses down on the Nigerian people. “Consequently, I hereby reject the result of the February 23, 2019 sham election and will be challenging it in court. “I want to assure my supporters and the entire Nigerian people that together, we will not allow democracy to be emasculated. “I hope and pray Nigerians will someday summon the courage to defend democracy. That is the only way we can move away from being the world headquarters for extreme poverty.”