ASABA – The mammoth crowd that was at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in the Oshimili South Local Government Area of Delta State on 31st of January awaiting the Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar could translate the state as the stronghold of the party in the country. The stadium was fully occupied with spectators and party faithful. Apart from those on the stands, several others flooded the field. They were from the 25 Local Government Areas in the State, identified through banners and songs of support for Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and Atiku. Whilst the Stadium was filled to its brim, others decided to wait outside the confines of the edifice before and during the arrival of their leaders that would steer the party to victory in the upcoming elections. The Stadium came alive upon the appearance of the bus conveying Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa , Mr Peter Obi, Senate President Bukola Saraki and the National Chairman of the Party, Uche Secondus. The crowd erupted with volcanic cheers as they acknowledged back by waving back at them. In his address, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa listed several projects he has commissioned which has made the people embrace continuity of his administration, assuring that it would in turn bolster the already attractive credentials of Atiku. Promising Atiku full support of the party in Delta State towards the course of his aspirations, Okowa emphasized that the party is prepared to show he is a heavy weight without any contender in Delta State. “We welcome you to Delta State, we want to assure you that we are prepared for the elections taking place on 16th of February and on the 2nd of March. That the people you are seeing here in their very large numbers would encourage you that we have the power to vote the PDP in large numbers. We are prepared to secure our votes and deliver the results’ Referring to the Presidential Candidate, Okowa said,  ‘As you move to other States, remember you have friends in Delta State and on this visit we pray that God would lead you”. The Director General of the Presidential Campaign, Senate President, Bukola Saraki was quick to sing praises of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for developing the State to an admirable level. “When a man is competent he will perform, if not, he won’t perform. Governor Okowa is competent that is why he could perform”. The National Chairman of the Party, Mr Uche Secondus was quick to harp on the neutrality of the Police and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in carrying out their duties as non partisans.  He stated that it is not news that the APC have plans to use the security agencies and INEC to aid rigging process during the election. Before the Presidential Candidate spoke, the Vice Presidential Candidate, Mr Peter Obi addressed the crowd, telling them not to mind the antics of the APC to discredit Atiku  He then gave credit to Okowa for a good job done in his first tenure. ‘’Everywhere I go, Okowa is working and we have seen the story, we have been hearing. Nigeria is not working but when you vote Atiku, you vote more development. Therefore vote Atiku to make Nigeria work again’. While addressing the people, Atiku appreciated the crowd for coming out in their large numbers to support his aspiration. While appealing to the marmot crowd, he listed reasons to ensure the present administration is removed from the wheel of power come February 16. “This people they call APC have failed and deceived us, everything they promised, they have failed to deliver. They failed to deliver on economy, they failed deliver on security. Why would you vote for them for God sake? He acknowledged  Governor Okowa as one of the best Governors the country has produced in recent times as a result of his immense track record since coming to power. He implored Deltans to vote for the continuity of the Governor, stating that Delta has been a PDP State. ‘’ the roads you have were done by PDP.  Therefore, there is no space for APC in Delta. He promised to consolidate the efforts of the State Governor if elected. “I will reactivate all the ports in Delta, I promise you this. Secondly, all the projects that have been abandoned by the Federal Government because you are PDP will be completed because you have been loyal to PDP, we will pay royalty. I will also complete the second Niger Bridge they have been deceiving you with. I appeal to you to vote for PDP from Presidential to National Assembly, to House of Representatives and House of Assembly and Local Government. PDP all the way” Atiku assured.