The presidential ambition of Atiku Abubakar, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), received a big boost on Monday when a major pollster, Williams and Associates of Salem, Massachusetts, in the U.S., tipped him to win the February 16 poll. The prediction is coming few days after The Economist of London also predicted that the former vice president would defeat incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari. Both predictions are coming two weeks to the 2019 presidential election. The latest forecast is the result of a field work conducted by the pollster, Williams and Associates, details of which were posted on the website of the company: http://www.williamspolls.com/web_documents/williams___associates_polling_results_jan_2019.pdf. Recall that Williams and Associates had, in a similar field work in 2015, predicted that Buhari would defeat the then sitting President Goodluck Jonathan. Information posted on the website of the company showed that it deployed the same methodology used in the 2015 prediction to conduct the field work for 2019 election. The activity was conducted between January 11 and January 16, 2019 across all the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria. The result of the poll shows that the PDP candidate, Atiku, will win other candidates in the election with 45 percent of the total votes cast, 12 percent higher than his closest opponent, incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari, who got 33 percent. The breakdown of the result is published on the website of the company. According to the poll, 64 percent of respondents disapproved that President Buhari had done his job well enough to deserve re-election. Similarly, the contentious issues that would shape the direction of the election were unemployment, poverty, corruption, insecurity in that order. While responding to a question on whether respondents expected the economic situation next year to get better or worse, a whopping 53 percent were pessimistic on the future of the economy. Also, the polls showed that there was an 11 percent improvement on the number of people who would turn out to vote in the 2019 presidential election, over the turnout for the 2015 election. And 80 percent of the respondents said they had already collected their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). Fifty-four (54) percent of the respondents said that regardless of who they support in the election, Atiku stood a better chance of winning the election compared to 38 percent who believed that incumbent President Buhari would win. The poll sampled 1,550 people who were interviewed in English and appropriate local dialect. The field survey was done under the supervision of Williams and Associates of Salem, Massachusetts. The survey asked questions based on critical issues facing the country including economy, security, corruption, inflation, good governance, lack of access to qualitative education, lack of transportation/good roads and infrastructure, lack of access to constant electricity, Boko Haram/terrorism, lack of housing, lack of good health care, etc, received varying responses based on geopolitical zones. On the mood of the nation, respondents were asked “Would you say that Muhammadu Buhari has done his job as president well enough to deserve re-election?” Breakdown by geopolitical zones shows that Buhari is 12 points lower than Goodluck Jonathan prior to his 2015 defeat. On the same question, the president’s approval rating was dismal as 76% from North Central zone rated him low on performance to deserve a second term. Other zones polled indicated North East: 55%; North West: 54%; South East: 71%; South South: 70%, and South West: 64%. Respondents were also asked which of the political parties they would vote in the coming election and the spontaneous response posted was APC, 32%; PDP 42%, others 15%, will not, 11%. The polls figure recorded a 10% differential point between the APC and PDP. Why Atiku Was Granted Visa Into U.S. Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), visited Washington two weeks ago to meet with top U.S. diplomats and lawmakers because the United States saw little benefit to creating bad blood with the man who might be the next president of Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation and the continent’s biggest oil producer, according to Reuters. The U.S. administration has not commented on Atiku’s status or his travel, but several U.S. diplomats and others familiar with the visit told Reuters the former vice president has been banned from entering the United States for the past several years after he figured prominently in two corruption cases. For Atiku’s supporters, the fact he was able to visit Washington on January 17 and 18 without being arrested was proof that the allegations were baseless. “It is fake news, and we showed that,” said Harold Molokwu, who heads the U.S. chapter of PDP. Several U.S. government officials said the travel ban was waived temporarily by the U.S. State Department after lobbyists mounted a campaign among congressional lawmakers arguing that the administration should not snub the leading challenger to President Muhammadu Buhari in the February 16 election. Lobbyists hired by Atiku said they sought to overcome resistance at the State Department by securing support from members of Congress for the visit, as well as arguing that the top U.S. official for African affairs, Assistant Secretary Tibor Nagy, had an obligation to encourage democracy in the seventh most populous country in the world. “Assistant Secretary Nagy was pleased to meet with him and share the U.S. government’s expectations that Nigeria’s elections be free, fair, transparent, and peaceful, and reflect the will of the Nigerian people,” a State Department official said, stressing the department had not requested the waiver. Atiku’s whirlwind visit to Washington last month was put together with the help of two U.S. lobbying firms. Holland & Knight was hired by Atiku personally in December to help him secure a visa, in part by enlisting members of Congress to request one on his behalf, according to a lobbyist for the firm. The firm’s lobbyists worked to set up a meeting with Nagy, arguing it would show that the United States wanted to encourage free and fair elections in a country where graft is endemic. “We are not asking the administration or anyone to take sides, but to merely demand the same level of freeness and fairness,” Ballard lobbyist Jamie Rubin told Reuters. Aside from Nagy, Atiku met with business leaders at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and at least two Republican lawmakers in the House of Representatives who specialise in foreign affairs, Representative Michael McCaul of Texas and Representative Chris Smith of New Jersey. Neither requested a visa waiver for Atiku, spokespeople for the two congressmen said. Atiku stayed at the Trump International Hotel, owned by the president, and met with several hundred Nigerian expatriates there, according to two people who attended the gathering. Atiku’s supporters say they chose the hotel because they were able to book rooms at a discounted rate with only a few days’ notice. “I think it was because of the availability of the space,” said Uche Udemadu, an official with the U.S. chapter of the PDP. 71 Retired Generals Endorse Buhari, Pledge To Work For His Re-Election Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari met with over 71 retired Generals at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday and confessed to them that being at the top of the leadership hierarchy was not an easy feat. Buhari, who went a bit philosophical during the meeting, said he could not really complain now as he had sought for the office of president four times before clinching it in 2015. He met with an array of retired officers which included army generals, admirals, marshals, and former military governors/administrators. “I pray that Nigeria would not lack people who can exploit its human and material resources, because the higher you go in Nigeria, the hotter it becomes, and not the other way round. “But I can’t complain. I tried so hard to be here three times, ending up at the Supreme Court. So, I can’t complain over anything I am going through now.” He also said it amazed him that Nigeria was still one entity despite the civil war that almost brought the country to its knees. “Nigeria, to me, is a fabulous country; if it were not so, the country could not have survived the damage done to it materially and morally in the past. “We thank God that after 30 months of civil war, with over two million lives lost, we are still one country,” the president said. He continued: “God has made this country great. We have human and material resources, and may God continue to give us the right leaders. My objective is very clear, and I will continue to do my best.” He recalled what he said in his days as military head of state. “We have no other country but Nigeria; we will stay here and salvage it together,” he echoed. President Buhari noted that even if one was blessed enough to send children for training abroad, “after such training, they will still have to come back here. We must, therefore, give our best for our country. The patriotism imbued in us by the military will ever remain relevant. Let’s do our best for this country.” He described the military as an institution that gives one amazing opportunities to know the country, its different peoples and cultures, “and I am very grateful that you have claimed me back as one of your own”. He added: “I was governor of North-East, which is now six states, minister of petroleum for over three years, head of state; I was arrested and detained but did not lose my rank, because nothing was found against me.” Leader of the delegation, Brigadier-General Buba Marwa, who was military governor in Borno and later military administrator of Lagos State, said the retired top officers thought it right to visit the president “to say that you have represented your constituency very well”. According to Marwa, “You announced a simple three-point agenda upon assumption of office, namely security, fighting corruption, and the economy. You have kept your words as an officer and a gentleman.” Gen Marwa added: “We, the retired armed forces officers, representing 99.9% of our colleagues say that we are proud of you; proud to be associated with your administration, and proud to witness this era of Nigeria rising again under your able leadership. “We support you fully and totally in the presidential elections next week and will do whatever we can within the law to contribute to your emergence as the victor in the election in order to take Nigeria to the next level.” The most senior of the retired officers, Vice Admiral Jubrila Ayinla, a former Chief of Naval Staff, said future generations would acquit President Buhari most creditably. He added: “On behalf of the generals here today, I congratulate you on the tremendous work done by this administration, and wish to state unequivocally that we are proud of you and fully behind you in the presidential elections next week. We pledge our full support and continued loyalty.” The delegation was made of one Vice Admiral, two Lt-Generals, 15 Major Generals, two Rear Admirals, eight Air Vice-Marshals, 12 Brigadier-Generals, three Commodores, nine Air Commodores, and 17 former military governors/administrators, among others.