LAGOS – All eyes are on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the announcement of last Saturday’s presidential election between President Muhammadu Buhari, flagbearer of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC ) and Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the major opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Since the conclusion of the exercise which was generally peaceful in most parts of the country except for few troubles in states like Rivers, Lagos and Osun, several results have been released by anxious Nigerians and supporters of the two gladiators. However, the commission has urged Nigerians not to rely on results announced on social media and other unverifiable platforms but wait for the official announcement by the electoral umpire. According to INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu “Only INEC is empowered by law to declare election results. I urge everyone to refrain from issuing any result. The commission will work assiduously to ensure that the collation and declaration of results are done at the various levels expeditiously”. Also, in a message on its verified Twitter handle, @ inecnigeria, the Commission yesterday said it was the only body constitutionally empowered to declare the results of the elections. “It has also come to our notice that some election ‘results’ are circulating on the various social media platforms. Kindly disregard such ‘results,’ as only INEC is constitutionally empowered to declare the outcome of the elections,’’ it said While speaking on the suspense generated by the 2015 presidential eection, which though held on a Saturday, the winner was not declared until the following Wednesday, Yakubu said the commission was working to ensure that it does not keep Nigerians waiting for days without declaring the results. “Even though this time around we have more presidential candidates than in 2015, we have more registered voters than we had in 2015, the size of the result sheet is bigger than we had in 2015, but we are committed to concluding the process for the Presidential elections roughly about the same time that we concluded the 2015 general elections. “We will do whatever we can to ensure that we speedily conclude the process but we won’t sacrifice accuracy for speed.” PDP Planning Announcement Of Fake Results – APC The APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) has slammed the PDP for allegedly planning announcement of fake results. The PCC Director, Strategic Communications (Official Spokesperson), Festus Keyamo, in a statement on Sunday, called for the immediate arrest of Alhaji Buba Galadima. The APC campaign said the PDP and Atiku’s campaign were perfecting plans to release fake presidential election results ahead of INEC and planning to mobilise hoodlums for choreographed protests. It called on INEC, Nigeria Broadcasting Commission and all law-enforcement agencies to warn the PDP and all their surrogates against flouting the law on announcement of official results as the violators would be made to face the law, stressing that opposition does not confer immunity on anyone to flout the law. The PCC, which urged all well-meaning Nigerians, the international community and reasonable members of the opposition not to be bought by the cheap antics of the PDP, said Nigeria will continue to exist after the election. “Let’s restrain our wards from being used by these unscrupulous elements,” the statement added. The APC campaign said the latest devilish plot against the country was a clear indication that their apology to the Nigerian people was just a hoax, adding that “They have learnt nothing and they have forgotten nothing as they just cannot win any election fair and square.” The statement read, “Devastated by authentic results filtering out of polling units nationwide, our usual sources within the camp of the PDP have informed us that an emergency meeting of the main opposition party has been summoned for today somewhere in Abuja. “Top on the agenda of the PDP is to activate the last strand of their Dubai strategies that have since collapsed like a pack of cards: they plan to release fake results of the Presidential Election later today or early Monday morning that they claim to have compiled themselves. “Our information is that they aim to create crises and confusion that will lead to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar claiming victory in a day or two from today ahead of the official announcement of the results by INEC. Then, what would follow will be some carefully choreographed protests by pockets of hoodlums in some parts of the country. The ultimate aim is to curry the sympathy of our foreign friends and push us to the Venezuela situation. “In preparation for this reckless move, some PDP social media agents are already flying some kites on-line as to the number of States allegedly ‘won’ by PDP. In fact, Alhaji Buba Galadima, an official spokesperson for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has made a short video announcing PDP as the ‘winner’ of the Presidential Election. “As an official spokesperson, he is clearly acting on behalf of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and on his instruction. We, therefore call for the immediate arrest, interrogation and prosecution of Alhaji Buba Galadima in this regard. The world is watching and waiting on Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to say something on the video by Alhaji Buba Galadima. “Over the years, the PDP had been declared ‘winner’ of Presidential elections under controversial circumstances. “On those occasions, President Muhammadu Buhari never took laws into his hands and declared himself President. He also never declared parallel results. He availed himself of constitutional means to address his grievance by approaching the law courts.” PDP Wants Atiku Declared Winner On its part, the PDP urged the INEC to declare its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, the winner of the presidential election. The party expressed the view that its candidate has won the election, and that INEC was only delaying the announcement to enable it falsify figures in favour of Presiden Buhari. In a statement signed by Kola Ologbondiyan, its Publicity Secretary, the party said “The PDP charges INEC to immediately announce results as delivered from the polling units and declare the people’s candidate, Atiku, the winner of the February 23 presidential election.” Copying the United Nations, the European Union Commission, the US Embassy in Abuja, the UK High Commission in Nigeria and French President Emmanuel Macron, among others, PDP wrote further, “Our position is predicated on clear and verifiable results across the nation, showing that Atiku is in clear lead both in spread and total number of votes cast.” Citing intelligence report, PDP said, “Intelligence available to us is that INEC is delaying the announcement of results following directives by the Muhammadu Buhari Presidency and the APC which are bent on altering the figures from the polling centres and allocate fictitious figures for President Buhari.” “Curiously, INEC server is now shut down, results are no more being transmitted and the reason is to enable the APC to inflate figures from six designated states. We call on international observers and election monitors to insist on a transparent process of transmission of results and the monitoring thereof.” Indicting APC governors across the states, PDP wrote: “We already have reports of how APC governors have been making desperate efforts to tamper with the results of the elections in their respective states with the view to award conjured votes to President Buhari. “In Kogi State, Governor Yahaya Bello has been making frantic moves to change results to suit APC’s intent and purposes as against the wishes of the people, expressly delivered at the polls.” PDP indicted certain government officials, saying, “Nigerians already know how the Minister of Transport and the DG of the Buhari Campaign, Rotimi Amaechi, used the military to hold an INEC official in River State, Mrs. Mary Efeturi, hostage and insisted that she alters the results in favour of President Buhari.” Warning the INEC chairman not to change the results of the presidential elections, PDP said, “The PDP calls on INEC Chairman, Prof. (Mahmood) Yakubu to note that in this age of Information Communication Technology, Nigerians already have the results as delivered at the polling centers and any attempt to alter any figure will be faced with vehement resistance.” Will Orubebe Drama Repeat Itself? The 2015 Presidential election between President Muhammadu Buhari and Goodluck Jonathan witnessed high level dramas especially during the announcement of results. The national agent of the PDP at the presidential election collation centre of INEC in Abuja, Elder Godsday Orubebe disrupted the announcements of the results. When it was obvious that the candidate of the PDP, former President Goodluck Jonathan, was losing, Orubebe dramatically seized the microphone for minutes insisting that the INEC Chairman, Prof. Attahiru Jega was bias against the PDP, hence, should suspend announcement of result. Shouting on top of his voice and calling the INEC Chairman, Jega some unprintable names, Orubebe, a former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, accused Jega of taking sides in the election by showing support for the APC. “You sent a committee to Rivers to probe what happened there. We submitted petitions to you about Kano, Jigawa, Katsina but you have not done anything about our complaints. You cannot continue with these results; we will not take it,” Orubebe said. When the INEC Chairman attempted to continue with the announcement of the results, the former Minister shouted him down and said, “Mr. Jega, You cannot continue, go to your office.” Orubebe initially stopped the announcement of results from Collation Officer of Ebonyi State, Prof. Michael Amalekwu, which was later continued. Reacting to his allegations, a calm Jega rebuked Orubebe for his public conduct as a former Minister and denied giving the election results to the APC. In conclusion, he said “Mr Orubebe, you are a former Minister of the Federal Republic .You are a statesman in your own right. You should be careful about what you say or what allegations or accusations you make. Certainly you should be careful about your public conduct”. Orubebe, who received backlash from Nigerians for his conduct has since tendered an unreserved apology. Speaking after the elections, he said “ Election is a passionate thing and I really regretted what took place this morning. I was unnecessarily pushed by Jega to get to that level and I did make that statement. I want to apologise particularly to young Nigerians that look up to take politics as a career to say that what happened was not intended to cause them any embarrassment. “To Nigerians generally, I regret my actions as even an elder in the Church, and a leader, the young men expected to see a lot from me and I believe that if there was any disappointment they got from me I apologize to Nigerians and to the youths of this country”. Speaking in a recent interview on what transpired during the period, Jega said he remained calm while Orubebe disrupted election because he as well as his colleagues were determined to conduct credible elections. In an interview with Zero Tolerance, a quarterly magazine of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) , Jega said during the collation of results, it was evident to him that some people were bent on derailing the process by provoking him and his colleagues. “The fact of the matter is that all of us in INEC were determined to conduct free, fair, credible and peaceful elections and by the time we came to collation it became evident that we had done our best professionally. So, we were determined to ensure that no matter the provocation we would ensure that the results were tabulated and announced. There were all sorts of allegations and accusations, but they didn’t faze us because we knew we have not done anything to warrant such allegations and accusations” he said.