Office of  National Security Adviser (ONSA) has denied issuing any directive to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and service providers to shutdown Internet access during the forthcoming election. In a statement it issued on behalf of the Federal Government yesterday, the ONSA said the allegation was a disinformation, and advised members of the public to disregard it in its entirely. He said the Internet and allied communication resources are a part of the nation’s Critical National information Infrastructure (CNII) that the NSA is mandated to safeguard. The statement signed by Danjuma Reuben, spokesman of the office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) further explained that it is part of the schedule of the ONSA in collaboration with relevant ministries, departments and agencies of government to regularly ensure it protected and improve service delivery to all Nigerians. The statement reads “The attention of the Office of the National Security Adviser has been drawn to the allegation making rounds in the media that the Federal Government, through the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), has directed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to work with Internet service providers to shut down internet access during the forthcoming elections to facilitate rigging of the 2019 elections. “The Office wishes to advise the general public to disregard the allegation, which is a disinformation. “The Office, wishes to state that the Internet and associated communications infrastructure are major components of the Critical National Information Infrastructure (CNII), which ONSA is mandated to ensure its security. “Accordingly, the office in collaboration with relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies of Government makes continuous efforts to protect them and improve service delivery to Nigerians. “Furthermore, every single national security platform in the country rides on the same Internet to function. Therefore shutting down the Internet is akin to shutting down national development and security. “The Office of the National Security Adviser remains committed to protecting the rights of the public to access Information and Communication Technology facilities. The office also remains nonpartisan and committed to ensuring that Nigerians freely exercise their civic rights.”