LAGOS – The  Yoruba Council of Youth Worldwide (YCYW) has  warned  members of the  Lagos House of Assembly against moves to impeach Governor Akinwunmi Ambode Its President, Aremo (Barrister) Oladotun Hassan,  who gave the warning in a statement yesterday said the action of the lawmakers smacks of tyranny, capable of undermining democratic tenets and throwing the state into political turmoil. The Lagos lawmakers threatened to commence impeachment proceedings against Gov. Ambode over what the house alleged as gross misconducts. The House   had  Monday summoned Ambode to appear before it within one week, stating that failure to formally present the 2019 Budget before it will lead to impeachment move against him. Describing the allegations as “unsubstantiated and tainted allegations, invariably predicated on political malicious intents, capable of throwing the centre of excellence into total turmoil,Hassan implored  all lovers of peace and democratic norms in the state to  save it from impending wreck “In the face of fierce display of tyranny and undemocratic tendencies, anarchy is inevitable, especially wherein rule of law has been abdicated by rule of force, reference to the unwarranted evil machinations and brewing political scenario in Lagos State, based on the looming impeachment recipes premeditated and prepared by Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa-led Lagos State House of Assembly against Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, the Executive Governor of Lagos State over unsubstantiated and tainted allegations, invariably predicated on political malicious intents, capable of throwing the centre of excellence into total turmoil. “We hereby condemn in its entirety this nefarious and undemocratic shenanigans aimed at deepening the yet to be resolved aftermath of the APC Primary election feuds which had recently jeopardized the fragile peace in Lagos State, most regrettably few days to an all important 2019 general elections, hence our fundamental demand to the Lagos State House of Assembly members fanning the embers of crises and disunity via the pre-planned coup to overthrow the best performing Governor in Nigeria over concocted budget infractions; all in the bid to call a dog a bad name, to desist and reconsider thier steps in the overall interest of peace and the necessity to collectively salvage and stabilize the polity.” The group  implored  the leadership of the Assembly to halt the impeachment moves. It also asked a former governor of the state, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to placate the warring sides and bring about lasting peace ahead of the forthcoming general elections.