Lagos – Tennis as a sport originated in the monastic cloisters in northern France in the 12th century. Though largely discredited, in the first few centuries when it was played, the ball was struck with the palm of the hand; hence, the name jeu de paume (“game of the palm”). It was not until the 16th century that rackets came into use and the game began to be called “tennis,” and was popular in England and France. Tennis is one of the very prestigious, most followed and financially viable sports in the world hence the likes of Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal, Roger Federer, Andy Murray, among others have been making fortunes out of the sport. In the women’s category, the likes of Serena Williams and Venus Williams, Maria Sharapova, Steffi Graf of Germany, Martina Navratilova are some names that easily come to mind. Incidentally, the 2019 Australian Open, one of the most prestigious tennis majors ended last Sunday, with all the thrills and spills as Djokovic won the men’s event with £2.56mnand Japanese Naomi Osaka, the women’s event with same prize money. But it is sad to mention that this game which is highly money spinning is still at the embryo stage in in Nigeria for obvious reason that has been the bane of sports development in the country – failure to plan. It is, however,    funny to learn that in the ‘70s and ’80s Nigeria was in the global map in tennis where Nduka Odizor was flying the country’s flag at international events and was in the first 100 in global ranking. One of the very popular Tennis Open in the country then was, the Ogbe Hard Court Championship in Benin City, Edo State and the Okada Open also in Edo State to mention a few. Odizor was a household name; he represented Nigeria at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, where he was defeated in the first round by American lucky loser Robert Seguso. A right-hander who won one career title in singles (Taipei, 1983) and seven doubles titles. He reached his highest ATP singles ranking of World No. 52 in June 1984. Sadiq Abdullahi , one of the Nigerian  tennis greats of the good old days and a contemporary of Odizor in a recent interview painted a picture of efforts made to move the game forward which died a natural death. “Tennis in Nigeria today represents our collective failure as a community of tennis lovers. The media and those interested in the game have written extensively, exposing the problems tennis is facing and continues to face in Nigeria. In 2009, after cutting all ties with the country for 19 years, I returned to inspire a movement to change tennis for the better. We formed an organisation called Nigerian Tennis Foundation in the USA in 2005 to change how we approach tennis development in Nigeria,” he said. Fancy the team Nigeria of the ‘70s and ‘80s as listed by Abdullahi on the history of tennis players’ development. “In the 1970s, the senior national team was made up of Patrick Obi, Lawrence Awopegba, Thompsn Onibokun, Yemi Allen, and Kehinde Ayayi. The intermediate players such as Robinson Odoko, Femi David, Olayiwola Ogunrinde, Segun Balogun, Bullus Hussaini, Nduka Odizor, David Imonitie,  Alex Akah, Godwin Wowo, Solomon Ona, Gabriel Odudu, Remi Osho and Romanus Nwazu were waiting to take over from them. In fact, Imonitie, Balogun, Hussaini, Tony Mmoh, and Odizor took over from the seniors. Among my teammates in the intermediate team in the early 1980s waiting for the senior team included Friday Otabor, late Joseph Ijeh, William Ogene, Phillip Nwajie, Philip Okpopo, Ashimiu Oba, Godwin Emeh and Muri Ajibade. I was the only player who made it to the senior team in 1985. “The national senior team of the mid-1980s was made up of Odizor, Mmoh, Imonitie and I. We were known as the Four Musketeers of Nigerian Tennis. We raised the bar and dominated tennis in Africa and competed favorably in international competitions such as the Davis Cup, ATP tours including all the Grand Slam tournaments and the Olympics. The Olympics capped my tennis career, a career that was full of ups and downs, but nevertheless a productive one. “The 1990s was the era of Sule Ladipo and co. He and his teammates represented Nigeria at the 1996 Olympics, ending our dominance in Africa and representation in the top 100 in world ranking. This should have been a turning point to rebuild the game but nothing was done,” he lamented. Interesting, Abdullahi was kind enough to affirm that they did not do enough to sustain the tempo – failure to give back to the society what they benefited – thus accepted blames on them from stakeholders. According to him, “The accusations and counter-accusations are symptoms of deep frustration. They are justifiable and understandable. We are all humans with deep emotions and feelings. I have criticised Chuka Momoh and Sani Ndanusa for not doing enough for the game’s growth. I have also criticised Odizor, Mmoh, Imonitie and myself for not exerting more influence on the administration. Since 2009, I have asked Ndanusa to rethink tennis development and improvement. I stopped criticising him because the approach is not working. The system that relies on one individual, not the group, is bound to break down. If we fix the system, all the sub-systems will be fixed. This is the global concept of interdependence.” If the buildup of the “Team Nigeria” in the days is anything to go by, it implies that Tennis is complex game according to pundits of the game; it is not football or basketball, where young people can play anywhere and with little coaching and equipment. A young tennis player must show interest very early in life. They should begin at the age of five or six. In this regard, one is talking about “tennis academy” which should be the basic of grassroots development in the sport and in any other sport; but the administrators and managers have failed to achieve this goal. They have failed to be open-minded, collaborative and inclusive. They (administrators) are said to be running the tennis federation as their personal property and have always mismanaged the International Tennis Federation (ITF) development money. It is an indictment! The only viable tennis open in recent times in Nigeria is the Governor’s Cup at Ikoyi, Lagos; it has been attracting commensurable foreign attentions even as much still needs to be done in terms of facilities. All over the country, tennis courts that used to serve international purposes are now a shadow of themselves as some are now for leisure tennis games. The Ogbe Hard Court in Benin City is a pathetic example. The 2018 Davis Cup Team Nigeria is neither here nor there; it has the likes of Sylvester Emmanuel, Joseph Imeh, Abdulmumuni Babalola, and Clifford Enosoregbe. Dayo Akindoju, Nigeria Tennis Federation President (NTF) however, expressed confidence that 2019 will see the continued improvement game even as he has seen the establishment of an academy as imperative. Akinjodu giving his scorecard of the growth recorded in the sport so far told Brila.net eelier in January that more national tournaments had been introduced in the calendar between 2017 and 2018 to help keep players based in Nigeria more active. He concluded, “My projection for the New Year is about development at the grassroots through the establishment of Tennis academies in schools.” However, this piece cannot be complete without the mention of pioneers and philanthropies of the game such as Alhaji Raheem Adejumo, Alhaji Toti, Lord Rumens-Chief Alabi, Chief Okoya Thomas, Alhaji Babatunde Jose, Mr. John Lazarus, Alhaji Machido Dalhatu, Alhaji Habu Gumel and Mallam Ibrahim Usman Sangari – their efforts have helped to sustain the game in the country till date. That is a better way to end the discussion as Nigerians are yearning for another Odizor and co of the ‘70s and ‘80s.