Barrater Kenneth Udeze is the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA) and the Legal Adviser of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on issues relating to the elections. Excerpt: You have been watching the campaigns and debates among the candidates, especially those running for the presidency. What would you say are your major observations so far? The campaigns this time has been with so much intrigues and grandstanding than the expected manifesto selling opportunities. Maybe, the only party doing what is more like it is the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), because they have insisted on delivering issue based campaigns than the comedy coming from All Progressives Congress (APC), where their stock in trade is to mount the podium and rail insults and abuses to their opponents and national figures. The other party, which has been doing well is the Young Progressive Party (YPP), but they are more academic than realistic. Atiku Abubakar and his PDP have a message, which highlights how to get Nigeria working again. President Muhammadu Buhari and APC are more like selling an assumption, with their Next Level thing. If you juxtapose it, I think, we need Nigeria to come out of its current state of failed state and get re-jigged to start working again, than the so called Next Level. You ask yourself, next level to what? Or, next level of what? Is it the next level of the current hardship, insecurity, unrepentant lies, insecurity, organised strikes, sectionalism, selective justice and lawlessness, etc? No, I think the messages of PDP, YPP, even APGA are far better. Your Imo State governorship candidate, Uche Nwosu, and his father-in-law, Gov Rochas Okorocha, were campaign for President Muhammadu re-election, while the Action Alliance were backing the CUPP candidate, Atiku Abubakar of PDP. Did you not see this as contradictory? In politics, what is constant is interest. So, when you see what is going on in the Owelle Rochas Okorocha’s political camp is pathetic, because, permanent friend syndrome is being played up beyond the limits. But, let’s leave that for another day. Let’s look at it very objectively. It is not always easy to fight too many battles at once, when you can avoid some. If I am in Okorocha’s shoes, I will do the same thing he’s doing. And, he is right. Buhari has been his associate for over three years and they still share same identity. How do you expect him to do otherwise? Let’s cut him a slack. He deserves some respect as he has shown some doggedness and savvy political prowess so far, to combat his opponents in APC and Imo State political environment. But, that is all about that. Our party, AA, is a charter member of the CUPP, and Atiku has been our project. We owe no one any explanations about it. AA of Imo State chapter knows what is at stake. We shall all vote for Atiku/Obi, on February 16, 2019 presidential election. It is a statement of fact. The outcome will vindicate us. How would you describe the capacities of the major presidential candidates like President Muhammadu Buhari, Atiku Abubakar, Kingsley Moghalu  of  Young Progressive Party (YPP) and Omoyele Sowore of African Action Congress (AAC), among others? It is very simple; “He, who has passed the road before, naturally knows the road better”. One would have said that of all the names you mentioned, Buhari would have been the preferred. But, events have shown that this country cannot be better with Buhari, because, he never and can never indeed be in control of that office. I am sorry to remind you that the man was said to be brain dead by the British Medical Personnel earlier in his administration, and so far, inspite of the aid given to him, he has made unpardonable mistakes in his campaigns and other national assignments, and he is not going to change for better tomorrow, even if you give him 10 more years. So, if you ask me, he is not fit for the office. The next in line, is the former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar (Wazirin Adamawa), who under their watch, Nigeria had meaningful economic progress, and most of the nation’s debts were forgiven, and things worked really well under him and President Olusegun Obasanjo. As an established entrepreneur and employer of labour, he is taller than the rest in rating. As for Moghalu and Sowore, their time will come. What is your take on the recent withdrawal of Oby Ezekwesili of Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) from the presidential race? Could her action be attributed to internal party wrangling? Oby Ezekwesili, the former ACPN presidential candidate had a press conference on Monday, February 3, 2019 in Abuja, after she announced her withdrawal from the 2019 presidential race on Thursday, January 24, 2019. The former minister said that her relationship with the party became sour when she refused to go against the provisions of the Electoral Act to satisfy their monetary demands. She said she is not a politician, but strictly a public policy expert. She has always believed that the brand of politics we practice in this country is perverse and unappealing to her. According to her, “A series of deeply agitating occurrences moved me to take a keener interest in the toxic effect bad politics has on governance of Nigeria. Most of 2018 saw me increasingly mobilising citizens to become more politically conscious and pay deeper attention to the activities of our politicians nationwide. “I preached that to correct the prevalent bad governance for which Nigeria is globally derided, our citizens would need to take collective actions that terminate bad politics. Evidence abounds that our version of politics undermines everything that we do in this country, whether it is what citizens do, what businesses do, what the society at large does. It undermines governance.” So with the foregoing, you can see, she did not just resign, but was not happy with the set up in that party. Although a cross section of Nigerians is questioning the capability of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to give credible elections this year. Do you think such fears are well founded? INEC committed terrible blunder in Edo, Ekiti and Osun states with the way they conducted those elections. The effect is still hurting the sensibility of Nigerians. The controversy behind their personnel postings, especially the Amina Zakari’s involvement, being a relation of Buhari, is still a case yet to be reconciled. They are glib with the facts, and in some instances, they behave as if the APC has polarised them, as they are even behaving as if they are another arm of that party. They have to come out clean this time. The world is watching. Elections are panacea to sufferings and pains when handled well, but anything in the contrary, shall be catastrophic.