ABAKALIKI – Over 30 houses have been destroyed in pre-election related violence that broke out in some communities in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi state. To this end, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressive Congress (APC) have continued to trade blames over the destructions. The state Commissioner of Police, Awosola Awotunde on Monday in Abakaliki appealed for calm among residents over the attacks. Awotunde, who spoke with journalists after a visit to the affected, vowed police authority would ensure that perpetrators of the dastardly acts were arrested and brought to book. The police chief described the incident as barbaric and man’s inhumanity to man. Awotunde who decried the wanton carnage warned against any reprisal. He said that those involved in the criminal attacks on the communities, including their sponsors would be arrested and prosecuted. “We appeal for calm and assure the public that police will spare no efforts in ensuring that everyone involved in the dastardly act is brought to book including their sponsors. “The police further reassure the public of commitment to the protection of lives and property of every citizen of the state before, during and after the elections,” Awotunde said. He also sympathised with victims during the assessment visits. Narrating his ordeals, a victim of the attack, Mr. Donatus Nwofe who spoke to journalists at Aguabata in Agbaja community of Izzi, said he lost two of his buildings and property worthy several million to the attackers. Nwofe, who is the chairman of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP) Ebonyi council, said that the suspected political thugs invaded his compound and shot sporadically before setting the houses ablaze. “I lost everything; even the boxers I am wearing were donated to me by a sympathizer, as you can see, no pin was removed from the burnt down houses. “We now live in fear as no one knows when the hoodlums will attack again with their AK 47 rifles and other weapons.” “I am appealing to police to beef up security in the community and I am also calling on state and Federal governments to come to the rescue of the victims of the attacks,” Nwofe said. Another victim, Mr Paulinus Onyike said the suspected political thugs from a major political party invaded Izenyi, in Agbaja community and set houses suspected to belong to members of the opposition ablaze.