Raheem Sterling made the most of Manchester City’s FA Cup trip to Newport by meeting up with a young fan who he had written to after he suffered racial abuse. Aspiring footballer Ethan Ross, who plays for the Welsh club’s Under 14 side, received a letter from Sterling in January after his grandmother wrote to the England star about the ‘tough time’ the boy was having. And Sterling went one step further after City’s 4-1 victory on Saturday evening as he met up with the 13-year-old to pass on some words of advice face-to-face. Raheem Sterling poses with young fan Ethan Ross after Manchester City’s win over Newport +5
Raheem Sterling poses with young fan Ethan Ross after Manchester City’s win over Newport Sterling sent a touching letter and signed photo to Ethan after he had been racially abused +5
Sterling sent a touching letter and signed photo to Ethan after he had been racially abused ‘Be proud of who you are and don’t let them take away your… Newport County 1-4 Manchester City: Phil Foden strikes twice… ‘I don’t want the club wasting the money that’s been made’:… ‘Phil’s only problem is that he has to compete with Kevin De… The 24-year-old shared a picture of himself with Ethan at Rodney Parade on Instagram and wrote: ‘It was probably as heartwarming for me as it was for you to finally meet up, Ethan. ‘Again, always be proud of who you are, and never stay silent. #SpeakUp #youthsarethefuture’ Sterling had written to the youngster to offer encouragement and support after learning that he has been racially abused. Ethan, who has been targeted by bullies at his school, met Sterling after the fifth round FA Cup tie after City made arrangements with his mother, Vicki. Sterling’s letter to Ethan, which included a signed photograph, was widely shared on social media last month. Sterling laughs alongside manager Pep Guardiola after City’s win in the FA Cup fifth round +5
Sterling laughs alongside manager Pep Guardiola after City’s win in the FA Cup fifth round Sterling has been in excellent form and recently opened the scoring in 6-0 win over Chelsea +5
Sterling has been in excellent form and recently opened the scoring in 6-0 win over Chelsea Sterling wrote: ‘Remember to stand tall and be proud of who you are and don’t let them take away your courage. ‘You are strong and very brave, and your Nanna is also very proud of you. Keep being you kid. ‘Remember speaking up doesn’t always make life easy, but easy never changed anything.’ The 24-year-old spoke out against racism in December after he was abused by Chelsea fans during City’s defeat at Stamford Bridge. Sterling admitted that he ‘expected no better’ and claimed that coverage of black footballers was helping to fuel the problem in this country.