Lagos – The scheduled trial of kidnap, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike alias Evans was yesterday stalled due to the absence of the prosecution witness, Inspector Idowu Haruna who was said to have had an accident. The witness, attached to the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team,(IRT) for Six years, was billed to continue his evidence in chief against Evans and his gang members for allegedly shooting the Young Shall Grow Motors chairman (YSG), Chief Obianuju Vincent and killing two of his escorts. The prosecutor however did not disclose the cause of the accident or the degree of injury sustained; he simply told the court that the witness sent an SMS informing him of his current predicament. While addressing the court, Haroun said, “My lord, our first prosecution witness is not present in court today. He is not in court because he had a slight accident. “He sent me an SMS saying that he was involved in an accident and therefore cannot make it for today’s proceedings. We craved the indulgence of the court to grant another date for trial”. The witness had, during the last proceeding, told the court that Evans shot the YSG chairman on his right arm in an attempt to kidnap him. Evans is standing trial alongside three of his gang members: Joseph Ikenna Emeka, 29, Chiemeka Arinze, 39, Udeme Frank Upong, 43, on a seven count charge of murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to kidnap and selling of firearms. According to him, “The incident occurred on August 27, 2013 at Third Avenue Festac Town when the YSG chairman was returning from a game house with his convoy and was attacked by heavily armed men led by Evans. “During the attack, the YSG chairman was shot on his right arm while his driver, one Mr Peter Nweke was shot dead. One of his escorts, Chijoke Ngozi (female) was also shot dead. “During a gun duel between the chairman’s police escorts and the gang, three of kidnappers were shot dead by Inspector Solomon Igwe, while the rest fled from the scene. “Two rifles belonging to the gang members were later recovered by the Festac Police Division, where the case was reported. “The corpses were later evacuated by the police at Festac and the case was assigned to my team,” he said. Justice Taiwo thereafter adjourned the matter till Febrauary 6, 2019 for continuation of trial.