Lagos – Gianni Infantino, FIFA President, has condoled the Nigeria Football Federation and the family of Late Taiwo Ogunjobi, the former Secretary-General of the Nigeria Football Association (NFA) and former Board Member who passed away on Monday, February 11. He would be buried on March 15 in Ibadan, according to a media statement signed by his personal assistant, Tunde Shamsudeen, the burial programme will begin on Wednesday, March 13 and will end on Friday, March 15 with a funeral service In a letter dated February 19, and addressed to Amaju Pinnick, President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), he wrote: “I would like to express my sincerest and heartfelt condolences on the passing of former Nigeria international player and administrator, Taiwo Ogunjobi. Words seem inadequate to express the sadness we feel for this loss. “Ogunjobi had a fulfilling and enriching career in football. As a player, he will be remembered notably as the captain of the Shooting Stars SC team that reached the final of the Africa Cup of Champion Clubs in 1984. After his retirement, he served as Secretary-General of the NFF between 2002 and 2005, and was member of the NFF Executive Committee between 2006 and 2010. “His legacy and achievements on and off the pitch will not be forgotten, and he will be truly missed. “On behalf of the international football community, I wish to extend our deepest sympathy to the NFF, and to Ogunjobi’s family, friends and loved ones. Our thoughts are with all of you. We hope that these memories and our words of support may help bring some peace and solace at this difficult time.” Similarly, two-time Head Coach of the Super Eagles and a former FIFA Advisor on Technical Matters, Chief Adegboye Onigbinde and former NFF General Secretary, Barrister Musa Amadu have both expressed their condolences on the passing away of Ogunjobi. Onigbinde, who coached the youthful Nigeria squad that won the silver at the 1984 Africa Cup of Nations – of which Ogunjobi was a member, said the death of the respected administrator was a big shock. “Indeed, words are inadequate to express the sorrow and grief that I feel. He was my player in the National Team and he later excelled himself in administration. I pray that God will grant his soul eternal rest and also comfort the family and friends that he has left behind.” Amadu, who served as NFF Deputy General Secretary between 2006 and 2010 while Ogunjobi was a Member of the Board, before serving as General Secretary between 2010 and 2015, expressed shock on the departure of the amiable one –time Chairman of NFF Technical and Development Committee. “The news of Chief Ogunjobi’s death came like a thunderbolt. I found it difficult to believe. But what can we do? I pray that God will receive his soul and also grant those he has left behind, including the Nigerian Football family, the fortitude to bear the big loss.”