Temidayo Akinsuyi and Paschal Njoku Lagos / Abuja – The Supreme Court on Tuesday struck out three appeals instituted by the All Progressives Congress (APC); Tonye Cole, its Rivers governorship candidate, and Ojukaiye Flag Amachree, the state party chairman. The appellants were challenging the judgment of the Court of Appeal delivered on October 10, 2018, which struck out their appeals in respect to the forthcoming general election in the state. The three appeals of the Rotimi Amaechi-led faction were marked SC/1332, SC/1334 and SC/8119, while the respondents are Ibrahim Umar and 22 other aggrieved APC factional members led by Magnus Abe. The appeals were, however, consolidated by the apex court. The appellants had asked the apex court to allow their appeals on the basis that the issue at stake was not a pre-election matter. But responding, H. A Bello, counsel to the respondents, said based on the doctrine of stare decisis, the appeals should be struck out, as they were statute-barred, having been filed out of time. Bello argued that the Supreme Court, having earlier sustained his preliminary objection in similar appeals, “it means that the issue is a pre-election matter, having not been filed within the stipulated time in accordance with the 4th alteration to the constitution. Ruling in the matter, Justice Amina Augie held that the Court of Appeal had struck out the application filed by the three appellants seeking leave to be joined as interested parties in the appeal. Justice Augie maintained that the three appellants were not parties at the Court of Appeal, and therefore lacked the locus to file an appeal. The five-man panel of the apex court stressed that the case at the Appeal Court had since been struck out, and that “the appellants have no legs to stand in law” or before the apex court. Consequently, the preliminary objection of the respondent “is hereby sustained,” Justice Augie held. Earlier, the apex court had struck out an appeal marked SC/1333 filed by the APC challenging its exclusion from participating in the forthcoming general elections in Rivers State. The APC had contended that the suit which gave rise to the appeal was not a pre-election matter. The apex court took arguments of counsel on February 11, and reserved Tuesday for ruling. However, ruling on a preliminary objection raised by the respondents – Ibrahim Umar and 22 other aggrieved members of APC – Justice Amiru Sanusi, in his lead judgment, said there was substance in the objection raised by the respondents. Consequently, the preliminary objection having been upheld, “the appeal is struck out,” Sanusi held. Justice Sanusi stated that the reasons for striking out the appeal would be given on a date to be announced to parties. In a unanimous decision, the five-man apex court panel, led by Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour, held that the judgment in APC’s appeal stands for the three other appeals filed by various interests challenging the exclusion of APC and its candidates from participating in the general elections on the basis that the issue was not a pre-election matter. Thus, by the decision of the apex court, Tonye Cole’s ambition of contesting the gubernatorial election in Rivers State has been dealt a fatal blow. Judgment Victory For Democracy, End Of APC In Rivers — Babatope Meanwhile, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of Transport, on Tuesday lauded the Supreme Court ruling on Rivers APC, saying it was a victory for democracy and rule of law. Babatope, a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the PDP, said the judgment had also signalled the end of APC in the state. He also expressed confidence that Governor Nyesom Wike would be re-elected as the next governor of Rivers state. “We are happy with the Supreme court judgment on Rivers today. With that judgment, the coast is clear for the PDP. “Once the verdict has been given at the Supreme Court, which is the highest court in the land, there is nothing APC can do again. “Governor Nyesom Wike has been campaigning and I am confident he will be re-elected as the next governor of Rivers State,” Babatope said. Also speaking on Saturday’s presidential election, Babatope said he was confident that the PDP and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, would win by a landslide. He also cautioned the APC against rigging the election, saying it might signal a crisis which the Federal Government may not be able to contain. “We are going to win by the grace of God. I am appealing to the APC not to rig. If they do, they will put themselves into perpetual problem. “Nigerians want the PDP back. They have experienced the APC and have now realised that only the PDP holds the key to a better life, economy and secure country for them,” he said.