Temidayo Akinsuyi, Mohammed Shosanya, Tony Ezimakor and Innocent Oweh President Muhammadu Buhari has raised the alarm that the presidential election slated for February 16 may be under threat, as some corrupt elements who are bent on clinching power by all means are mobilizing ill-gotten wealth to buy votes. He said the development may even threaten the nation’s democracy, especially as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has raised concerns over laundered money being funneled into vote buying. The president’s concern towards Saturday’s presidential election where he and the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar and other candidates are expected to slug it out was echoed in a statement he personally signed and made available to State House correspondents Sunday morning. “On February 16, Nigeria will hold a general election. Four years ago, the country experienced its first democratic transfer of power to the opposition since 1999. The vote in a few days will be no less significant. “As president, I have tried to judiciously exercise the trust vested in me to combat the problems of corruption, insecurity and an inequitable economy. All are important. But amongst them, one stands above the others as both a cause and aggravator of the rest. It is, of course, corruption. “A policy programme that does not have fighting corruption at its core is destined to fail. The battle against graft must be the base on which we secure the country, build our economy, provide decent infrastructure and educate the next generation. “This is the challenge of our generation: the variable on which our success as a nation shall be determined. But the vested interests at play can make this fight difficult. By way of their looting, the corrupt have powerful resources at their disposal. And they will use them. For when you fight corruption, you can be sure it will fight back. “It even threatens to undermine February’s poll and – by extension – our democracy. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has raised concerns over laundered money being funneled into vote buying. This is the problem of corruption writ large. It illustrates how it lurks in all and every crevice of public life, manipulating due process in pursuit of self-preservation and perpetuation; protecting personal political and economic interests at the expense of the common good”, Buhari said. According to the president, those who are criticising his administration’s anti-corruption drive are those who oppose its mission. “And though their lawyers may craft expensive alibis, they cannot escape that which binds them together: a raft of documents and barely legal (some clearly illegal) mechanisms – whether that be the Panama Papers, US Congress reports, shell companies or offshore bank accounts”, he said. The president argued that corruption corrodes the trust on which the idea of community is founded, because one rule for the few and another for everyone else is unacceptable to anyone working honestly. He said because he has intensified the war on corruption, he has found to his amazement that corruption innovates to resist the law. This is not the sole domain of those Nigerians, but the international corruption industry: the unsavoury fellow-traveler of globalization, he noted. “Once the enablers are let in – as they have been in the past – the greed of those they collude with grows. We have closed the door on them, but unfortunately there still remain individuals who are willing to open windows. “Concrete progress has been made, but there is still much to do. We have repatriated hundreds of millions of dollars stowed away in foreign banks. These funds have been transparently deployed on infrastructural projects and used to directly empower the poorest in society. “More is still to come from our international partners in France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Yet the hundreds of billions sifted out of the country for the best part of this century promise more. “We have secured high profile convictions, but greater cases remain. Lawyers table endless objections to obstruct court proceedings, whilst their clients hope it lasts until a ‘friendly’ president is voted into office. We must continue to tighten the legal framework and ensure the authorities have the investigative powers at their disposal to secure sentences. Only then will we begin to neutralise the advantages the corrupt have,” he noted. He vowed that more ghost workers would be removed from government payroll as almost $550 million has been saved from identifying phantom employees. In addition, more funds will be recovered through the whistle-blower policy as $370 million has been returned since its launch in 2016. “More is still to come. But, together, we shall prevail over corruption. A Yoruba proverb states that only the patient one can milk a lion. Likewise, victory over corruption is difficult, but not impossible. We must not flounder in our resolve. “I know many Nigerians would like to see faster action. So do I. But so too must we follow due process and exercise restraint, ensuring allegation never takes the place of evidence. For that is not the Nigeria we should wish to build. “There is no doubt that this administration has changed the way we tackle corruption. The choice before voters is this: Do we continue forward on this testing path against corruption? Or do revert to the past, resigned to the falsehood that it is just the-way-things-are-done? Or that it is just too difficult – too pervasive – to fix? I know which one I would choose. It is why I am asking Nigerians for another four years to serve them,” President Buhari pleaded in a lengthy text to Nigerians, ahead of next weekend polls. 2019 Elections, Nigeria’s Most Dreaded — Akinyemi Meanwhile, Prof. Bolaji Akinyemi, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, has described the forthcoming general elections as the most dreaded elections in the history of Nigeria. He disclosed this on Sunday in a statement to Daily Independent. He said: “Since I have been monitoring elections in Nigeria, I cannot remember any elections that filled me with so much dread and trepidation as these forthcoming elections. “Not even the riotous 1965 federal elections. And we all know what that led to.” He drew the attention of Nigerians to the latest development in Venezuela where the international community, under the United States, had accorded recognition to the opposition leader as the alternative president as their reaction to what it perceived as a flawed election. “This is promoting regime change by another route. This is the beginning not the end of the Venezuelan nightmare. Nigeria should by all means avoid a repetition of the Venezuelan nightmare in Nigeria,” he said. He enjoined political leaders to eschew violence, hate speeches, and any undemocratic behaviour during these elections. He added that the leaders should commit themselves publicly and loudly to free, fair, and transparent elections. According to him, this is the time for the nation’s leaders to commit themselves and their supporters to accepting the result of the elections if the results reflect the true wishes and intentions of the voters. He continued: “In case the elections are not free, fair and transparent, the loser should commit himself to using the tribunals and courts for redress, even though the judicial system is imperfect and under stress now. “Above all, there should be no recourse to violence whatever the provocation. “As someone who has led electoral observer teams to other countries for over a period of 40 years, I welcome and Nigeria should welcome the presence of the observer teams. They perform a useful role in elections all over the world. “Finally, the United States, the European Union, the International Criminal Court, in other words, the international community, have put us on notice as to their expectations. It is in our own good to listen to them.” Don’t Panic, FG Reassures Nigerians, Foreigners Again, with few days to the conduct of the 2019 general elections, the Federal Government on Sunday urged Nigerians not to panic as it has put plans in place to ensure the safety of both Nigerians as well as foreigners who will be monitoring the exercise. Speaking with Daily Independent, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, said he is reassuring Nigerians of government’s commitment towards ensuring that the elections will be free, fair and credible. “The Federal Government has made it very clear that there is no need to panic because the election will be peaceful and credible. “We are assuring all Nigerians to go about their businesses without fear. The Federal Government will try as much as possible to create a conducive environment and ensure the safety of everyone”, he said. The minister also said that he is confident that President Buhari will be reelected by appreciative Nigerians for a second term. He appealed to Nigerians to be vigilant and not yield the space to naysayers, adding that the gains made by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration in the past four years must be preserved. “This week is the week of decision for Nigeria. It is the week that the critical decision will be made as to whether Nigeria will continue along the path of development, in all ramifications (social, economic, political, etc), that this administration has embarked upon since 2015, or the country will retrogress and backslide to the throes of massive and primitive looting and lack of development.” APC Summons Special Meeting To Finalise Strategy As campaigns for presidential election enter the homestretch this week, the All Progressives Congress (APC) last night summoned a special meeting of its major organs to finalise its strategies to retain its hold on power. The meeting summoned by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party have in attendance all APC state chairmen and their secretaries, governorship and senatorial candidates of the party. It is not known whether it was an omission but House of Representatives and state assembly candidates were not invited to the special meeting. Aside from assessing the ongoing national campaign, the meeting would afford the party the opportunity to address a lot of pending issues including the recent decision of the Supreme Court on Rivers State and impending decision on Zamfara where the party is still facing challenges getting its candidates on the ballot. Also likely to come up is the fate of Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha, who was recently suspended by the party in the state.