Ibrahim Kiyawa is former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain and one-time House of Representatives member. In this interview, he spoke on his defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the situation in his home state. Excerpts: You were a strong PDP chieftain in Jigawa. Why did you defect to APC? I didn’t just leave now. I left the party since October last year. I left the PDP because of the injustice within the party. Virtually everything in the party was based on connection, not on merit.  You don’t need to have anything, once you know the leadership, you get whatever you desire, even if it is detrimental to the generality of the people. The party was being controlled by individuals. There is no way a party like PDP would be controlled by an individual and there won’t be problems. That is the problem the party is present enmeshed in. I thought having lost out in the 2015 elections, both in state and federal levels, we would have learnt our lessons. Going forward, a lot of things would have been more open and transparent such that when all these values were adhered to, even if you lose in any contest, you accept it without bitterness. But, in a situation where somebody manipulates ever process to his own advantage such that whatever he says or does must be adhered to, that is no longer democracy, but dictatorship. These are some of the issues that made me to cross to the ruling party where things are transparently done. You said injustice was a major reason you defected to the APC. Could you be more specific? There was a lot of impunity in PDP Jigawa. In any political party, you must carry every one along. That is why it is a party. Party is made up of people, not one person. The kind of treatment meted out to Yakubu Ruba is a bit different from mine. Ruba was prevented from contesting even when he bought forms.  Mine was totally different. I was the one taking absolute responsibility of the party immediately after we lost the general elections in 2015. I was the financing the party till when I eventually left it. My time, resources were expended on the party till 2018. It was an open knowledge that I wanted to contest for the governorship of the state on the platform of the party. The PDP was a strong party before the general elections. But, immediately after the election was lost, everybody deserted it. I had to take it over and nursed it to where it is now.  Now, before the primaries, the former governor of the state, Sule Lamido, swore that he was not going to interfere in the primaries. He said people would be allowed to participate freely, without manipulations and that he was not going to impose anybody. But, he breached that trust majority of us had in him. Why do you think APC is better than PDP? Things were done transparently in the APC. The crop of leaders you have in APC, from the governor to the party executives are sincere. These are the type of people we need in the polity, people who will respect the rule of law even if they are affected negatively. If the field is level to accommodate everyone, there won’t be rancor in political parties. That is the kind of what you see in Jigawa APC. That is why majority of the opposition party members are crossing over to the party. I also decided to join the party so I can operate freely.  I joined the party immediately after it had its primaries. So, I didn’t join so I could contest immediately. I joined the party to contribute my quota in helping the party, not only to win elections, but to improve the lives of the people.  I am not desperate to be leader. I am not in APC for contracts. I am in APC to build relationships because on the long run, I will also benefit from the party’s goodwill. What are the APC’s chances in the coming elections? The election is already won and lost. Everywhere the governor went to campaign, it was a massive turn out. The amount of work this administration has done in the last three and half years far outweighs what PDP did in eight years. The presidential election victory will rub off on us. Even without the presidential election, with the level of achievements already on ground, APC will win with landslide victory.