Donald Trump Jr. and Vanessa Trump are officially exes, PEOPLE confirms. In a joint statement on Friday, the president’s eldest son and his wife of more than 13 years said they actually finalized their divorce agreement “at the end of last year.” The two wed in November 2005 and share five children. “We are incredibly lucky to have five amazing children and are committed to raising them together,” they said. “Our kids and their happiness will always be our first priority.” Don Jr. and Vanessa, both 41, split when she filed for divorce last March. They have since maintained a cordial relationship, spending time together at the president’s Mar-a-Lago Club in Florida and at the White House’s annual Easter Egg roll in April and exchanging well-wishes on Mother’s Day and Father’s Day. Their divorce, however, was less clear-cut than their separation. Originally listed as uncontested, the divorce switched to contested in late July, the Associated Press reported. A “contested” divorce means that parties do not agree on all issues, such as division of marital assets, child custody, and child support payments. Details of their subsequent agreement were not immediately available on Friday. Financial matters not only played out in the divorce proceedings but may have served as a catalyst for the initial separation. In May, Page Six reported that Vanessa had inherited millions of dollars from her late father’s investment in Rao’s Speciality Foods, a business known for the restaurant’s famous marinara sauce. According to Page Six, her “family’s newfound financial security” “emboldened” Vanessa to divorce her husband. Top New York City divorce attorney Raoul Felder told PEOPLE in June that Don Jr. could not touch Vanessa’s marinara-sauce windfall in the divorce proceedings. “The statute says that third-party gifts, or money you get from third parties directly, is not included in a marital pot,” Felder explained. “So she is absolutely secure.” Don Jr. is now dating former Fox News host Kimberly Guilfoyle, who moved from the network to America First, a super PAC supporting President Donald Trump. Vanessa expressed her support of her ex-husband’s budding romance in early June, tweeting, “The lengths people will go to attack a woman simply because she’s dating Don.” “We’ve been separated for over nine months and respect each other’s decisions & privacy,” Vanessa wrote then. “We’ll focus on raising our great kids. Would be nice if the press did the same rather than obsess over our pvt lives!”