Lagos – After finishing fourth at the just concluded 2019 Africa U20 Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Niamey, Niger Republic, there are strong indications that officials of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) will overhaul the Flying Eagles team ahead of the FIFA U20 World Cup in Poland. Barr. Seyi Akinwunmi, first Vice President of the NFF and Nigeria’s leader of delegation to Niger Republic was of the view that the team needs overhauling in order to achieve success in Poland. “The team at the just concluded AFCON in Niger Republic was not a bad one but its need overhauling if the country must achieve success in Poland. “We’ve noticed some loopholes during the 2019 AFCON and the technical crew will need to correct those loopholes while the NFF as a body, will also need to give support to the team in terms of overhauling”, Akinwunmi was quoted. It would be recalled that once more, penalty shoot –out proved the undoing of coach Paul Aigbogun’s said as South Africa’s Amajita picked up the bronze medals of the competition on Saturday. Failure to put away a number of opportunities that came their way proved fatal for the seven –time champions, who endured the humiliation of finishing outside the medals’ range at the tournament for the very first time. Peter Eletu, who was starting for the first time as the Nigerian camp tried to lift the morale of the boys following Wednesday’s penalty shoot-out defeat to Mali in the semi finals, fluffed what was a good opportunity in the 32nd minute when the ball fell invitingly to him just outside the Amajita’s 18th-yard box during an onslaught. He instead hooked the ball listlessly over the bar. The unflattering features of poor passes, aimless shots and pathetic lack of marksmanship that saw the team end up with the wrong end of the stick on Wednesday were again in full flow, and the encounter was a stinging reminder of the fact that Aigbogun and his assistants have to re-jig the squad before the World Cup finals in Poland in three months’ time.