The Federal Government and Dangote Industries Limited yesterday flagged off the reconstruction of the roads and bridges in Ofeme Community of Abia State. The construction of the road would be handled by AG-Dangote, a subsidiary of Dangote Industries Limited. The project is covered under Executive Order No 7 of 2019, titled Road Infrastructure Development and Refurbishment Investment Tax Credit Scheme, where “Participating investors will use tax credits to reduce corporate taxes payable to government until they recoup the value of their investments in roads and bridges.” Speaking at the flag off event, Aliko Dangote President, Dangote Industries Limited, extolled the Federal Government for the executive order No 7, which allowed private sector intervention in the provision of critical infrastructure. Dangote who was represented by Mr. Okoro George, the South South Regional Director of Dangote Cement, said a new dawn was coming to Ofeme community as the deplorable state of their roads would soon be a thing of the past. He explained that the 16-kilometre road would form a ring road around Ofeme and connect it at two points to the Enugu Port Harcourt Expressway, while the two bridges connecting the town to other communities would be rebuilt. According to him, “the entire road network will be built on concrete pavement instead of earth pavement which gives a lifespan of about 40 years, will contain drains on both sides while the surface will be made of concrete also instead of asphalt.” He added that AG-Dangote had established itself as a construction company of repute having delivered the 26-kilometre Ibese-Itori concrete road in Ogun State, the two kilometre Apapa-Wharf dual carriage concrete road, the ongoing 43-kilometre Obajana-Kabba concrete road and the 35-kilometre Apapa-Oworonshoki Expressway. Dangote Group, he said, pioneered the use of concrete for road construction in Nigeria, adding “countries that have achieved self-sufficiency in cement production have found it expedient to adopt the construction of concrete roads because they are cheaper, more durable and environment friendly. I believe Nigeria should not be an exception. We must move with the times.”