Christian Nwokocha, Vincent Anolu Owerri – Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has been declared winner of Imo West Senatorial (Orlu) zone by INEC returning officer for the area, Professor Francis Ibeabuchi, despite allegations of massive rigging. Upon declaration of the controversial senatorial result in favour of Governor Okorocha at the collation centre in Orlu Local Government Area of the state, Professor Ibeabuchi was quoted as saying that he was coerced and given mutilated results by the governor and the police to announce same in favour of Okorocha. The embattled incumbent deputy governor of the state, Prince Eze Madumere, confirmed the allegation in a statement he forwarded to Daily Independent in Owerri. Ibeabuchi, the returning officer for Imo West Senatorial District, revealed on Monday that he was “detained at the centre for days”. He said this while announcing the results of the senatorial election for the zone. Before reeling out figures at the district collation centre in the INEC office in Orlu, Ibeabuchi said he was being held “under duress” to announce the results. He said: “My name is Ibeabuchi Izuchukwu Innocent, a professor at the Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO), the returning officer for Imo West (Orlu) senatorial zone. “My area commander, my P.Os, the party agents here present, members of the press, ladies and gentlemen. “I have been held hostage here for days so I’m trying to ease off and take my life home back to my children and for the sake of that I am calling these results under duress.” He then began to reel out the results, but after announcing nine out of 12 local government areas that made up the zone, he paused. The time was 9:45p.m. on Sunday. Three LGA results were being awaited to finalise results for Imo West District. They are Oru West, Ugwuta, and Orlu. The outgoing governor of the state, Okorocha, who ran under the All Progressives Congress (APC), won in eight of the nine local government areas announced earlier. Ibeabuchi said he received an urgent call from the state’s Resident Electoral Commission (REC), Francis Ezeonu, to return to Owerri and continue the process Monday morning. But Okorocha’s supporters insisted the returning officer “must complete” the announcement, “otherwise, he is not going anywhere.” They blocked the professor from leaving the building. They refused to yield even when police officers intervened. For hours, the APC agents who initially hauled verbal threats at the returning officer, resorted to pleading, but Ibeabuchi stuck to his guns. He remained unmoved even after Okorocha and his closest rival, Jones Onyeriri of the Peoples Democratic Party, visited the centre at different intervals on Monday morning. Ibeabuchi would later yield and declare Okorocha winner of the election. He said the governor polled 97,762 votes while Onyeriri returned second with 63,117 votes. Okorocha’s old rival and former senator, Osita Izunaso, came third with 30,932 votes. It was not immediately clear why Ibeabuchi initially refused to announce the remaining results on Sunday night but later did on Monday “under duress.” When contacted, INEC spokesperson in the state, Emmanuella Opara, said the commission was following the development and had sent security personnel to bring Ibeabuchi to Owerri. “Let him come back here with his report and tell us what happened.” Okorocha Accepts Victory, Slams Returning Officer In his acceptance speech, Governor Okorocha congratulated Imo people, and the people of Imo West Senatorial District in particular, on his victory in the election, assuring them that he won’t take the victory for granted. Governor Okorocha who spoke to newsmen shortly after he was declared winner of the election expressed worries over the attitude of the returning officer in the exercise. The governor said: “What baffles me is the attitude of the returning officer in this our exercise. It looks to me that there was a script being played out, which is coming to me as a rude shock, especially the manner elections here have been conducted in Imo State. “May I put it straight that if election was conducted the way it should be and in line with our constitution and Electoral Act, we would have won the entire election. “What we see here is a lot of people changing the rule and doing certain things to favour a particular party in the state.” The governor added: “I find it a bit surprising because right now, as I speak, results are not being collated the way it should be. “The centres provided by the constitution is not being used, rather the INEC boss is making other arrangements not really clear to me, because as the result gets there, it is being changed. As I speak to you now, there are attempts to change the president’s results.” He continued: “On my own elections, after having recorded victory in 9 out of the 12 local government areas announced, we heard that they are now trying to move the result sheets to Owerri, but when we inquired why, the man said he is tired and doesn’t feel safe, when nobody was threatening him. “At the end, we discovered he doesn’t have the declaration sheet. I wonder where this is taking us to. I hope INEC would change this system because we will resist them if they try it in the next election.” According to the governor, “They should examine the returning officer to know his mental state. If he is not mental, then he must be a criminal to ever think of that. “How could someone ask you to change the result of an election he has already won? My score is above 90,000 and the nearest to me is slightly above half of it. “When you combine both Jones and Izunaso’s votes, they can’t match or contest against me in Imo State not to talk of Orlu zone. Am I even supposed to contest for Senate in Orlu? I never campaigned but only declared and campaigned for 3 days. “I ask the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner here to quickly correct these anomalies. The Returning Officer is a bloody liar who may be acting a script. I enjoin him to return the money he may have collected from those who understand only rigging in election.”