Lagos – Mohammed Adamu, acting Inspector General of Police (IGP) would have lost the opportunity but for sheer providence as he was said to be a victim of circumstances. Credible sources at the Force Headquarters say his stars started beaming at the presidency since middle of 2017, as a credible material for the plum job of IGP, and a likely successor to immediate past IGP, Ibrahim Kpotun Idris from Niger State. However, Kpotun Idris, who got wind of the plans by the presidency was said to have mounted surveillance on Adamu, who was Assistant Inspector-General (AIG) of Police in charge of Zone 5 Police Command, with headquarters in Benin City, Edo State capital. His alleged surveillance was to cage Adamu from being noticed by the presidency. And by October 2017, INDEPENDENT newspaper under ground investigations on Idris’ suspected atrocities that may lead to his possible sack, and likely replacement with Adamu was published. That story confirmed Idris’ information that the presidency was considering Adamu as his likely successor. And excogitating of a strategy to finally caging Adamu’s star from public glare and from being noticed again by the presidency, Idris got a clue of deploying him to National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru near Jos, Plateau State, as Directing Staff. The following month, November 20, about two weeks after Independent publication, Adamu got a signal deploying him to NIPSS. According to sources at the Police, who pleaded anonymity, the action by the former IG was to ensure total blackout about information about Adamu. “Usually, when you are posted to such a place, you are almost on your way out, except by providence, which sometimes could be driven or actualized by hard work and good track records,” says one of the sources. However, like a sheep without a shepherd, Adamu quietly moved to NIPSS, taking solace in God to bring his destiny to fruition. Investigations revealed that even at NIPSS, Adamu was still under surveillance As fate would have it Adamu was still in the good books of President Buhari and most favoured by top APC members. Other sources said that Adamu was not particularly trilled when he got the information of his likely successor of Idris, but was said to have been prevailed by some friends, both within and outside the force. “He felt more comfortable to staying longer in service through going through the ladder. After all, he feels he has more years serving as an AIG and DIG and possibly remaining apolitical,” says another source. But, on January 14, 2019, Adamu’s shining star finally blazed out, when the presidency announced him as the acting Inspector-General of Police