Hon. Charles Anike, an activist and political analyst, is the National President of Eastern Union (EU), a socio-political pressure group for the interests of the people of the Old Eastern Nigeria. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on crucial issues relating to the 2019 general elections. Excerpt Last week’s postponement of the Presidential and National Assembly as well as Governorship and State House of Assembly elections is still generating discussions across the country. How do you feel about the development? I am still very shocked by that insensitive and inhuman decision by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the All Progressives Congress (APC), the ruling party. I am very sure most Nigerians and even people from other parts of the world would be shocked, wondering and asking what kind of country Nigeria is? This is the same INEC whose chairman had at many fora claimed that everything was ready, even till early hours of the election day. Then after people had closed shops, schools and offices, they began to talk of logistics. In a normal society, the INEC Chairman would have resigned and then face prosecution for a criminal breach of contract and public peace. Well, the bitter truth is that we have seen the hand of Esau in the whole thing that transpired.  It is unheard of that someone will just give a flimsy excuse and hold the nation to ransom. Why shouldn’t the INEC envisage all those things even a day before the election day? How could someone announce postponement of a national election; Presidential election for that matter, just some few hours before the commencement? If Prof. Mahmood Yakubu will be courageous and honest enough, he will confess that some powerful forces beyond his control compelled him to postpone the elections. I can tell you that the APC government has over a period dragged the name of Nigeria to the mud, more than any other administration since independence. President Muhammadu Buhari and his cabals have become bulls in the Chinese shop of Nigeria that must be carefully shown the way out, or else, they will destroy everything. The whole world and even God is watching the APC and INEC. President Buhari have just one more opportunity of becoming a hero like his predecessor, Goodluck Jonathan, and that is, for him to be courageous to also call Abubakar Atiku  on phone to congratulate him after the February 23 Presidential election. The President should shun the shameless cabals, the same way Jonathan did to take that bold and courageous decision that saved many lives and has remained a reference to this and future generations of Nigerians. This President need to retire in dignity if he so wishes. Remember, he has only one chance left to become a hero like ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. Could you give some of what you consider as the implications of the shift? The possible implications are too many to mention. The immediate and direct implications are that many people that travelled far in order to cast their votes, will automatically be disenfranchised, as they may not afford to stay back for additional one week. Also, the shift will make Nigerians to develop a likadiscal attitude towards the processes, thereby forcing us to record low turnout or serious voter apathy. The shift will also give room to exposure the sensitive voting materials that were originally secured in the Central Bank, but were dispatched to locations. The shift will give the government in power undue advantage since it controls the security agencies that guard the voting materials. The shift has a lot of financial implications on the parties, especially the candidates, because most of the political parties as well as the candidates would have already committed a lot of money for the final processes, which they have to do again, like payment of party agents. Also, the shift could give room for serous insecurity because of the tension the postponement has created. A good example is the case in Southern Kaduna and Akwa Ibom states respectively. The possible negative implications of the criminal shift/postponement of the elections are too many to mention. As one can see, the ruling party is trying to smuggle in APC candidates in Zamfara State into the system, after the courts had restrained the INEC from doing so. Before now, a cross section of Nigerians had been expressing fears over the capability of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to give the nation free, fair and credible elections. Would you say that with the shift, such fears were justified? The fear of Nigerians over INEC capability of giving them credible elations is not only justified, but is confirmed. Recall that the present INEC under the headship of Prof Mahmood Yakubu is well known by Nigerians for its inconclusive elections in the past. The truth is that many Nigerians were waiting for their usual drama of inconclusive elections. We saw the drama at Edo, Ondo, Ekiti and Osun states respectively. All these have made many Nigerians to be weary of the present INEC and we have lost total confidence in them. The truth of the matter is that Prof Mahmood Yakubu is not enjoying the kind of freedom and independence his predecessor, Prof Attahiru Jega, enjoyed under ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. At every point in time, the APC government is always showing and proving the popular saying that, “He who pays the piper always dictates the tune.” If not for the kind of our society, believe me, Prof Mahmood should have resigned to save his name. One thing very clear is that every rigging plans of the APC were uncovered, and that was the main reason the elections were postponed at the wee hours. You have heard of the people caught in Kano, Abia and some other places with bags of already thumb-printed ballot papers. They forgot that most of the people in the opposition today were with them in APC when they rigged the 2015 general elections. The truth is that nothing and absolutely nothing can rescue the APC in the present circumstance. Therefore, we advise the ruling party to take courage, accept their fate and then start preparing their hand over notes, from the Presidency down to the states. The reality of their four years of misrule, recklessness, fragrant disobedient to the rule of law and many more, are staring them on their faces. And there is nothing Prof. Yakubu and the INEC cabals and the security agents can do to change the collective decision of the Nigerian people to send them packing and usher in a new era of hope and progress of our dear country Nigeria. Any further attempt by the INEC or anyone to scuttle the Nigerian people’s decisions will consume such person. There were some violence during the political campaigns during which lives were lost and the fear that the elections might be tumultuous. What is your take on this development? The spate of violence and deaths clearly shows that we, as a people have no regard for the sanctity of human blood. Most of our political leaders are simply occultic and blood thirsty. And mind you, their children and wards are usually not in the country. Even when they are in the country, they will never attend political rallies or expose themselves to dangers. I am yet to see any other Nigerian politician that will declare in sincerity like ex-President Goodluck Jonathan that his political ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian. All we have from North to South are politicians who see politics as a do-or-die. They empower the youths with guns and other dangerous weapons and make utterances that will always spark off violence. This situation has become worse since the APC government came to power. They pretend to preach peace and talk of hate speech, but that has been their only weapon of war. You can see most of their rallies always ended up in fiasco, to the extent that a whole President of Nigeria was pelted with stones and sachet water at Ogun State and some other places. Was that not a clear indication that this President is no longer popular and has lost too much ground. One thing is certain and that is; whatsoever a man sowed, he must reap. And also evil that men do will always live with them and after them. In 2014 and 2015, they were shooting from both end at the PDP government of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, without knowing that one day, it will be their turn. Unfortunately, it is the blood of the improvised and innocent Nigerian youths that are being shed all the while. What is your take on the capability of security agencies to guarantee free and fair elections, including malpractices? To a very large extent, I think the security agencies will be fair to all in the coming elections. The retirement of the former Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, was divine and a welcomed development. Since then, we have seen some positive steps by the new IGP through his appointments and postings of police commissioners and other high ranking officers. However, there are still some places where serious adjustments need to be made. There are some states where the police boss needs to be seriously put under watch due to their alliances with the politicians. A good example is Kwara State. We still believe that the security agents cannot frustrate the concluded decision of the Nigerian people to vote out the APC government. More so, now that the bad shape of our economy is affecting both the Army and Police alike. It will only be a foolish and hopeless security agent that will accept to be used against the Nigerian people. There is no doubt that the use of the security agents to rig the elections is the Plan A of the ruling APC government. But, it will surely backfire like every other plans because the Nigerian people are ready to vote and guard their votes, even after elections. Moreover, many political parties and even some civil society organisations (CSOs) have set up their Situation Rooms to monitor and collate election results technologically. Our organisation, the Eastern Union, has put our own measures in place to monitor the elections and collate results and I can assure you that we are advancing. So, security agents are advised to be neutral and remain neutral for their own interest and for the overall interest of Nigeria. What are the underlying factors that would determine the shape of the elections in Imo State in particular and South East in general? The factors that would determine the shape of the elections in Imo State as a case study is the people’s willingness and determination for emancipation. Among the states of South East, Imo State has been very very unfortunate since this Fourth Republic. The successive leadership has been manned by men without clear pedigree. Those that are commonly referred to as 419iers had always found their way to the Douglas House. And if you look at the present line-up, they still dominate the arena. And I can tell you that it is only in Imo State that these men are waxing strong in politics. So, we believe this is the time the Imo state citizens will chose either to remain under these men of questionable source of wealth and prominence, or they choose to set a new agenda for themselves and the future generations of Imolites. The Eastern Union members in the state are already joining forces to change the tide. With respect to other states of the South East, we have agreed on where we are going, especially with respect to the Presidency. Other dissident voices you are hearing are from men that have over the years lost their political relevance in the zone, and are now trying to get help from outside. For us they are charlatans and people of no consequence and we are not threatened by their use of federal might. The truth is that we cannot betray or look away from our brother, Dr. Peter Obi, and our in-law, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, for whatever reason. We look forward for a new Nigeria comes February  23, so we can get Nigeria working again by the grace of God.