The Commissioner in the High Commission of the United Republic of Tanzania, Mr. Muhidini Ally Mboweto has sought the assistance of Alhaji Aliko Dangote in the development of his country’s energy sector, specifically petroleum. The commissioner, who led a delegation from Tanzania High Commission and the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) on a study tour of the Dangote Refinery and Fertiliser plants to seek collaboration between Dangote Group and the Tanzanian Government in making the country self-sufficient in petroleum products, said his country needed similar investment. Specifically, the ambassador appealed to Dangote to replicate his huge investment in the country’s cement and refinery industries into Tanzania’s petroleum refining sector. Speaking after the tour of the refinery and fertiliser plants, Mboweto said Tanzania possessed vast natural resources and endowed with unique comparative advantages, thereby offering exceptionally attractive opportunities to investors. The ambassador flaunted Tanzania’s minerals potential which are gas, gold, diamonds, and gemstones including tanzanite, base metals and a host of other minerals and disclosed that Tanzania has bilateral trade agreements with eight countries it shares borders with including the Indian Ocean, describing them as potential markets for investors. He stated: “Tanzania has a politically stable economy; it is surrounded by eight countries and six are landlocked, so their ports depend on Tanzania. Also, we are member to East Africa Community, which include Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda. We are also part of 16-country members with an average of 400 million people. So, when invest you in Tanzania, you are exposed to these huge potential. “It is really worth investing in Tanzania because it will expose you to a large market. We want him (Dangote) to expand his investment in other areas of the economy. We have varieties of minerals, diamond, gold and other areas. You can invest in wildlife. We also have a lot of tourist attractions”, the High Commissioner added. He commended Dangote for helping to reduce the price of cement in Tanzania through his massive investment in the country’s cement industry. Mr. Modestus Martin Lumato, Production Manager, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation, also called on Aliko Dangote to partner the Tanzania oil company to set up a refinery plant in the country. He said about six countries are depending on Tanzania for petroleum products, thereby the need for the collaboration between the two countries. “The Tanzanian petroleum product market is huge. We are also looking forward to buying petroleum products from Nigeria when the refinery is completed,” he added. Presenting the status of the refinery project, Rama Rao Putta, Head, Quality Assurance/Quality Control, Dangote Oil Refinery Company Limited, disclosed that erection of the refinery equipment has started. Putta described the project as the largest single train petroleum refinery in the world with capacity to process 650,000 barrels per day of crude oil. He said the refinery would lead to the protection of forex revenue of around $16 billion a year at current market prices and saving of $10 billion a year through domestic supplies of petroleum products.