Abuja – The presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) have been accused of arm-twisting security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rig Saturday presidential and National Assembly elections. Accusing the National Chairman of APC of being a master rigger, the party rejected the alleged plot to impose APC members as Electoral Officers (EOs) in various critical states with APC agents, who will allegedly execute President Buhari’s rigging plans. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, PDP spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “After the widely condemned rigging machinations by the Buhari presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) that frustrated our electoral process and led to the painful postponement of the February 16 presidential election, the fear stricken Buhari presidency has launched a more ferocious plot with INEC and security agencies to ambush the rescheduled elections and foist General Muhammadu Buhari on our nation.” Enumerating some of the plans of APC to rig the election, Ologbondiyan said: “Since the postponement, the Buhari presidency and APC have been breathing down on the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in a desperate and feverish bid to consolidate their control of the operations of the commission and execute its rigging plot.” He explained that at a meeting held in Buhari’s presidency/APC situation room at the Presidential Villa, last night, some key APC stakeholders were directed to issue out result sheets to APC agents to falsify and declare results in favour of the APC. “Intelligence at our disposal reveals that the INEC chairman has succumbed to back channel bullying by the Buhari presidency and APC to accede to their demand to replace Electoral Officers (EOs) in various critical states with APC agents who will vehemently execute President Buhari’s rigging plans in the February 23, presidential election. “Also our party has full details of how the Department of State Services (DSS) has been interfering with operations of critical departments of INEC, including the ICT department, to do APC bidding. “The PDP also has details of the meeting last night by President Buhari, some APC Northern governors and service chiefs, whereupon pressure was mounted on the service chiefs in connection with the APC rigging plans. “We alert Nigerians that the INEC chairman has been intimidated with threat of ‘Onnoghen’s treatment’ to accept a list of APC members and agents and post them to serve as EOs in various states including Kano, Kaduna, Rivers, Bauchi, Akwa-Ibom, Zamfara, Benue, Sokoto, Lagos, Plateau, Taraba, Borno, Adamawa, Kogi, Delta, Ebonyi, among others. “These APC EOs have been briefed to ensure the diversion of sensitive electoral materials from designated polling centers, delay the accreditation process, so as to frustrate voters’ enthusiasm, compromise the collation process to allocate and announce fictitious results for President Buhari and muddle up the process to pave way for result cancellation where it becomes impossible to rig for President Buhari,” he said. Explaining the alleged reason behind the killing order issued by President Buhari, Ologbondiyan said: “The PDP stands with Nigerians in directly rejecting this latest arm twisting of security agencies as well as the nefarious plots to use APC members as INEC election officers. “It is now clearer that the election day killing order issued by President Buhari is designed to clamp down and even kill patriotic Nigerians who will want to confront and stop the APC from executing their rigging plots on the day of election.” The party assured INEC, security agents, and President Buhari that their evil plans would definitely come to naught, adding that Nigerians are now, more than ever before, determined in rallying with PDP to confront, resist, and stop President Buhari and the APC in their trail to rig the February 23 election. “Nigerians in their millions, across the 176,000 polling units and voting points, have been placed on readiness for this election and nobody can rig them out. “Let it be known that there is no way APC members will be allowed to act as INEC or fake security officers in this election. The vehement public resistance that greeted INEC’s attempt to replace already trained ad-hoc staff with APC agents in some states last Friday is a direct warning to INEC. “The PDP therefore cautions INEC to immediately end its back channel links and disentangle itself from the Buhari presidency or risk being on collusion course with the Nigerian people,” the PDP spokesman said.