A week to the beginning of the general elections, the office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Qua’anpan Local Government Area of Plateau has been gutted by fire. Osaretin Imahiyereobo, Head, Voter Education and Publicity of the commission in the state, told newsmen on Sunday in Jos that the incident occurred on Saturday night. “It is true that our office in Qua’anpan has been gutted by fire caused by the negligence of a security man on duty who didn’t know how to operate the generator but wanted to put it on. “The office is completely burnt to ashes with all the valuables in it destroyed. “Items such as ballot boxes, generators filled with fuel, cubicles, newly printed electronic and manual voters register, uncollected Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs), materials for the preparations of RAC and other valuable materials were affected,” he said. IGP Orders Tight Security At INEC Offices, Facilities Meanwhile, ahead of the fast approaching general elections, Mohammed Adamu, the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), has ordered a comprehensive water-tight and round-the-clock security for all INEC offices and facilities nationwide. In a statement on Sunday by Frank Mba, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) and Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, Adamu said the Commissioners of Police in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have been directed to put in place adequate, functional and purposeful security arrangements aimed at protecting all INEC offices and materials from all forms of crimes and mischief- before, during and after the elections. “Also, the Zonal Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) have also been mandated to monitor compliance level of commands under their jurisdiction with this directive, and ensure that no breach of security of any kind occurs within and around INEC facilities under their watch. The order takes immediate effect”, the statement noted. Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police has assured Nigerians of the readiness of the police to deliver on its mandate of providing a safe and enabling environment for the conduct of the general election. He reiterated the commitment of the force to providing a level playing field for all political actors, while remaining professional and apolitical in the discharge of its responsibilities.