ABUJA – Never to be restrained from raising the alarm on national issues, Timi Frank, former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday, alleged plot to bomb headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He claimed that plot by unnamed anti-democratic forces was geared towards destabilizing the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections. Frank, who linked the impending attack on INEC’s head office to similar recent arson attacks on the Commission’s facilities across the country, also alleged that three serving ministers from the Niger Delta in APC administration and two unnamed business men are linked to the plot. “Following postponement of the February 16 polls and realizing that the plan for staggered elections may have been busted, these desperate political crooks are at it again, devising yet another grand plan to carry out this evil plot against the Nigerian people. “Starting off with the burning of the INEC office in Quan-Pam, Plateau State, to the burning of card readers in Anambra State, to the burning of INEC materials in five buses at Akwa Ibom and other INEC facilities nationwide. “It will be safe, therefore, to note that these events are not a coincidence, but rather a grand plot to disenfranchise the opposition strongholds, which is currently underway. “Having realized that the grand scheme of rigging the polls may have been busted by the INEC chairman giving to the postponement of the elections, these desperadoes are bent on doing everything possible in achieving their aim, including truncating our hard-earned democracy for selfish gains. “We are also aware that the services of some Niger Delta militants are being sought after in carrying out this dastardly act, even at a time when the region is being faced with its worst times under the current administration.” “These militants are being promised backing of the military authorities, as well as being rewarded handsomely should they succeed in carrying out these attacks. “I am, therefore, urging all true sons of the Niger Delta to desist forthwith from allowing themselves to be used by these agents of darkness, as no true son of the region will volunteer for such doom, irrespective of any pecuniary gains. “I would like to thank our foreign partners (EU, UK, U.S., ECOWAS Monitoring Group) on the electoral roles already carried out in Nigeria and also urge the U.S., UK and the EU to continue with its good works and to further beam its searchlight on Nigeria in the wake of this grave revelation at a time when the country prepares for its general elections. “The desperation by these individuals for their paymasters is as deadly as treason committed on the Nigerian nation. Furthermore, if this plot is true, then we may be faced with the likely scenario of the “body bags” as suggested by a chieftain of the ruling party on all who may be present at the INEC office, including the foreign observers.” Against this development, Frank called on security agencies to beef up security and surveillance around the INEC Headquarters and pleaded with the INEC chairman to remain resolute in delivering his trust and mandate to the Nigerian people on February 23. “We are aware of the happenings in INEC, including the role to be played by Amina Zakari, who is now in charge of Collation and RACTEC unit under the IT Department. Let it be known that any move to frustrate the wishes of Nigerians will be resisted by all peace loving citizens.”