Abuja – The joint international observation mission of the International Republican Institute (IRI) and National Democratic Institute (NDI) have urged political parties and candidates in the February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections to seek redress in courts on electoral disputes. The foreign observers also called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to release results of the exercise without further delay. Releasing their preliminary report at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja on Monday, the observers also called on politicians to preach peace by ensuring that the processes were concluded in a peaceful atmosphere, even as they identified grey areas in the elections. At the same venue, the African Union Observation Mission (AUEOM) made important observations and gave recommendations on how to conduct better elections in the country. The mission was led by former Ethiopian Prime Minister, Hailemariam Desalegn; head of the mission, and former vice president, The Gambia, Mrs. Fatoumata Tambajang, who led the Joint International Observer team of the International Republican Institute (IRI) National Democratic Institute (NDI) and other contributors. According to Desalegn, “While congratulating INEC for being open and cooperative with electoral observers, the mission urged INEC to expeditiously and transparently collate and announce the results of the presidential and National Assembly elections as required by Nigerian electoral laws.” He called on INEC to keep improving election management so as to address the incessant postponement of elections through proper planning and execution of election logistics and operations. He said the commission should strengthen the capacity of polling staff through training on assisting voters, counting, and other electoral procedures. The mission also called on political parties and young people to leverage the opportunity created by the Not-Too-Young-To-Run Act to increase political participation and representation. Team leader, Desalegn urged Nigerians and other stakeholders to act responsibly in the use of social media and refrain from disseminating false information on the elections, particularly the results. Desalegn noted that the 2019 presidential and National Assembly elections provided an opportunity for the consolidation of democracy in Nigeria. He said, “The AUEOM observed that the political space has broadened as evidenced by the high number of political parties and candidates that took part in the elections. “Furthermore, the mission is impressed by the patience and resilience demonstrated by Nigerians during the elections. “Overall, the process was largely peaceful and orderly and in conformity with Nigeria’s legal framework.” He pleaded with candidates and supporters to commit themselves to the peace accords they had signed. “In the spirit of cooperation and solidarity, political parties and candidates are urged to uphold the commitment to peaceful elections and resolution of disputes in keeping with the two peace accords signed in December 2018 and February 2019. “They are further urged to call on their supporters to remain calm and peaceful and refrain from any action that might incite post-election violence. In case of any grievances over the election results, political parties and candidates are encouraged to use the legal instruments at their disposal to seek redress,” he stressed. On its part, the NDI/IRI mission, in its recommendation read by President, IRI, US, Daniel Twining, urged Nigerians to address the immediate and longer-term challenges to inclusive and credible elections, particularly for the March 9 state level elections. The IRI/NDI mission said government should ensure adequate security to support and protect INEC deployment and voter engagement, intensify communication and outreach to the Nigerian public and relevant stakeholders in the electoral process; improve plans for distribution of sensitive election materials such as ballot papers and result sheets; ensure ad hoc polling staff are adequately trained on polling procedures and to fully implement the disability framework by ensuring that all polling units are accessible to persons with disabilities. They urged political parties to respect the rule of law and call on supporters to remain peaceful before, during, and after the elections, and adhere to the announcement of results. The NDI/IRI mission tasked the government of Nigeria to immediately, after the 2019 elections, pursue a comprehensive and inclusive electoral reform process that draws upon the recommendations made by the Uwais Commission and the Nnamani Committee.