Chioke, who released the report with the theme: ‘An Economic Agenda for A New Government’ said banks are afraid of taking risks with their funds. He said: “Four years after the 2015 general elections, Nigeria proceeds to the polls again in 2019 to determine its leadership for Sub-nationals and the Presidency. In predictable fashion, the political environment is heating up, new alliances are emerging and defections across the biggest parties have punctuated the polity. These events are evidence of the prevailing political risk factor in Nigeria, creating uncertainty in the environment, with potential impacts on business and investor confidence”. He said the election fears have also led to drop in foreign direct investments entering the country. He projected that growth would reach 2.1 per cent year-on-year in 2018, revised downwards from initial expectation of 2.6 per cent, given the slower than expected recovery in the non-oil sector. “To achieve this, we believe that increased spending ahead of the 2019 elections will support non-oil sector activities, while increased oil output due to an additional 0.2 million barrels per day from the Egina Oil Field will drive oil sector growth,” he said. Continuing, he said economic performance so far reveals that it continues to trail its long-term growth performance and levels seen prior to the recession. “Indeed, more worrying is the fact that growth remains below population growth, which indicates that people have grown poorer on average, and this trend will persist into 2020. In our opinion, breaking out of this cycle requires structural reforms, without which investment and growth will remain poor,” Chioke stated. However, the GTBank report noted that the impact of flooding on communities and farmlands, and escalation of farmers-herders crisis had a negative impact on foods production and therefore food inflation. It, however, anticipated higher inflation this year. “The recent convergence in exchange rates, the rise in food prices, new minimum wage and increased government and election related spending are expected to weigh on the general price levels over the near term. We expect headline inflation to come in at an average of 13.5 per cent in 2019. “Going into 2019, we expect monetary policy to remain contractionary, given the overarching concerns of maintaining exchange rate stability. “We expect that the current monetary policy variables will be maintained in 2019, while Open Market Operations (OMO) by the CBN will be sustained. “In 2019, we expect that the CBN will sustain its interventions in the FX market in a bid to ensure that rates remain relatively stable into the elections and sustain its price stability objectives. Commenting on Nigeria’s rising debt profile, the report noted that the potential capacity of the country to repay as highlighted by its debt-to-GDP ratio of 19 per cent has been questioned in many quarters, as less important than debt-to-revenue of 65 per cent, which measures ability to the repay. Therefore, it stressed that while government debt is currently about 19 per cent of national Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the cost of servicing the debt had been projected to be 24 per cent of the 2019 budget and 30.7 per cent of the planned revenue. “With the International Monetary Fund and the lower legislative house expressing concerns about the level of debt and the challenge of significantly increasing its revenue streams, it becomes imperative for some moderation to be introduced to the rate of debt accumulation. “We are concerned that any planned deficit financing in 2019 will only balloon the debt profile, contributing to a further crowding out of the private sector, with attendant impact on economic growth. “As a predominantly import dependent economy, any decline in the relative value of our currency will have a direct impact on the price level of goods and services. It therefore became imperative for the Monetary Policy Committee, and the central bank, to take necessary steps to maintain the value of the currency by sustaining a tight monetary policy environment,” it added.