Lagos – In the late eighties and nineties, Nigeria track and field athletes blossomed, reaching its peak at the Atlanta Olympics in 1996. Though the country failed to win a medal at the Seoul Olympics, but at Barcelona Olympics the country track and field athletes were a force to be reckoned with. At Barcelona Olympics, two Nigerians-Olapade Adeniken (10.12 secs) and Davidson Ezinwa (10.22secs) were in the final of the 100m event though  placing sixth and eight respectively.  Chidi Imoh, the third Nigerian registered for the 100m event at the games crashed out in the first semis, placing fifth. Also at the Barcelona Games, Mary Onyali qualified for the final of the women’s dash, however, she placed seventh in the final. But the Nigeria 4×100 men and women won silver and bronze medals respectively with Nigeria missing men gold through excellent baton exchange by the Americans. The country’s men 4x400m reached the final but failed to win medal having placed fifth. The women 4×100 team was the most iconic not just because it was the first medal that any Nigerian woman won at the Olympics, but because of the manner in which the quartet of Beatrice Utondu, Faith Idehen, Mary Onyali and Christy Opara-Thompson celebrated their Bronze medal becoming one of the most enduring Olympic moments and encapsulates what the Games is all about. It was at the Atlanta Olympics, four years later, that the country won her first Olympic gold through Chioma Ajunwa, who leaped 7.12m to win the gold in the long jump. Falilat Ogunkoya, who had won bronze in the 400m, anchored the women 4×400 to another bronze, while Mary Onyali, who placed seventh in the 100m final won bronze in the 200m event. Blessing Okagbare, incidentally, came in to fill the vacuum created by the Onyali, Thompson, Ajunwa and co; but save for the Delta State Government, Okagbare would have been a shadow of himself even as she now seemed to have faded out. But the successes achieved in these years were not due to any deliberate programmme by the government of the day, but through Nigerians taking advantage of the scholarship system at the instance of the American universities. This education programme afforded Nigerians to combine sports and education under a conducive environment. “Nigeria cannot take credit for the successes achieved on track and field because these athletes were trained in America. These Nigerians secured American scholarships and were trained there,” said a former Athletics of Nigeria president, Abdulkarim Amu of blessed memory in an interview. The introduction of prize money into track and field changed all as Nigerian athletes who generally face hard times since they are not catered for by the government resorted to self help, abandoning American scholarship for the cash by running in circuits in Europe. At the Rio Olympics in Brazil, Nigeria’s performance in track and field was an apology; it accusations counter accusations –Nigeria returned home without a medal. CNN’s interview with the Minister for Youth and Sport, Solomon Dalong after the Rio Olympics – “Where Did It Go Wrong with Nigeria,” – on the players’ welfare was revealing. It was that bad that some members of the national team resorted to crowd funding to pay for their flights to Rio, the result of an email from the Secretary General of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria which asked athletes to pay their own way and be reimbursed at a later date. Although, Dalung denied the original email, which he said was sent without his approval, but that through an internal investigation he discovered the practice of foreign-based athletes paying for their tickets and being reimbursed wasn’t out of the ordinary. Dalong said: “I established [that] was an existing practice here. The one which I have queried is for the issuance of the email without authority that was wrong. As for the content that is something they have been doing over the years. I even interviewed foreign based athletes and they confirmed it has been the practice.” He confirmed that the Nigerian government had allocated $3.49 million for the Games and that the team would depart for Rio on Monday, just four days before the opening ceremony. In another competition, a video of the youth team competing at the IAAF World U20 Championships in Poland surfaced. In an interview with Athletics Africa, Godwin Ashien, a member of the U20s men’s relay team lashed out at the lack of support from the administration. “Nobody cares about us,” he said. Right from Nigeria… down here… even coming from Nigeria to Dubai, we didn’t eat for three days, we didn’t eat.” These incidents have left many wondering where it all went wrong for Nigerian athletics, but former Olympic athletes Chioma Ajunwa and Mary Onyali-Omagbemi say this decline has been a long time coming. Ajunwa, on her part said that the “nonchalant attitude” of officials towards athletes was contributing to the nation’s poor performance in competitions. Nigeria did not win a single medal at the London Olympics. “Other nations have taken in their athletes for the past three years in order to make sure they can do a perfect job,” said Ajunwa. “But our own [athletes], they’re on their own, they train on their own, they pay their bills. It is inhuman, Nigerians should learn that.” Ajunwa reflected on some of her own challenges as part of Team Nigeria, and the attitude of the administration that she says still lingers. “While I was competing, each time I have injury or anything I’m on my own,” she said. “My country never took care of that, and that is why some of our athletes defected into another country. Nigeria will only want [you] when you’re winning, they will like you when you’re winning. The moment you’re not winning they’ll abandon you.” Dalong, who was appointed in late 2015, said he could not comment on the behavior of past administrations but that he was committed to making the welfare of athletes a top priority. “What we have done now is to ensure that the welfare of the athletes is paramount,” he said. “I am personally supervising the payment of their bonuses and their allowances. It is our responsibility to cater for each athlete’s welfare throughout the period of competition and returning them to wherever they are.” Onyali-Omagbemi, in the same vein was right on point on investing on Nigerian athletics on a whole saying it needed to be revamped. “Sports development is the key of any athletics federation anywhere in the world. If you don’t have that youth/junior category that eventually metamorphose into the elite … once that circle is broken, you create a void that could last years. That’s exactly what happened to Nigerian athletics.” Onyali, who worked as a special assistant to the past two former Director Generals of the then National Sports Commission, acknowledged, “things weren’t always rosy” during her time as an athlete, but despite the difficulties there was some support for athletes. “The government was doing its part and the private sector was doing their part too,” she said. “Somewhere along the line the private sector started pulling out gradually and completely pulled out. Right now we barely have a handful of the private sector supporting sport in Nigeria. That is what is hurting, that is what is really hurting us now.” Yes, Dalong acknowledges the existing problems, but said that under his watch Nigerian sports would undergo total reform after the Games, one that is more private sectors driven. “There’s a committee that has been constituted for the past three months that will submit their report when we return from Rio, he said. “An entire overhaul of the sports architecture is what we have embarked on. This will go a long way in encouraging investment and opening the potential in sports development.” Despite these challenges Onyali and Ajunwa are confident, that with the right structure, Nigeria has what it takes to become a powerhouse in athletics — if the new administration makes the right preparations after Rio. “We’re 170 million Nigerians and 70% of us are youth,” said Onyali. “If we have stadiums, even if it’s a six-lane track in every LGA [local government area] in Nigeria, there is no way we’re not going to surpass the Jamaicans and the Americans put together in talent,” she said. “Nigerians are very resilient. Four years [until the 2020 Olympics] may be short to develop an elite athlete, but I believe we can.” Professor E.O. Ojeme, a renowned sports educationist has corroborated Onyali-Omagbemi that these myriads of problems can be solved by the improvement of physical education in secondary schools, the establishment of departments of physical education at all universities and better facilities and more frequent competitions for university athletes. But the question is Nigeria prepared to accept and implement these programmes to get Nigeria athletics back on track? 