The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says 1,394,393 voters are expected to take part in the Feb.16 and March 2 general election in Gombe state. Malama Maryam Gana, INEC Acting Head of Department, Voter Education and Publicity, in the state made this known on Friday in Gombe at a Town Hall Meeting. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting was held between INEC, Women Groups and Gender Focused Civil Society Organisations in the state. Gana said the increase in eligible voters following the Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) had resulted in increase in number of voting points from 2,471 to 2,988 to ease congestion. “As at Feb. 6, 280, 508 Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) have been printed and distributed in the state. “Out of the number, 197, 705 have so far been collected by 124, 399 male and 73, 306 female, leaving a balance of 82, 803,” she said. Gana decried poor participation of women in politics, noting that they have key role to play in electoral process in the country in view of their population. According to her, out of the 32 governorship candidates in the state, only one is female. “For senatorial candidates, there are 45 males and six females, while in the House of Representatives, there are 68 males and eight females. “The State House of Assembly has 253 males and 18 females, so, the women need to do more,” she said. Hajiya Zuriyatu Abubakar, the Chief Executive Officer, Wildan Care Foundation, said there was need for women to come out and vote in the forthcoming election. Abubakar added that women in Nigeria have the right to determine who should lead the country. “We have the power to determine who leads us in Nigeria and Gombe state. Many do not know that is why we have remained in our shells. “We must enlighten them on the rationale to participate, as well as suggest strategies to enhance women participation. “This is why the foundation is partnering with INEC to drive the enhancement of women participation in political decision making,” she said. Mr Ibrahim Yusuf, Chairman, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) in the state advised women to educate their children and youths to jettison acts violence in during the election. Mrs Bashemath Umar, Vice-President 1, National Council of Women Societies (NCWS), Gombe State chapter said women had been educating their children and would continue to do. Umar expressed confidence that the election would be violence-free in the state. She lauded women who had secured nomination to participate in the election, adding that the gesture would encourage more women to participate in future elections.