“To see a world in grain of sand, And heaven in a wild flower; Hold infinity in the palm of your hand, And eternity in an hour” – BLAKE The sad news of the death of former NFA Secretary-General, Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi came to me like a wild fire that burnt without ceasing. I wept profusely inside of me because he was one classic administrator who was open to everybody who cares to see him concerning Nigerian football. He (Ogunjobi) had an open door policy which made it difficult for anybody to say the Chief Taiwo declined to see him! He was that simple! Osun State born seasoned football administrator also passes for a seasoned footballer in his hey days, playing for the former IICC shooting stars of Ibadan, now 3SC sports club of Ibadan. He captained that one time famous team of Oyo State when the Nigerian league was the best, with commitment, professionalism, quality players and quality management. The likes of late Chief Ogunjobi and his team mates, at the time, were a fiery side. Ogunjobi also plied his trade with the defunct Adewale Bridge boys (Julius Berger) of Lagos; he also had a stint with the then Green Eagles of Nigeria, where all the best of all the teams in Nigeria were assembled irrespective of ethnicity, religion or political affiliation. All the best legs across the country were put together for compact Eagles. The late Osun state chief was also the administrator of 3SC and Osun State FA chairman. He made invaluable touches to the governance of football at the Glasshouse in Abuja and most of his inputs will remain indelible on the sands of time. His death will be strongly remembered for years to come, given his commitment to the administration of Nigeria’s football. His professional competence is second to none. This is a huge loss to the Nigerian football community, Africa and beyond. I remember meeting him twice as Secretary- General of the Nigerian football governing body; in the first meeting, we discussed briefly about the Eagles, the National team which I had so much passion for.  The second meeting was when we talked about the then Nigerian football association (NFA). His simplicity and humility cannot be overemphasised. He lived a patriotic life, with strong passion for Nigeria and her football development. He has left a vacuum in Nigerian football, a vacuum I fervently pray will not affect most Nigerian football administrators who look up to him as role model and mentor across the country’s Football Associations. Indeed, most football administrators and coaches today hold him in high esteem as he was an administrative Colossus. I join hands with the present administrators of the NFF in commiserating with the family of the late chief and pray that God will grant them the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss. I am also using this medium to appeal to the current president of the NFF to use his good office in making sure that the Glasshouse is well represented in his burial in whatever capacity through the ministry of sports ditto the government of Nigeria, as Ogunjobi is one that needs to be celebrated even in death. Fare thee well, Skippo! Good Morning Nigerians.