Yenagoa – Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State on Monday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to summon an emergency meeting of the National Council of State to review the 2019 electoral process. Dickson, who made the call during a press briefing in Yenagoa, said the emergency meeting became imperative following the postponement of Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He suggested that the meeting be used to explore ways of supporting the electoral body to conduct acceptable national elections. According to the governor, relevant stakeholders, including service chiefs, top officials of INEC, led by the national chairman, Prof. Yakubu Mahmood, should be present at the meeting to answer pertinent questions and explain issues bordering on the rescheduled polls for February 23 and March 9. Dickson said that only an emergency meeting of the National Council of State could avert what he described as “an avoidable prolonged political crisis”, the time of which no one would be able to fathom. The governor also faulted INEC for unilaterally taking the decision to shift the elections six hours to the opening of voting process on Saturday. Dickson said: “And it is in respect of this that I want to use this opportunity to call on President Muhammadu Buhari, in his capacity as President of the Federal Republic, leader of the country, not as leader of the APC, to convoke a meeting of the National Council of State. “An emergency meeting is needed urgently where we have the service chiefs, to support the conduct of peaceful, credible, free and fair elections; where we have INEC officials to brief the Council about preparations on their side; where we have the political party national chairmen with their presidential candidates, and all of them sitting in one room to examine this developing scenario which may plunge our country into an avoidable prolonged political crisis, the time of which no one can fathom. “That meeting, an emergency meeting, should be called. I do believe that if we all sit down, and I don’t know the circumstances in greater detail, and ask INEC pertinent questions, and all the issues we all have to raise, even the security issues in that one meeting, I believe it is at the end of that meeting that we should have agreed on a new date, that INEC should have had a new date. “I disagree with the INEC for unilateral announcement (of election shift) as they have done of next Saturday as a date for holding the rescheduling polls. “I do not believe, and I don’t have the facts, I don’t claim to have all the facts, that all the challenges INEC had can be resolved and the country can be assured of a hitch-free elections just in the next five or six days. It’s already almost two days after the announcement.” On Buhari’s directive at the APC Caucus meeting on Monday that snatchers of ballot boxes be killed by security personnel at the polls, Dickson said he hoped the presidential order would also extend to Heineken Lokpobiri, Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, and former governor, Timipre Sylva, leaders of APC in Bayelsa. He alleged that Sylva and Lokpobiri were known violent persons who deployed political thugs to create panic and rig elections in the state.