February 6th 2019 was an uncommon feat politically, it was a day the “E.K Clark solidarity for Okowa 2019” rolled the drums not only to celebrate the unified uncommon transformation of the three senatorial zones that make up the state but also a day the massive disciples of the irrepressible Chief Dr Edwin.K Clark gave effect to his instruction to re-elect Gov. Okowa for Equity, Justice and Unity of the state. The Board of Trustees. Leaders of the group led by Sir Simeon Efenudu, High Chief Mike Usige, Barr. Edward Ojoegwu, Chief Erute among others started working zealously in accordance to Pa Clark instructions, mobilizing Deltans for the P.D.P Governorship kick off campaign, in Oghara township stadium and from there the group effortlessly mobilized Deltans from the three senatorial zones to all P.D.P Governorship campaigns that ended in Owa-Oyibu recently. The purpose for this is not far-fetched because we need a state in unity despite our diversity. We need a state where each section is not marginalized and all have equal claim to the state, we need a state of brotherhood, where no matter your tribe or where you come from we see ourselves as brothers under one united state called Delta. Our diversity and the many languages we speak including economic opportunities should be tapped for growth and development of the state and that is why we believe in Okowa, again E. K. Clark is a national colossus, an enigma who has traversed and fought several political battles and with this sense of knowledge, experience and dedication, he is propelled not by sectional or personal goals but what is good for all Deltans. We cannot build a state on primordial sentiments of tribalism and sectional supremacies, we cannot build a state where despite good performance, castigation rather than commendation prevails. We cannot build a state of discriminatory acrimony in running away or diverging attention from issues that worries our people, we cannot continue to see some section of the state as proper Delta while others are inferior, imposed and neither should any section feel inferior or superior above others to pursue secret agenda that suggest they are not part of the state. The inability to appreciate our diversity in culture, social, history and tradition and use it to increase tolerance, understanding and brotherhood is bane of our problems, no section of the state is poor as each section is equally blessed, all that we need is synergy to have a united prosperous state. This is what Pa Clark is saying and it’s a fact that he cannot be a national icon by turning a blind eye on his home state, Pa Clark may not belong to any political party but as an elder statesman and father who has been involved politically in affairs of Nigeria since 1954 till date, he understands what destroys a people easily is greed and lack of nationalism, which sectionalism and tribal ism bring, he was involved in the Nigerian Civil War and played a leading role in reconciliation and rehabilitation, he sent his daughter not only to Queens school Onitsha but had a house in the south named after him for his commitment to National Unity and healing. In Delta State, we need Unity and healing and this is what the re-election of Gov. Okowa brings. From 1999 till date, the two senatorial zones of Delta central and Delta South have had the Governorship for eight years of two terms each, presently Delta North had done a term under Okowa, is it not fair that with his good performance Okowa should be allowed a second term to sustain equity and Justice so that Delta North should feel a sense of belonging in a new Delta State devoid of bigotry and sectionalism? The election of Gov. Okowa is about performance and unity of the state above other consideration, its about brotherhood and the need for each senatorial zone to rise above political bigots, tribal and sectional irredentists who blind themselves to performance to embrace primordial considerations, we must have a people before a state and we must build a state based on equity, justice and non racial discrimination to attain greatness that translates to peace, security and prosperity. We must stand collectively as a state despite our social, cultural and political differences because this is what build great nations, leadership should not be restricted to “my own, my tribe, or region” because this is catastrophic, if we in Delta hate what the major tribes who use our oil to develop their regions at our detriment, dislike their monopoly of oil industries despite that the crude oil comes from our backyards and they use their numerical strength to pauperize and marginalizes us then we must resist such tendencies back home. We crusade for justice to have a better society yet if we cannot entrench such conditions back home then we are not different from the proverbial ostrich and the same injustices which we condemn. This is what re-election of Okowa provokes in us and that was why the “E.K Clark Solidarity for Okowa 2019” after series of hectic campaigns. across the state held a one day lecture entitled: “free, fair and credible Elections: Panacea for a stable Delta State.” The guest speaker was l Prof. G. G. Darah who did justice to the topic. The chairman of the day was Prof. Sam. Oyovbaire, and the father of the day was Chief (Dr.) E.K. Clark, who was represented by Chief (Dr.) Engr. Pius Sinebe former P.D.P. State chairman, dignitaries that came includes: Alaowei Broderick Bozimo former minister police Affairs, His Royal Majesty the Owhorode of Olomu Kingdom, Prof. Saliba Mukoro, Eze Charles Chukwu and a representative of the Governor Hon. Comm. Kingsley Emuh, commissioner for economic planning. The Governor was having another function with the Anglican Church sent a representative. The Governor’s annex unity hall where the lecture took place was filled to the brim, as we mobilized all unit, ward and local government co-coordinators including our followers to the venue, we had more than two thousand delegates in the hall that it was overcrowded and overflowed outside the hall. In the lecture, the necessity for free, fair and credible elections to any society was emphasized, apart from the key note speaker, Prof. Oyorbaire spoke on the need to re-elect Okowa while Hon. Kingsley Emuh tasked all present to vote and also mobilize to support the Governor, thanking them all for their support. There were other good will messages and a brief interactive session between the membership floor and the high table. There is no doubt the crowd were complimented by the Governor’s representative and they responded in solidarity and support. There is no doubt Okowa needs support from all sections of the state and this lecture demonstrated it, to build a state guided by facts and not rumours, a state guided by pedigree and performance and not primordial sentiments, a state of brotherhood and not divisions sustained by tribal bigots, a state of brotherhood where each section contributes to its growth and development in comparative advantage of each sections, a state where success, performance are not viewed through the primes of the tribe or section one comes from. We must begin this narrative here in building a better state for our self and our children’s children, we must begin in truth and appreciation of the good work of Okowa across the state and acknowledge this in our homes, offices, streets, family, public places including motor parks, among others and we must not relent. Okowa re-election is about the necessity of building a virile Delta State where thought tribe and tongue may differ in brotherhood we stand, this is what E.K Clark stands for: a state, society where corruption is tackled, where every citizen has inalienable right to aspire to any office without discrimination. Today the rotational policy of the Governorship office among the tree sensational zones sustains equity, Justice, development and social stability that encourages participation. We must sustain this in building brotherhood, unity, peace and stability of the state.