Standing on the floor of the Senate and contributing effectively to debates certainly pushes up the popularity of Senators, and Senator Victor Umeh representing Anambra Central Senatorial district has done that effectively. In fact, within the 11 months he has spent in the Senate, he has sponsored couple of motions, winning the award as the sponsor of the best motion of year 2018. Before then, he had moved other motions and Bills. For instance, Senator Umeh contributed to debates on national issues bothering on insecurity and killing of people across Nigeria. He sponsored two other motions including: the inclusion of Eastern Railway line in the Nigeria Railway development project which was neglected when others were being attended to, particularly the exclusion of Eastern Rail-line from the $6.8 billion loan obtained by the Federal Government to standardise the gauges and the railway line across the country. He also sponsored a motion on the illegal confinement of underage persons in the same prison with adult prisoners. This won the best motion of the year in 2018. Besides, he told Daily Independent in an interview that he sponsored a Bill for the establishment of Theatre Arts Practitioners Council of Nigeria for its registration, and perhaps more importantly, co-sponsored a bill with Senator Stella Odua for the establishment of a Federal University of Education in Aguleri, Anambra state. Umeh’s most remarkable appearance in the Senate in 2018 was his objection to the lopsided constitution of the board of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) which had no representation of South East and South-South Geo-political zone. His objection threw the Red Chamber in turmoil, and in the end the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Saraki had to stand down the list which was sent to the Senate for consideration by President Muhammadu Buhai. But even as he saw these as remarkable achievements, Umeh felt that one of the best ways to represent a people is to show empathy and sympathy, especially to the poor and down trodden. It was a path he paved for himself even before he won the election to represent his people in the Senate. Before then, he had floated a University scholarship scheme for hundreds of students from indigent homes. When he went to the Senate, therefore, his position offered him more opportunity and resources to do even more. To date according to him, he has more than 300 students on his scholarship. These include 70 of them drawn from the seven local councils that make up Anambra Central Senatorial district. Each of the students receives N100,000.00 per annum for payment of school fees and other sundry expenses. Also in contributing to the well-being of his constituents, he organized a skill acquisition training programme for 151youths from in which he spent N4 million. On completion of their training, each received a starter pack and was qualified for a Central Bank loan of up to N10 million. Shortly after this, he distributed 31 tricycles (Keke Napep) to his constituents to supplement their sources of income. Apart from these, Umeh used the opportunity of his re-election campaign to give financial support to poor women in his constituency who are into small businesses. In each community he campaigned, Umeh called out a number of women who were already selected by their community leaders for empowerment. Through this, he has so far empowered 400 women and hoped to increase the number by 50 before the end of his re-election campaign. To each of the women he gave N50,000.00 to support their capital. Umeh described these “as small credit to support their business”.