Hours to the much awaited general elections, which kick off tomorrow with the presidential election, the fate of the country lies squarely with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the entire citizenry. The nation surely has had a very torpid political experience over time; but 20 years into the Fourth Republic, it is indeed time for Nigerians to demonstrate that politically, they have come of age. The simplest way to do this is for all registered voters to troop peacefully and orderly to the various polling stations across the country to perform an important civic duty of choosing Nigeria’s president,and members of the National Assembly for the next four years. No one should expect a hitch-free exercise, but the conduct of the election should nevertheless conform to high international standard, as it is with other respectable countries. Obviously, the success or otherwise of tomorrow’s presidential election will rub off the governorship and Houses of Assembly elections scheduled for two weeks’ time. What is imperative is for all Nigerians, including INEC, security agencies, election officials, voters, election monitors and every other person to recognise their key role in making the conduct of the elections a matter of pride for all. All over the world, success of elections is a collective responsibility, not a duty for any single institution. On its part, INEC has, on several occasions, stated its readiness and commitment to organise and conduct free and fair general elections. The Commission has no reason to fail, given its experience over 20 years, notwithstanding its change of personnel at the top level. Besides, it has conducted staggered elections in three states – Anambra, Ekiti and Osun, in the last two years, and subsequently garnered useful experience for the general elections. The Commission must, therefore, work hard to cultivate the trust and cooperation of Nigerians, especially, members of the political parties,their candidates and supporters, by clearly demonstrating its independence and impartial disposition at every point, and providing a level playing field for all the candidates. Its officials must be thoroughly schooled to ensure that on no occasion in the course of executing their duties should their neutrality be in doubt. Previous elections have been dogged by several debilitating lapses that had sought to dampen the morale of voters. Issues like late arrival of personnel and materials,which have led to late commencement of voting and the discouragement of voters,several of whom had left the polling points without voting, and the malfunctioning of card readers, are things Nigerians expect that INEC must not allow to reoccur in this election. On no account must anyone be disenfranchised due to the Commission’s inability to improve on its operations. And on their part, Nigerians must balance their huge expectation on the elections with credible conduct, delivered in an honest and transparent manner that could ensure a befitting poll, and a rancour-free result that would be acceptable to all well-meaning Nigerians and the world at large. We urge Nigerians to see the pivotal role elections play in deciding the progress and stability of the country. As a people yearning for a prosperous country, which can only be possible by the emergence of responsible and competent leaders, Nigerians must hasten to discard the old, retrogressive preference of allowing expediencies to drive their choice of candidates. There have been reports of politicians seeking to influence voters with monetary and other inducements. Nigerians must demonstrate their revulsion for this unwholesome practice as that is akin to selling their birthrights. They must see those itching to buy their votes as unrepentant enemies of the country’s development and reject them and their gifts with the fiercest contempt. Also, Nigerians must not allow themselves to be lured into any actions capable of breaching public peace. They should refuse to be used as thugs or ballot box snatchers no matter the rewards, as these activities are capable of costing them their lives or bringing them in collision with the law.The security agencies must ensure that they do not in anyway become part of the problem by allowing themselves to be used in any way to subvert the electoral process. They must be thoroughly professional in the discharge of their duties. The various parties have conducted very robust campaigns across the country marketing their programmes and candidates. They should now allow the citizenry the right to freely make their choice of candidates as they go to vote tomorrow and in the rest of the elections. Every form of intimidation of voters and electoral officers must be eschewed, and those involved must be arrested by security agents and made to legally face the consequences of such infractions. Every election produces both winners and losers. Those who will lose in this election must place the progress of the country and security of the citizenry above their ambitions and accept their defeat with grace and equanimity. They should seek redress at the courts which have in recent years demonstrated the ability to right wrongs committed in the electoral process. It is hoped that with these elections, Nigeria will rewrite the unflattering sides of her history by showing the world that, indeed, her democracy has acquired some appreciable maturity.