Hakeem Yusuf is the President, Pathfinders’ Group, USA, United States-based pro-Babajide Sanwo-Olu campaign group. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on what the organisation has been doing to ensure the election of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in Lagos State. Excerpt: What is the Pathfinders’ Group about? What are its aims and objectives? Pathfinders Group, USA, is a collection of professionals and business executives interested in pursuing positive substantive socio-political change in Nigeria. We learnt that you have been canvassing for support for the Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos. What has your group been doing in this regard? The moment Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu declared his candidacy for governorship of Lagos State, we chose to support him because we know his pedigree. We believe he is capable of running the affairs of the state and will take it to the next level. So, we chose to put our resources together to mobilise voters all over the state to vote for him in the next election. Pathfinders Group USA on December 19, 2018 conducted the first Voters Mobilisation Rally for Babajide Sanwo-Olu  in Lagos State. The rally took place in the Ifako/Ijaye Local Government Area, starting at the Excellence Hotel in Ogba and ended at the Ojokoro APC secretariat. Notable stops along the way included Baba Hamzat House, Ifako/Ijaye APC secretariat, Fagba Junction, Abule Egba  and Ahmadiyya. We also featured in other successful campaign rallies held in Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government Area and Ibeju Lekki area, both organised by Energy Star Group. We have been supporting the popular Medical Outreach Programme, called Sanwo-Olu Cares Medical Outreach all over the state. On February 23, 2019, Pathfinders Group USA will be organising a Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat Mega Rally in Ijede area in Ikorodu. How would your group exert enough influence on the voters from its U.S base? Prior to organising these rallies, we have been liaising with the members and executives of CDAs and CDC , APC and Local Government/LCDA chairmen. Our rallies have been well attended by thousands of citizens, APC executives and APC candidates in the areas of each event. We have our crew participating in house to house campaign as a follow-up to the rallies. The feedback received from the outings has been positive, registered voters have collected their PVCs and are determined to cast their votes on election day for President Buhari on February 16, 2019 and for Babajide Sanwo-Olu on March 2, 2019. Why do you think that Lagos does not need a change of guard to another party other than the All Progressives Congress (APC) after the party has been on saddle for about 20 years? For the past 20 year, the voters of Lagos State have spoken through their cast ballot and have stated loudly that they prefer APC candidates and we are okay with it. What is your view on the call for Nigerians in Diaspora to be taking part in elections in the country? Do you think it is feasible now? Of course, Nigerians in Diaspora are actively involved in the electoral process. The activities of the Pathfinders Group, USA, show how we have been involved in the process. We use our influence to canvass and mobilise the citizens to register to vote, obtain their PVCs and vote on election days. Nigerians in Diaspora are active in social media debates and many do come to Nigeria to run for offices with the aim of bringing their overseas experience to the benefit of the nation. We hope that in the nearest future, Nigerians will be able to cast their ballot in the comfort of their homes, using their cell phones. How could electoral malpractices, including vote buying by politicians and their parties, be checked? Voters always vote for the party and candidate of their choice. Who they choose and who to vote for vary from person to person. Electoral malpractices can be curtailed with the use of advanced electronic devices to capture cast votes. If a fingerprint has been found on one set of ballot papers, subsequent ballots with the same finger print can be discarded. Going by the ways elections are conducted in U.S, what would you say are missing in poll handling here in Nigeria? In the USA, the concept of early voting and absentee ballot exist. These allow voters to perform their civic duty at a convenient time other than the final voting day. The use of electronic ballot devices along with audit trail helps protect the integrity of the process. Collation of total votes is done electronically and is much faster than counting votes manually. Applying any of these practices in the Nigerian electoral process, will help reduce long lines on election day and improve the overall election process.