Lagos – Considering how few homegrown talents are currently thriving in the upper echelons of the English Premier League (EPL), it remains curious that many football fans remain unwilling to savour the rise of Alex Iwobi. Iwobi joined Arsenal when he was still at primary school, rising through the ranks to become a mainstay of the first team and a regular for the Super Eagles of Nigeria. There has been no loan move down the divisions and no foray into the Bundesliga as, instead, Iwobi has taken a direct route that vanishingly few players have been able to follow. He has admitted he is thrilled to get his fourth goal of the season for The Gunners, as he struck in the 2-1 win away to Huddersfield Town on Saturday, February 8. Iwobi’s return to scoring form came just after reports emerged that he remains Nigeria’s Most Valuable Player (MVP) in Europe’s top five leagues, with an increase of €8.5m the previous month to €63.7m. Before now, Iwobi has been named the third best U-25 midfielder in Europe’s top five leagues in one key stat. Though, the Gunners’ number 17 had been criticized in recent games, especially against Manchester City, a new performance indicator published by Ashwin Raman of Football Whispers suggested the Super Eagles star had lived up to expectations this season. Raman analysed the matches in the EPL, La Liga, Bundesliga, Ligue 1 and Serie A; using advanced statistics and had ranked the top 20 midfielders and attacking midfielders with 850+ minutes for open play xG+xA/90. It is a methodology of giving marks to each shot or pass and adding them to get a number, showing how much a player could/should have been decisive, on average per match. The top midfielder is Diogo Jota of Wolverhampton Wanderers (0.47) followed by RB Leipzig’s Marcel Sabitzer (0.43), then Iwobi at 0.43. Tottenham Hotspur’s Dele Alli (0.42) and Man City’s Bernardo Silva (0.42) completed the top five. However, Iwobi’s current value is now above Leicester City midfielder, Wilfred Onyinyen Ndidi, who is second with €55m. The Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) according to current reports, also ranked him as the sixth best player in Africa on an initially released 10-man list that has no other Nigerian on it. So, by that position on the continent, he’s unarguably the best in Nigeria. In any case, we may not be seeing this figure come to light anytime soon, as Iwobi is not expected to leave Arsenal until 2022. But it feels really good to see the 22-year-old come this far in a club he has greatly admired since childhood. As if to justify the figures that put him top of Nigeria’s highest earning soccer stars, Iwobi got the evening’s opening salvo, before Alexandre Lacazette sealed the 2-1 away win at John Smith’s Stadium. The 22-year-old midfielder has assumed a starting role at the Emirates Stadium in place of German playmaker, Mesut Ozil. Asides from the three goals he has scored in the EPL this season, Iwobi has contributed five assists this season in a 23 top flight games played. He was among the 32 nominees for Africa’s Best Player of the Year 2018 Award alongside teammate, Gabon’s Pierre Emerick Aubameyang. He went as far as being in the top 10 of the category. The award was won by Egypt and Liverpool’s star, Mohammed Salah early this year. Unai Emery who replaced Arsene Wenger at the start of the season still wants more from the Nigerian midfielder. Speaking in his post-match conference Emery said that Iwobi was in peak condition but wants him to be calmer citing examples of times he could have released the pass earlier. He said, “He’s young, makes a big commitment and he has a good physical condition. “He needs to improve something tactically, maybe, but above all he’s calm with the ball in the attacking third [in order] to find better assists, finding the possibility to score with composure, or find the best option, whether that is shooting or dribbling. “He scored [on Saturday], got another very good chance and the possibility to assist [Alexandre] Lacazette, but I think his match – first starting with his attitude – was very big, and his performance was very good.” Iwobi has made efforts on his part to improve his game when he said that he has employed an analyst to improve his statistics, decision making and output on the pitch. This is the first time in his career he has been given the opportunity to do so to improve his decision-making in the final third, and the goal against Huddersfield will help in that regard. There is no doubt that a return of four goals and four assists from 32 games this campaign falls short of top-level attacking numbers, but it is already an improvement on last season, when he scored three. What Emery wants from him now is to depart from his inconsistency. With his manically short strides and bouncing hair, Iwobi can give the impression of being permanently in a hurry — one social media user joked recently that he dribbles like he is five minutes late for a team meeting — but it is a style that can prove hard for defenders to manage. And, as he pointed out last week, he has been involved in the build-up — providing the “pre-assist,” if you will — for plenty of Arsenal’s goals this season. With the Super Eagles of Nigeria already qualified for this year’s African Cup of Nations (AFCON) billed for Egypt, the question  is whether the ‘young gun’ can transform his current status with the Super Eagles at AFCON 2019? Nigeria with a match at hand against Seychelles next month, has qualified for the AFCON 2019 and Iwobi is one of the players’ coach Gernort Rohr is banking on for a successful outing at the Nations Cup. Ex-international, Taiwo Oloyede believes he can with supports from teammates in the Super Eagles. “With supports from members of the team, he can live up to expectations in Egypt. If the players decide to play as a team, I see Iwobi doing very well in Egypt. “He has all it takes to perform well but we all must give him the support and encouragements that he can do it”, Oloyede said. Immediate past chairman of Nigeria Referees Association (NRA) Lagos State Council, Moses Adebanjo shared the views of Oloyede. “He is young, very mobile and in good books of other members of the team in the Super Eagles. Football is all about team play. “With supports from his colleagues, I see him contributing very well to the success of the team in Egypt. “Mind you, he gave the goal that gave us the ticket to the 2019 AFCON and I know he will want to do more during the competition proper in Egypt. The coaches must drum it to the ears of the players that they must play as a team and with this at the back of their minds, Iwobi will shine in Egypt”, said Adebanjo. Gbenga Ogunbote, Rangers International of Enugu coach, however, warned that he should not be carried away with the current success. “That has been the major problems of young players like Iwobi. He should not let it gets into his head, rather he should remain focused on his game and try to improve on his performance. “He is yet to be there but can be there with hard work, determination, focus and calmness. “I read his coach (Emery) views on him after the victory over Huddersfield and he must take the coach words very seriously. I am happy for him because he is moving very fast but he should tread cautiously”, said Ogunbote. Henry Okafor, an Arsenal fan, said: “Iwobi plays very well but needs to improve. With AFCON 2019 fast approaching, he needs to justify that he is the player needed in the team for the Nations Cup. “He can help Nigeria win the Nations Cup if he lives up to expectations and put smiles of the faces of football loving Nigerians”, said Okafor. With the situation as it is, one thing that is paramount in the football circle is that the young Nigerian can step up his game in order to continue to excel in the round leather game for both his club and country Nigeria.