LAGOS – It’s hard to raise a child when you are still a child yourself, but many girls under 18 have done it, and still do it in Nigeria; all for a different reason. Some because they got involved with sex with their peers rather early, some because of archaic cultures and traditions and other vices such as defilement by peers, male adults and even parents, caregivers or fathers. Itunu Eniolamiyan (not real last name) was only 15 and fresh out of secondary school when her parents discovered her to be pregnant. “It seemed impossible,” her mother told Saturday INDEPENDENT. “My daughter only spent time in church, my shop in front of the house and at home, so I told the doctor that it was impossible.” These were the words from the mouth of a mother who had felt betrayed by her daughter whom she said she raised ‘properly’. Speaking further with Saturday INDEPENDENT, Mrs. Eniolamiyan said, “I insisted that it wasn’t possible, went to different chemist shops and pharmacies and bought 12 home pregnancy test kits. They were just N50 at the time and I had three daughters. Itunu is the oldest; I thought maybe it was a hormonal imbalance. I think I was a bit crazy or maybe I was in denial. I got home and made the three of them pee into different bowls. My youngest daughter, Iyanu, who was just 10 at the time, and Itunu were already crying, but I made them do it. I used all 12 strips for the three of them and only Itunu’s own turned positive. Imagine, all four test strips that I used for Itunu came out positive, so there was no mistake. I nearly went mad.” Mrs. Eniolamiyan further shared, “I didn’t know what to do or who to call. My husband works for an oil company, so he was away for two weeks. That is not the kind of news to share over the phone. I felt that my daughter hated me. I cried for two weeks straight. It was when my husband got back that we found out that she got pregnant in the church. That made me cry again. Apparently, whenever she went to church, she spent all her time in the pastor’s house and the pastor’s 16-year-old son was responsible for the pregnancy. She gave birth to the baby; I made sure, to teach her a lesson. Today, the boy is eight, and Itunu is serving in Abuja. The boy is a blessing to my family, but at that time, it was torture.” Efforts to speak to Itunu proved abortive as Saturday INDEPENDENT couldn’t reach her over the phone. But Itunu’s story, as told by her mother is one with a happy ending. Several other stories in Nigeria come with dark and twisted plots that would scare the fainthearted. 37-year-old Chike, who lived in the eastern part of Nigeria was once recorded saying that he had an ‘aunt’ who was supposed to watch him while his mother was in the market. The ‘aunt’, he said, had been married for 10 years and had no kids of her own, so she liked to look after him while his mother went about her business and her husband was at work. Chike shared that she had been watching him since he was eight. On his 12th birthday, she said she had a gift for him and took him to her room. As he explained, the gift was her body and since then, Chike said they did the ‘stuff’ together till he was 15 and was sent to live with his uncle in Lagos. He also explained that before he left, his ‘aunt’ was six months pregnant. Most touching though is the story of Adeola (not real name). After much pleading, she agreed to share her story with this reporter: “I was very brilliant at my school, Molusi College Ijebu Igbo, so I graduated early. I immediately gained admission to Olabisi Onabanjo University in 2009, just before my 16th birthday. Because I’m very fair and short, people notice me quickly and they call me their baby. When I got to school, there was no hostel, so my dad rented a room for me. There was a man, Uncle TJ in the house who had just graduated and was waiting for NYSC, so he used to come to my room to help me with things. My dad even told him to take care of me. School was on strike for a week after two weeks of lectures, and I didn’t want to go home, so I spent most of my days indoors, reading. “One day, my room was really hot, and since he had a generator that I could put on, I went to lie down in his room. That was two weeks after we did our matriculation. I remember because the NYSC posting had just come out and he went to check where he was posted to at the mini-campus. When he came back, I was still in his room sleeping. When I woke up, he told me they posted him to Delta. A few minutes later, I picked his remote control to turn on the TV and saw that it was ‘blue film’ that was in the player. I wanted to turn it off, but he said I should leave it, that I am a big girl. “I still couldn’t watch it because I had never seen something like that before, so I stood up to leave his room. He grabbed my hand and pulled me back that I should not go anywhere. Before I knew it, he was rubbing my body, and he was sweating and breathing heavily. He kept saying ‘don’t worry, don’t worry’, but I was scared. He raped me that day. I slept in his room that night and for the next two nights because he said I was his girlfriend now, and that if I misbehave he would report me to my dad. So I just kept quiet.” Adeola further shared that she didn’t realise she was pregnant until about four months later when she added a bit of weight and her tummy kept growing bigger. “It was my landlord’s wife who knew what was happening to my body that called my dad. My father disowned me, and Uncle TJ was still serving. When I called him to tell him I was pregnant, he cut off the phone. I had good friends and church members, so I lived on charity till I gave birth, then I started doing business. I stayed in school though, and I finally graduated in 2015, but Uncle TJ came back to Ago-Iwoye in 2011 after I had my son and he helped me. My parents insisted that I must marry him since I already had a child for him. Now I have another child for him. We have been married for two years.” When asked if she was happy, Adeola turned taciturn and refused to say anything. Whatever can be said, Adeola’s story is similar to that of many other ‘jambites’ and naïve ‘freshers’. At a July 2018 seminar by Equality Now, a non-governmental organisation, whose purpose is to work ‘for the protection and promotion of the human rights of women and girls around the world’, the story of a 15-year-old African girl who asked a question anonymously comes to mind. The girl had asked, “If your biological father has been telling you sweet words about love when your mother is not around and the main issue is having sex with him, what do you do and he is the one paying your school fees?” The rising spate of incest and defilement of children has raised alarm among authorities and children’s rights activists. The worrying part of it is that most children and teenagers are sexually molested at homes, schools and on their way to or from schools, and by people close to them in a breach of the trust the children have for the perpetrators. Children and teens are easy victims of defilement because they are weak in physical stature and mental capabilities and mostly dependent on others, who sometimes turn out to be pedophiles. Most child sex predators are fathers, uncles, cousins, grandfathers, and teachers. Outside the family, domestic workers, neighbours, drivers, and school workers are also chief among molesters. Many have opined that the cause for this growing trend is indecent dressing among children. Others claim that it is a lack of awareness, while a member of the Anglican Communion mentioned anonymously that it is merely another sign of end times. “How would a father find his own daughter, no matter the age, desirable? It is a sickness!” One must however not discount the point about teenagers exploring aspects of their dressing and later sexuality. In today’s society, there seems to be a growing laxity in the rules of dressing. A retired headmistress, speaking on pedophiles shared: “The idea of pedophiles in the first place is absurd. To be a pedophile means you have to be crazy. Even as adult women, we are told not to provoke men. An adult can be provocative to the point that it would incite rape, though that is no justification. The same thing speaks for the younger ones as well. We already have men looking at five-year-olds and say “she has a big ass!” They would say, “As small as she is her buttocks are already so big.” Some men can look at a child and notice that. Some of them are not pedophiles, but this is to tell you that indecent dressing has moved to the point where they notice it in children. Now when parents do not help out by helping them covering these ‘assets’ at that young age, it feels like they are just advertising them to the public.” Azeezat Adebayo, a teacher in a Muslim secondary school told Saturday INDEPENDENT, “I think if a girl is ready at the age of 16, she should be allowed to get married instead of being defiled, raped or forced to hide her sexuality. Many girls by the age of eight, nine, are technically mature because they have begun menstruating. That does not make them emotionally or physically ready for marriage though. To now insist that such a girl, who feels ready for sex by the age of 15, 16 conform to our idea of chastity and celibacy is absurd. If she is ready and finds a young man she likes and wants to marry, let her go ahead. I see girls in Oshodi every day who run after men and boys, sometimes sleeping with them for fun, pleasure or money. Some girls have higher libido than men. Why deprive them of that when nature has made them ready?” David Abdulsalam, a graduate of Psychology from the University of Ibadan, who is currently serving in Lagos said, “The human mind is complex and you cannot tell what each man is thinking. We must consider the fact that we live in an information age, people are tuned by what they see and hear, and in recent times, the media, meaning film and television companies paint sex as something extremely pleasurable, something everyone must desire. You can’t control your audience or how they interpret what you put out there, so we should be more cautious. Imagine a young boy watching a film where he sees a woman who finds sleeping with her boss pleasurable if such a boy begins to proposition his parent’s maid, who do we blame? Or a girl who watches a film about how a rich man falls in love with Mercy Johnson and eventually marries her. If such a girl begins to fantasize about her teacher, does that make her the devil? God forbid that teacher is a pedophile. So the media is tuning our youths and making immoral things look cool.” A new study, yet to be backed by adequate results, suggests that sex during adolescence can have lasting negative effects on the body and mood well into adulthood, most likely because the activity occurs when the nervous system is still developing. Speaking with Dr. Ajike Ayoola, she explained that “Teen pregnancy is an important issue for several reasons. Early age at first sexual intercourse has long been associated with an increased risk of invasive cervical carcinoma (ICC). There are also health risks for the baby. Children born to teenage mothers are more likely to suffer health, social, and emotional problems than children born to older mothers. Also, women who become pregnant during their teens are at increased risk for medical complications, such as premature labour. To lower teen pregnancy rates, older children must be educated about sex, sexuality and the consequences of pregnancy. 80 percent of teen mothers do not have the financial ability to care for their child. Teenage mothers are more likely to drop out of school and can eventually become depressed. Having children early has its benefits, but teenage pregnancy is simply too early. Girls should be allowed to mature before putting their bodies to the task of childbearing.” As much as the awareness is being made on early defilement and rape, leading to teenage pregnancies, only a fraction of the cases is still reported. Most children suffer in silence and only report to parents or teachers when pestered after noticeable changes occur in the children. No woman should be a victim of sexual abuse or rape, but defilement and rape of minors is a cancer that must never be allowed to exist; the consequences are too shameful and painful for any child to bear.