Lagos – Mohammed Adamu, the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), has said that the Nigeria Police Force have mapped out plans of action towards ensuring a violence and crisis-free general election that will be starting soon with the presidential poll. Adamu said this on Wednesday during the decoration ceremony of the newly promoted Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) and Commissioners of Police (CPs) at the Force Headquarters, Abuja. The acting IGP noted that being the lead security outfit in the election, the personnel of the Force would be expected to perform optimally and show the highest level of professionalism, charging the newly promoted officers to contribute their own in ensuring that Nigerians have free, fair and credible election. “Let me, however, remind the promoted officers that the 2019 general elections are around the corner and the Nigeria Police Force, being the lead agency in the electoral process, are expected to exhibit optimal level of professionalism and to undertake their mandate within the dictates of rule of law. “I can assure the nation and the international community that we have perfected plans and mobilized available assets towards giving to the country peaceful and credible elections,” he said. Speaking further, the Nigerian police boss said that the Force is evolving new strategies towards solving the internal security challenges confronting the nation, believing that the newly promoted officers would be vital in enthroning his leadership focus. “On assumption of duty, I pledged to address the current internal security challenges by evolving new policing strategies and identifying quality and dedicated officers to support me in the implementation of such initiatives. I hold the firm conviction that these newly promoted officers will be strategic to the advancement of this leadership thrust. “All of you, the newly promoted officers, will be deployed to play active roles in this process. The Force leadership and indeed the nation look up to you to manifest your sense of professional excellence in the election security task you might be deployed to perform. I trust that you shall not fail the Force; neither will you fail the nation in this arduous national duty.”