Abuja – A Federal High Court, Abuja, has declared George Ogara as the validly nominated gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State. Consequently, the court has invalidated the emergence of Senator Ayogu Eze as the governorship candidate of the party in the state. The order removing Ayogu Eze was given by Justice Inyang Ekwo on Tuesday. Justice Ekwo gave the order while delivering judgment on a suit filed by Ogara against Ayogu Eze, the national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, Prof. Moses Momoh, and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In the suit, Ogara had challenged the process that ushered in Eze as the APC governorship candidate in Enugu State on the grounds that it was against the provisions of the Electoral Act and the party’s guidelines for the conduct of party primaries. The court ordered that Ogara’s name be forwarded to INEC as the governorship candidate of the APC in Enugu State, having scored the highest votes cast in the 270 wards of the 17 local government areas in Enugu. The court declared that the plaintiff, having scored the highest number of votes cast by members of the APC in Enugu State for the governorship direct primary election conducted on October 4, 2014 at the 260 wards “is the nominated candidate of the APC”. “Plaintiff’s name is entitled to be forwarded by the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants to the 5th defendant as the candidate of the 2nd and 4th defendants in the 2019 Enugu State governorship election. “That the direct primary election for governorship aspirants conducted on 4/10/2018, wherein the plaintiff emerged as the winner on 4/10/2018, having scored the highest number of votes cast in the said direct primary election for Enugu State governorship aspirants is consistent with and in compliance with the provisions of section 87 (3) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) and Article 20 (iii) of the All Progressives Congress constitution, 2014 (as amended)”, Justice Ekwo said. The judge also restrained INEC from accepting any other name except that of Ogara for the purpose of the 2019 governorship election in Enugu State, having scored the highest votes in the primary election. In addition, the court ordered INEC to accord due recognition to Ogara, being the validly nominated candidate of the APC for the purpose of the 2019 governorship election in Enugu State. The court held that the direct primary election of the APC that produced Ogara as the party’s governorship candidate in Enugu was conducted in compliance with the party’s guidelines as well as the Electoral Act. He, therefore, ordered Oshiomhole and the APC to transmit Ogara’s name to INEC as the party’s candidate in the 2019 governorship election in the state. Justice Ekwo held that the refusal, neglect and/or failure by Oshiomhole, Prof Momoh, and the APC, 2nd to 4th defendants, to forward the name of the plaintiff to the 5th defendant as the candidate of the 4th defendant and the refusal of INEC to publish the name of the plaintiff as the candidate of APC for the governorship election contravened the provisions of section 87 (3) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) and Article 20 of the APC constitution.