Ilorin – After the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara state won the by-election of the Isin/Irepodun/Ekiti/Oke-Ero federal constituency in the state last November, the party became more confident of victory during the forthcoming general elections in the state  with the  leaders, members and sympathisers of the party expressing conviction that the party has successfully proved its readiness to dethrone the Bukola Saraki-led Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  as the ruling party in the state The by-election deprived the PDP of the federal constituency seat formerly occupied by a member of the party, Funke Adedodyin who died before her tenure expired. The election also stopped  the party from a total control of all the seats at the National Assembly in the state  as the party had before the election controlled the six seats at the House of Representatives alongside the three senatorial seats. The APC said with the victory,   a great feat has been achieved in the struggle  to take over political leadership of the state from Saraki and his PDP as it described the victory as a signal that an end to the leadership is at sight At a rally to celebrate the victory, the leader of the APC in the state, Lai Mohammed who is the Minister of Information and Culture described the victory as the fall of the Berlin Wall and urged members of the party to remain steadfast in the struggle  to achieve a total defeat of Saraki and PDP in the state. In January this year, while speaking at the commissioning of a new state secretariat of the party in Ilorin, Mohammed said the National Assembly election which will be conducted alongside the presidential one  would signal the end of domination of Saraki and the PDP in the politics of the state. The APC leader said Saraki who is contesting to retain his Kwara Central Senatorial seat at the Senate would be defeat at the poll while that defeat would scare him away from supervising, as the leader of the PDP, the governorship election that will be conducted two weeks later. He stated: “We are going to defeat the senate president massively at the February election and, as a result, he will not be around to even supervise the next election. So, the governorship election will be a walk-over for us.” The APC leader believed that the PDP will suffer defeat at the National Assembly poll and that once that defeat happened the taking over of the government of the state by his party would be a foregone conclusion because the PDP would have been, by virtue of the defeat, incapacitated beyond being able to put up a heroic fight at the governorship and state Assembly election. The candidates contesting the election in the PDP are Saraki (Kwara Central Senatorial District), Zakari Mohammed (Kwara North) Rafiu Ibrahim (Kwara South) Wahab Issa ( Ilorin East/Ilorin South Federal Constituency) Rasak Lawal (Ilorin West/Asa) Tope Olayoonu  (Offa/Oyun/Ifelodun) Dare Bankole (Isin/Irepodun/Ekiti/Oke-Ero), Hassan Babako (Patigi/Edu/Moro), and Abubakar Musa (Baruteen/Kaiama). The candidates in APC are Yahaya Oloriegbe (Kwara Central Senatorial District) Sodiq Umar (Kwara North) Lola Ashiru (Kwara South) Ganiyu Cook-Olododo (Ilorin East/South Federal Constituency), Sadiq Alajagusi (Ilorin West/Asa) Offa/Oyun/Ifelodun (Tijani Ismail), Tunji Olawuyi (Isin/ Irepodun/Ekiti/Oke-Ero), Ahmed Ndakenne (Patigi/Edu/Moro) and Mohammed  Bio Omar(Baruteen/Kaiama), The PDP and the APC are the two major parties in the state and, given the strength of the parties and other factors such as popularity of the candidates, choice of zone from  where a candidate is picked, disposition of the electorate and others, it may be difficult to decide where the pendulum will swing between the two parties. The by-election which the APC won and which, to some extent, it is citing as proof that it is set to annihilate  the PDP may not be a yardstick to  judge  that the PDP is losing control of the politics of the state. This is because sympathy votes may have aided the victory of candidate of the party, Tunji Olawuyi at the poll. It is being said that Olawuyi recently left the Saraki’s camp after being denied the opportunity to contest the post in 2015 and that as a result of what he had suffered in the camp some sympathisers decided to vote  for him. The candidates slugging it out against each other at the Kwara Central senatorial District are Saraki in PDP and Oloriegbe in APC. Though Saraki may be said to  tower above  his opponent, it cannot be ruled out that the election would be a tough fight between the two politicians. The two of them vied for the senatorial seat in 2011 when Oloriegbe, a former Majority Leader of the state House of Assembly was in the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and Saraki was in PDP as he is at present. Despite the fact that Saraki was the sitting governor of the state at the time,  the election result could be said to prove  that Oloriegbe was still a force to be reckoned with  as in Ilorin West local government of the district from where  the two of them hail he recorded 27, 000 votes as against 30, 000 by Saraki. This however  appeared to be the result of disposition of many of the electorate then who had sympathy for the ACN and who wanted a change in the political leadership of the state. Oloriegbe, after the election, was not so visible in the political terrain of the state any longer until recently when he emerged the APC candidate for the same post he vied for in 2011. However, it seems that he came at a time when again the disposition of .many of the electorate is against continued political leadership of  Saraki in the state. This means that he may also again receive votes of many of the electorate. But, he is not known to control a structure of supporters that can withstand that of Saraki at the poll. Cook-Olodo, the APC candidate for Ilorin East/Ilorin South of the district is a well-known politician in the state. He used to be in Saraki’s camp before he fell out. He would be contesting against his former colleague in that camp, Issa who is a popular politician in the camp. Issa is loved and admired for his generosity and simplicity  by many people in his constituency.  The PDP candidate who is staging a comeback after occupying the same seat at the House of Representatives in the past is likely to  enjoy greater favourable disposition of the electorate against his opponent. In north senatorial district, Mohammed who is the incumbent representative of the Baruteen/Kaiama/Moro federal constituency will lock horns with Umar of the APC and despite that Mohammed appears to be a better known politician the result of the  election may be difficult to predict. It is being said that there is a zoning arrangement in the area whereby the senatorial seat is rotated among the zones of the district. It is said that the seat supposes to be the turn of Kaiama axis where  Umar hails from after Baruteen axis and Patigi/Edu/Moro zone have produced in 2003-2011 and 2011-2019 respectively. Most of the political bigwigs in the north district are in the APC but many of them used to be in the Saraki’s camp and do not appear to retain substantial strength after they have left the camp. Mohamed may be relying on the strength of the camp as the PDP candidate to fight tough at the poll.