ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) expanded National Caucus has accused the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC) of engaging card carrying members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as Presiding officers in states and local government Areas and asked for immediate correction of the anomaly. The allegation is contained in an eight-point communiqué issued at the end of the APC caucus meeting in Abuja. The party urged INEC to use the proposed retraining of staff before the rescheduled election to redress the problem and ensure fairness and credibility of the process. The party also directed its members across the country to immediately commence campaigns in line with section 99(1) of Electoral Act which expressly say that campaigns should stop 24 hours to the election. APC Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole who read the communiqué stressed that while the party would abide by the rule law, it will not hesitate to meet INEC in Court over the attempt to stop the campaign in defiance of extant provisions. The party also queried INEC over the postponement it claimed, was known in advance to the opposition but hidden from the president of the country. The communiqué reads: “That the Party leaders expressed deep regrets over the unfortunate death of party members due to stampede as a result of overwhelming crowds during the presidential campaigns in some parts of the country. “The Caucus received with shock and disbelief the last minute postponement of the February 16 elections. The Party reiterated its disappointment over this unfortunate action, considering, especially the repeated assurances by INEC that all challenges would be overcome before the February 16th elections. “Notwithstanding the disappointment over the postponement, the Caucus urged all APC members across the country to rise above this temporary setback and recommit themselves to working with redoubled efforts for the victory of all our candidates in the February 23rd and March 9th dates for the elections. “The Caucus urged all APC members to immediately commence campaigns in line with the Provisions of Section 99 (1) of the Electoral Act, which states clearly that campaigns shall stop 24 hours to the elections. Our party would, therefore, abide by the provisions of laws. “Observed that the list of presiding officers in the States and Local Government Areas published by INEC prior to the aborted February 16 elections contained names of mostly the PDP card carrying members and urged INEC to take steps to correct this anomaly to ensure fairness and credibility of the electoral process.”