Coach Godwin Izilein is a household name in Nigerian football. He has traversed the men and women football in the country as a coach. He is among the few Nigerian coaches who have won the Africa Women Cup of Nations (AWCON) with the Super Falcons (2004). Izilein has had a stint with lots of Nigerian league clubs as Bendel Insurance of Benin; the defunct New Nigerian Bank of Benin and Dolphins of Port Harcourt to mention but a few. Presently the Technical Director of Inneh Queens of Benin, in this interview with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT Senior Correspondent, STEVE OMA-OFOZOR, he dealt with lots of issues bordering on Nigerian football. Excerpts. What is your impression of Super Eagles ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt? I believe in current form; the good thing about the Super Eagles is that the boys are doing well in their clubs; but like Gernot Rohr said – “there is no big player” – but the fact that the players are doing well in their clubs, is enough for one to have confidence that they can do well as a team in any competition. Like Victor Moses who just got a club and thanks to God he is in fine shape and doing fine in the club – that is to Nigeria’s advantage. So, I have confidence in the team that they will do well at the coming Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON).  If the boys were not doing well in their clubs, one would have cause to worry. At the same time they have to maintain their form and there should be no distraction. Good you just mentioned Victor Moses, what is also your impression about him for the Super Eagles? I think it is a misconception when Moses retired from the national team; the best thing to have happened then was to go to him and ask him one or two questions on what happened that he had to retire at such early age– maybe one or two things must have been responsible for his decision. This was exactly what coach (Gernot Rohr) did and that showed some elements of professionalism – I commend him for that. If Moses agree to come back, he has to succumb to the whims and caprices of the coach as a player. Once a good player, is always a good player, no matter how long or short the break maybe; all he needs do is to condition himself and get into the game. Moses is a good player any day and any time. I know him as a young player; he has a lot of quality in him; he is still an asset for the country. Mikel Obi is another big name in the Super Eagles, he has returned to England and playing in the Championship; can he still be an asset to the team? Mikel coming back into the game after injury is good news too, but I cannot say straight away that he should be part of the team. He should be watched carefully; he is a good player and captain of the team and I have not said he should be discarded. But, let him take his time – the English Championship is a very competitive league that can help strengthen any player. Flying Eagles where in the Africa U-20 Nations Cup in Niger, they saw but could conquer, what do you think? This is the first time the national team coaches will work pari passu for the good of the country’s team. Nobody knows it all; it is a good development that Rohr has taken interest in the Flying Eagles – working with Paul Aigbogun to improve the team ahead of the youth championship. It will enable them to put the team in good shape and that will help the team do well in the championship in Poland. At the same time, Rohr showing interest in the youth team means, he is now interested in the local players that he can get into the Super Eagles. If they do well in the Youth World Cup, some of them can metamorphose into the senior team and Rohr will not stop them. However, that they did not do well (get to the final and win the trophy) at the Africa U-20 Championship is not enough to blame them, though it is painful when a team don’t win trophy in a competition.  But, let us always be proactive – let us not preempt what the boys can or cannot do, but let’s support the team by putting every necessary structure in place for them to be focused always – the right thing should be done at the right time. But, I believe the collaboration between Rohr and Aigbogun presently will produce good result at the end; Aigbogun was my boy and he is somebody who always want to learn; he is a very humble man. I thank God that they qualified for the World Cup in Poland, which is most important – the team, I’m sure will get better. NPFL this season (2018-19), what would you have to say about the league and performance of the clubs so far? The saddest aspect of the Nigeria Professional League (NPFL) is the hooliganism that is catching up with it. If not carefully handled, it will affect the rating and standard of the league. It needs the intervention of the club owners and managers. Why should anybody think that his team must win all the time? The philosophy of the game is that – you win some and lose some. Why must anybody fight or manhandle and official because a match was lost? This idea of my team must win is a minus for the league. Some people believed that they can manipulate the referees to get victory and that makes the players become lazy to do well and when they are invited into the national team, you find them wanting – they find it difficult to prove themselves. I see some of the club owners managements as responsible for the hooliganism that is found in our league today, because of win at all cost which should not be. But I am of the opinion that any club found wanting should be severely punished by the authorities; the managers of the league should impose stiffer penalties on offenders, no matter whose ox is gored. If the players are involved, they should be suspended, if they can’t play football again let them go and farm. Football is form of an entertainment, it is meant to entertain people, make people relax and those who don’t want others to enjoy it should be sent away, otherwise, let’s cancel the game if it’s no more enjoyable. Nobody should support hooliganism in Nigerian football anywhere – it is a game that brings all of us together. Alright, what do you think about the abridged league? Let me say this clearly – it used to be very difficult, strenuous for us in those days to travel from Benin to Maiduguri, Kano Bauchi and other distance places to play matches because of the financial implications and how it affects players’ performance. Clubs that are not buoyant enough don’t find it easy to undertake some of the trips and all that, at the end of the day they have little or no money to prosecute the game. Players are cramped together in few rooms-two, three to four persons sleeping in one hotel room. The abridged league, however, has reduced financial expenses of clubs, it has brought about early prosecution of the games to and has enabled clubs prepare well for major continental championships – hence I advised the national team coaches to always visit the league venues in their zone so that they can get one or two players that will be good for the national team. Now let us look at officiating would say it has improved? Officiating in Nigeria’s league has improved tremendously. That is why one can see teams winning at away and losing at home. If a team play well the victory will come. The referees are now on top of the game. Any referee that is worth his salt will not tolerate rubbish and will not want to soil his name. If he chooses to, that is his own funeral. But a good referee must show his level of professionalism – officiate the game fairly – and the best team will win. As a former Super Falcons coach, you won gold in 2004; how do you see the present team? Let me tell you straight away! The Super Falcons of today are not good enough to represent the country anymore, because most of the players are tired legs. I’m of the opinion that we should assemble the eight teams and organise a play-off and pick the players that can make the national team from among them. This is exactly what we did in Bauchi in 1991 when our good friend, Pau l Hamilton of blessed memory was in charge.  That was how Rita Nwadike, Perpetua and others came in – we got our team from there and they went straight to the World Cup. No coach can stay at home and get his players, the players too have to be playing regularly, but that is not the case for now, these girls are tired. One thing I have discovered in female team is that the younger you are the better. With our kind of living (economy and welfare style), most of them cannot maintain themselves for the advantage of our league. Some of them are thinking of their children and husband, they have to think of themselves and their families – so, no concentration, family demand and all overwhelms them. Historically, I brought the idea of female team to Nigeria. When I was in my training in Germany, I fell in love with female football, they were training pari passu with the male team then. When I returned in 1974, I put it in my report (the training was of national interest) that there was need for the country to have female team. We started first in Edo State, then Bendel – thank God for the then sports secretary, late Patrick Okpomo, who implemented it. So, we need to expose our younger players and when they are getting old we look for something for them to do – to keep them going.  The present coaches of the team are being paid huge money; let them work. They should start assembling a new team now, through a play off and get quality young players. Nigeria is too slow at the moment, for how long that we have been playing in the World Cup, yet Nigeria has not been able achieve anything (winning the World Cup) because we have been going with tired legs. You are the Technical Director at Inneh Queens of Benin, what is it like? As the Technical Director, I’m ensuring we raise a pool of players – young ones – for Edo State. I’m combining it with their academics. It is education and sport, so that when they retire they can have something to fall back on. I can tell you it has been an interesting challenge, because catching them, grooming them from the grassroots has been my business and it’s going to be good for the state. Finally, what is your impressin about Azizat Oshoala? Oshoala is getting out of it. This is the time to look for alternative for her. There is no sentiment about it. In the last championship, she was a minus; some of them could not even turn – they were turning like trailer. That she is now is in Barcelona Ladies is no big deal. Some of the clubs are just starting female team and they need people like Oshoala that can play a role model that’s all. But when it comes to competition proper, you can’t find her there. Some of them who are knowledgeable can be trained as coaches, but not to go and coach national teams because you played in the national team before. They must go through the mill and get the necessary experience needed to handle teams at that level. 