Lagos – Traditions, according to experts, are established to protect and guide humanity. The late Afro beat legend, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti hinted on the importance of tradition in his song, Teacher Don’t Teach Me Nonsense. Some traditions have evolved with development and time over the years, while many others continue to linger. A good number of traditions are rather putting noose around the indigenes’ neck than protecting humanity. Several age long traditions have been found to be responsible for the country’s backwardness in her socio-economic and political stadia. Such traditions include Osu (outcast), female genital mutilation/cutting; female children not allowed to inherit properties from their father and younger siblings not allowed to marry before the elder ones. Others are that a divorced woman is not allowed to marry another man when the former husband is still around; wives used to entertain guests, male siblings inheriting their late brother’s wife and many others. Myths, superstition and rituals carried out by ancestors which have transcend into age long traditions are what guide many African communities. A symbolic example that cut the attention of Saturday INDEPENDENT recently is the age long tradition in a small town near Onitsha GRA in Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State (name of the town withheld). The tradition is called ‘Isa Ivi’ meaning confession. By principle, it was gathered that a curse was laid down by a deity that if a wife commits adultery and his husband knows but the wife does not confess openly, the husband will die miserably. The only remedy is if necessary rituals are carried out on time to cleanse the wife from the abomination she has committed. It is therefore mandatory for such husband to report the incidence of his adulterous wife to the elders within a specific deadline to avoid his mysterious death. Pending the time when the wife confesses her atrocities in front of the whole villagers, the husband is not allowed to eat, drink or relate in any form with the wife. The woman in question is billed to carry a local breed he-goat, round about the village, confessing all she did in the hidden. She is expected to mention openly the names of the men that she dated; those she slept with; those who asked her to date them and of course every man that have playfully touched any of her private parts. The major business of the entire village is fishery as the community is blessed with a good number of rivers. Larger percentages of the indigenes are traditional worshippers and the village is physically occupied by altars and shrines at closed range. As it is a taboo to hide their religion, traditional worshippers are proud of their religious practices not minding how fetish the tradition may be termed by non-conformists. Though there are Christians and churches in the town, many still hold on to their little gods which they place at strategic locations  in their compound. An indigene of the town, Maryann Okeke (not her real name) told Saturday INDEPENDENT that while growing up, she thought the tradition was just superstitious with the intention of using it to scare new brides to desist from extra marital affairs until her father began to give her instances of families marred with the stigma. Okeke recalled that long ago, an elderly chieftain guessed that their ancestors, one from each kindred in the town must have come together and agreed on the ‘isa ivi’ curse on adulterers. According to the chieftain who is said to be late now, they agreed of the ritual of redemption from the curse and must have thrown it in the river. Though not confirmed as the actual event, but may possibly be the reason the curse still prevails over any adulterer. “I remember my father once told me that, back then any ritual thrown into a river remains potent as long as the river still flows,” she said. Speaking with one of the village council executives,  Paul Okwu confirmed that the tradition is still potent till date regardless of advent of new religious movement. Mr Okwu, who stated that he is now a born again Christian, explained that being a member of most of the age grade meetings gave him deep knowledge of the tradition. He told Saturday INDEPENDENT that the tradition has sent several young men to early grave, stressing the potency of the curse on indigenes of the village. “Isa ivi has killed many people in our village, knowingly and unknowingly. Presently, new generation do not understand the taboo that surrounds the tradition. Until this tradition is abolished completely, many may continue to die mysteriously unknown to them what the course is. This new generation who do not understand this tradition, marry women from other towns and tribes. Once the woman is married to the son of the soil, the curse becomes binding on the woman. Once the woman commits any form of adultery and hides it, it can either kill the unsuspecting husband who continues to eat her food or kill their son,” he said. Another twist to the curse is that men who commit the adultery with the married women is not totally spared. Once the woman confesses and calls any man’s name as one of the people she dated or asked her out for a date, the man must buy a local breed he-goat and take it to the first son of his kindred to clear his name and keep him safe from the curse. Okwu stated that this twist is what worries him about the young generation of men from his village who are ignorant of the tradition. “Most of them may have ignorantly followed married women from our town without knowing the dire consequences,” she said. He told a short story about his uncle who died in 1984 but the villagers refused to bury him because five women mentioned his name in their ritual confession as having dated him. His uncle ignored doing the needful until he dies. Before he was buried, his relatives were mandated to buy five he-goats, representing the five women he committed adultery with before his burial rites commenced. On how adulterer can redeem herself and husband, he said that aside dragging a he-goat round the village, the woman will use her mouth to pick kolanut placed on the head of a popular deity called okptu. On if daughters of the land who are married to other towns and tribes are affected by this curse, he said “No, once you are married to another town, you are free, except you are married to a man from our town.” To end the curse, Okwu stated that he has asked many of the elders in the village to help stop the tradition but they declined, saying as long as they are still alive, the curse will not be broken. With the prevalent increase in the number of young men that die as a result of this tradition, Saturday INDEPENDENT inquired on how this deadly curse can be broken. Okwu however said it will take a divine intervention through a strong prophet or man of God. “When I say man of God, I don’t mean fake pastor. I mean someone called by God who can first pray to find out the foundation of the curse, how it was made; whether the sacrifice was made with blood or not and how it can be broken,” he said. Another middle aged man from the town, Emeka Eze explained that some women who married in their town with the knowledge of the existence of such tradition devised a diabolic way to counter the deity that casts the confession spell but ended up being inflicted with spirit of madness. “From what I heard, some of them consulted other deity to avert the consequences but end up running mad,” he stated. Modern cultures and advanced research have proved that some other age long traditions like killing of twins and discrimination against albinos were established based on superstitions and myth. As time went on, killing of twins became a thing of the past in many communities. Twins are now viewed as a double blessing rather than a curse as foretold in the past. The tradition of not marrying from an osu (outcast) family is one of the most common traditions in the south east. In almost every state in the south east back in the days, there is always a family fingered as outcast. Other people are neither allowed to associate nor marry from such families. Christianity and modernisation have curbed the Osu culture to a large extent. But from time to time in Obowo town and Mba Ise in Imo State, stories of someone being an outcast rears its head. The elders in the village kindred are the agents that nurture and uphold these traditions from going into extinction. They pass the traditions to the younger generation as they become old. Amara, a young graduate told Saturday INDEPENDENT how a distant cousin was stopped from marrying a man of her dreams. Out of frustration, the lady in question married someone else who nearly took her life with incessant beating. “Onyeka, my distant cousin is a victim of outcast tradition. I call her a victim because she was already planning her white wedding when her family called her attention to the fact that after they carried out their personal investigations on her husband-to-be, they confirmed he hailed from an outcast family. “Crying her eyes out could not stop her family from returning all the marriage rite goods. The father insisted that he would prefer she cries her eyes out than excommunicating her from the family. Onyeka married another man after a few years and later returned to her family when she could not stand the beating from her husband anymore,” she said. Amara further explained that no amount of love between the couple, not even pregnancy on the girl’s part can change the heart of families that still believe in osu (outcast). “The worst that can happen is that the family will excommunicate any child who insisted on marrying an osu,” she added. Going home after the day’s job, Uju Ken, a journalist could not help but threw up the age long tradition topic to start a conversation in the tricycle. One of the women, also a passenger, was so bitter that tradition prevented her from inheriting anything from her late father. The reason was that she is a woman and women are expected to marry and go to another man’s land. The lady, who said she hails from Benin stated that though she was not expected to get any property, did not deter her village elders from including her name on the list of children that would contribute money for the burial. “One of our uncles, after seeing the money I spent for the burial was ranting that he will move heaven and earth to make sure I got something. That sounded like a sarcastic rant to me because I knew he cannot do anything. I told him all I wanted is to bury my dad and that’s all. Women do not inherit properties in Benin, only on exceptions. That is if your father wrote a will or handed over a property to you before he died. That is the only time a woman can be allowed to own such properties.” More so in all Igbo culture, female children are never given any land in their fathers’ home town. According to the earlier respondent, it is also forbidden in Benin for female children to be given a land in her father’s home town. “Female children will marry one day and move to their husband’s house. In this contest, once you are married, the woman is not expected to return to her father’s house no matter what she is going through in her husband’s house.” A woman who does not want her name mention recalled the birth of her three children. When she had the first two girls, she got the normal congratulatory message  from her in-laws. When her third baby arrived and it was a boy, the felicitation changed. Her husband got a call from their uncle in the village demanding the name of the baby so as to include his name on the list of sons due to receive land in their home town. “My son was not up to two days old when my husband received that call. That showed me the extent female children are not recognised in Igbo land. I mean I have been hearing about it. I witnessed it that day. Immediately my son turned one year, the uncle called again asking my husband to come down to the village to secure our sons land ” she said. Most times, greedy elders use the tradition of inheriting property by only men for their own selfish interest. There are several cases where widows are thrown out of their late husband’s house with their children by the family. Their claim is that the property belongs to their brother and since the woman has no male child, she (the widow) and her female children cannot inherit such properties. In a report in May 2016, Chief Isaiah Fayomi, the Alaga of Onikola (chairman of circumcisers) was said to be in the trade of circumcising both male and female children for over 60 years. It was surprising to United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFP) that such act still exists even with all the campaigns against it in the media. In the ancient Town of Ile-Ife, Osun State where the team met with Fayomi, he explained how he inherited the trade from his forefathers. When asked what fascinates him about the trade, the octogenarian answered, “I think that question ought to be directed to my fore-parents but unfortunately, they have gone to the great beyond.” Though Fayomi informed all at the gathering that he stopped mutilating and cutting girls since it became a crime. “I am scared of government officials who may come over to arrest me, I don’t see anything wrong in the practice,” he said. Female Genital Mutilation/ Cutting (FGM/C) has been fingered by many nongovernmental organisations, agencies and victims as a deliberate attempt to deny women of pleasurable sex. The part of the genitals being mutilated, clitoris, is the most sensitive part of a woman that determined the satisfaction in sexual intercourse. The Myths of FGM in Nigeria is the main driving force for sustaining the tradition in most communities that practice it. They believe it is the wish of their ancestors for girls to be circumcised. They believe that female circumcision protect moral behavior of women in society; assure faithfulness of women to their husbands; acceptance into adult society, control of women’s sexuality and increased fertility. They also insist that clitoris is a dangerous organ and must be cut. According to them, clitoris will damage husband’s organ. This was proved wrong by a teenage mother, Damilola who narrated to Saturday INDEPENDENT how she was circumcised twice as an infant. She stated that while she was still in the secondary school, she got pregnant with her first boyfriend. “I was only 15 then. After putting to bed, I relocated to Lagos to write GCE since I could not write my West African School Certificate (WASC). I got pregnant with my second baby while waiting for the results,” she said. Chinelo Nnenna recalled the frustration of her roommate, Ekaette during her National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) service year. Ekaette opened up that she never enjoys sex with her boyfriend and that is the reason she is adventurous to find a man who can give her maximum satisfaction. Nnenna said that she remembered asking her series of questions to know why a 23 year-old girl would say she is hardly satisfied and discovered that she was circumcised when she was 10 years old by her grandmother. “I was in tears when Ekaette told the story of her life. Her father abandoned her mother when she was a baby for another woman. When she turned nine years old, her mother found another man who wanted to marry her but wanted nothing to do with her daughter, so her mother left her with her grandmother to live with her new husband. When the grandmother found out that Ekaette was never circumcised, the condition to keep staying in her home was to get it done. Ekaette says she still feels empty like she felt after she was circumcised,” Nnenna said. It is therefore important for stakeholders in government and religious institutions to take cognitive measure on menace of excesses of archaic traditions to prevent its deadly consequences.