Gunmen in the early hours of Tuesday killed 15 persons, including Ade Marafa, the elder sister of a serving senator, Kabiru Marafa, and kidnapped six women in Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Again, armed bandits stormed Batauna village and killed 11 persons and set houses ablaze, according to the District Head of Gwashi in Bukkuyum Local Government Area of the state. SP Muhammad Shehu, Police Public Relations Officer, Zamfara State command, said that early on Tuesday there was an attack in Wonaka, Ajja, Mada, Ruwan Baure, Doka, Takoka and Tudun-Maijatau villages of Mada district in Gusau area. He said a woman was among the persons killed, adding that the attackers also kidnapped six women and a man. “Fortunately, with the efforts of police and sister security agencies, the abducted women have regained their freedom and have re-joined their families. “Normalcy has been restored to the affected villages, with improved deployment of PMF, CTU, Special Forces and military teams to the area to forestall further attack on neighbouring villages. “The attack is presumably a reprisal to the attack on some Fulanis in a J5 vehicle on February 1, 2019 where seven Fulanis and their animals were killed and set ablaze by the outlawed Yansakai,” he said. Earlier, Abubakar Tsafe, an aide to Senator Kabiru Marafa, said the bandits struck at the residence of the senator’s sister, noting that the suspected bandits numbering about 100 set the village ablaze after raiding it. “More than half of Ruwan Baure village has been burnt by the bandits. The villagers are now seeking refuge at Mada, a neighbouring community,” he said in a statement. Tsafe said at the time of issuing the statement, the senator’s brother in-law had not been found. An eyewitness, Usman Makama, told newsmen that the hoodlums attacked the village head’s house, where they killed one of his wives before moving into the village. “They put the gun in her mouth and blew up her head after which they abducted the village head and one other person and then moved inside the village. “This morning, we carried out the burial rites of 13 persons including Ade, the district head’s wife and we were told that the bandits attacked two other villages of Tudun Wadan Mai Jatau and Takoka where they killed scores,” he said. In another development, Muhammad Shehu, the PPRO, said that the District Head of Gwashi in Bukkuyum Local Government Area reported to the police that armed bandits stormed Batauna village and killed 11 persons and set houses ablaze. He, however, said that the details were sketchy to the police due to distance and terrain inaccessibility and lack of GSM coverage in area. “Units of PMF/CTU/Special Forces and military were mobilized to complement the effort of security personnel already on ground and also confirm the authenticity of the report. “The entire area and environs have been subjected to coordinated bush-combing for possible arrest of the perpetrators. “The command urges members of the public to avoid taking laws into their hands and always report all complaints and grievances to constituted authority for legal redress. “Discreet investigation into this dastardly act has already commenced and all perpetrators will be fished out and made to face the full wrath of the law,” he said.