Victor Umeh, lawmaker representing Anambra Central Senatorial District in this interview with select journalists, speaks on tomorrow’s rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections. RAYMOND OZOJI brings the excerpts: Do you still have confidence that INEC will conduct credible elections come Saturday? I am a positive-minded person . If I say I have lost confidence in INEC , will I continue with the election ? We will give INEC benefit of doubt with the hope that the commission will deliver credible elections . They must audit the ad-hoc personnel to be sure that they have not taken staff from candidates contesting in the elections. Anybody who wants to conduct credible elections should avoid interested parties who may smuggle in poll officials. The Independent National Electoral Commission should also make promises it can keep . It is not about preparing for logistics and lose sight of the ad-hoc personnel which are recruited outside the commission . The commission should ensure that relations of candidates in the elections are not recruited as ad-hoc staff.  Although the commission acted within the ambit of the law in the poll shift but the nation must bear with the commission even though the postponement was less than seven hours to the election proper . They must find a way to cushion the negative effects of the shift. Furthermore the presence of ad-hoc personnel who are not INEC certified is still a source of danger to the credibility of the elections. It is not the first time elections are being postponed . In 2015 , elections were shifted by more than one month .So it is very possible that INEC is facing genuine challenges that necessitated the shift . I do not want to say that APC is responsible for the poll shift because INEC is an independent electoral commission. So,  I am not someone who trade blames without justifications .  What is your assessment of security apparatus deployed for the polls ? Well I saw soldiers on stop and search duties in almost all the junctions across my senatorial zone . Those who are notorious election riggers , planned again to rig the elections . Cultists were mobilized into my local government area Anaocha and they were camped in different hotels . Strangers were flooding the local government in shuttle buses and 608 buses . Now that the elections didn’t take place, they unleashed their anger on my posters and billboards defacing and destroying them across the senatorial district . The commissioner of police in Anambra has to find a way to prevent influx and movements of criminal elements two days before the elections . The security agencies must continue to guard the process till the election day proper . Your words of encouragement to your teeming supporters and party members ? We have no option than to wait for INEC to do the right thing . INEC should desist from using ad-hoc staff gotten from candidates . Some candidates have tried to compromise the electoral commission by smuggling in Supervisory Presiding Officers , Collation Officers , Presiding Officers and from what I heard it did appear that something like that happened because those who do the business are still within the electoral process . There is no amount of promise that INEC would make to deliver a credible election , if the commission does not purge itself of having arrangements with candidates to submit list of ad-hoc staff .