PROF. ITSE SAGAY (SAN) I am writing to expose the fraudulent misconduct of some crooked Lawyers who have been appearing on T.V Programmes. 1. First, these Lawyers lie glibly that Judicial Officers are not Public Officers. Please refer to the 5th Schedule of the Constitution Part 2 paragraph 5, which defines who a Public Officer is. PUBLIC OFFICERS FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT “(5) Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice of the Supreme Court, Presidents and Justices of the Court of Appeal, all other Judicial Officers and all Staff of Courts of Law” You can now see that these Lawyers, Senior Advocates and All have been indulging in monumental lies on Television, misleading the public. 2. Another major lie is that a public officer who commits a breach of the Code of Conduct by failing to declare some of his assets, is free from liability, provided he makes a written admission of such breach or non-compliance. For this they rely on the proviso to section 3 of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act 1989. However, if one refers to the provisions of the Constitution, there is no such exemption from punishment. I refer specifically to the 5th Schedule part 1 paragraph 18 of the Constitution. That paragraph provides for the punishment for a breach of dignity, receive responsible care and to be handled with kindness; to be encouraged and nurtured emotionally, intellectually, and spiritually; to have their physical needs adequately met, including nutrition, housing, and medical care. Also, to receive a good education that provides competence and empowers them to be self-sufficient. “To be taught good values and morals to guide them in life; to learn about God’s personal love and care for them; to be taught boundaries and self-discipline; to be empowered to realize their full potential. To be prepared for the responsibilities and challenges of adulthood to develop their individuality. To be treated fairly and justly, without discrimination. To be in a safe environment; to be protected from harm and danger “I will promote a high standard of care, protection, education, socialisation, and recreation for children in the constituency. Our profound respect for children and the importance of their care and upbringing is an integral part of our beliefs.” Mrs Sanusi reiterated her commitment to safeguarding children from harm and promoting the importance of educating and preparing children to be able to protect them. She stressed: “We understand that children are vulnerable and need the protection of adults, both their parents and other adults, such as their teachers, caregivers, or adults responsible for their supervision during child-oriented activities. We believe that those entrusted with the care of children are responsible to protect them and keep them safe.” She said she has been engaging in a variety of programmes around the world aimed at assisting disadvantaged children and providing them opportunities to rise above their circumstances. Thus, she said she would engage in educational, motivational, and character-building programmes for the benefit of children in her constituency. She said she would assist in building schools in depressed areas, offer material and humanitarian aids; carry out programmes in juvenile detention centres; engage in vocational training for children with disabilities; do programmes in orphanages; carry out medical assistance and health programmes. According to her, every child should deserve an opportunity for a bright future. Sanusi stressed: “We will produce a variety of educational publications and podcasts for children and teens. These present character-building lessons in ways that appeal to youth. I believe that every child has the right to receive an education that empowers them to realise their full potential.” On healthcare, Sanusi maintained that her proudest achievement would be the provision of universal healthcare for all on the basis of need, which would be free at the point of use. According to her, “I will sponsor bills on the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) to give patients the modern, well-resourced services they need for the 21st century. I will ensure that patients get the world-class quality of care they need and that staff are able to deliver the standards that patients expect.” He added: “I will raise bills that will lead to increased funding to General Practice (GP) services to ensure patients can access the care they need. The bill, if passed, will halt pharmacy cuts and review provision to ensure all patients have access to pharmacy services, particularly in deprived or remote communities.”