Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin is Founder and General Overseer of Christ Mercyland Deliverance Ministry, Effurun, Delta State. In this interview with JOHN AMUDO, he spoke on the forthcoming general elections and why it should be peaceful. Excerpts: What is your prediction about the general elections that will commence this weekend? This is a trying moment for Christians, especially the clergy. It behooves on all of us as Christians to pray and seek the face of God for a peaceful and crisis-free exercise. We don’t have power of our own and God Almighty is the ultimate. We should always draw closer to God in everything that we do. Don’t forget that God is the Alpha and Omega. He is the beginning and the end. He sees things differently from the way we see things too. Could you take an overview of the forthcoming election? Definitely, God Almighty should come and assist us because He is the saviour of mankind. However, I detest unnecessary shedding of blood. In fact, there is no reason we should be killing each other because of elections. God Almighty in His throne of grace has already known those that will emerge victorious at the end of the exercise. So, we should stop killing ourselves for nothing. God created us to prosper and live together, like brothers and sisters. So, why should we kill each other? It is in the Bible that we should allow brotherly love to continue. Also the Ten Commandments says,  “Thou shall not kill”. Above all, we should stop the unwholesome attitude. What further efforts are clerics making towards ensuring a peaceful exercise? The truth is that I, with Apostle Suleiman, Pastor Chris Okafor and other great men of God have been praying fervently for the peace of this great nation and also for the purpose of this election because we don’t want any bloodshed in any part of the country. It is not necessary because we are all brothers and sisters, and we belong to one indivisible family. Could you tell the nation who will be their next president? I don’t belong to any political party. So, it is not necessary for me to predict who will win or lose the election. My candid advice to Nigerians is that we should embrace whoever God places on the throne as the President of this great African nation, called Nigeria. But, we should remember that elections are not worth dying for because in the words of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. He said that no soul should be lost because of election. Rather, we should continue to embrace each other as one because we belong to one large family. My business in this wise is to ensure there is abundant peace at all times and let justice be done. Since the past four years, Nigerians have been facing serious hardship. What do you think is the way out of this quagmire? With God, all things are possible. Remember that we did not create ourselves. Rather, it is God Almighty that created us. What the Almighty made is perfect and He added no sorrow. So, let all of us look up to God because He is Alpha and Omega and the creator of the universe. Remember that everything that is happening in Nigeria is for a purpose. That is why we have to give glory to God in all our undertaking. We should stop worrying ourselves because no one knows the mind of God.