General Joseph  Okoloagu, a prominent member of the Ime-Obi Ohanaeze (think-thank bod)y, in this interview with CELESTINE OKAFOR, condemned what he described as the politicisation of the Igbo socio-cultural organisation known as the Ohanaeze Ndigbo. He also spoke on other issues of interest. Excerpts: What do you make out of the recent endorsement of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, by Ohaneze Ndi-Igbo which you are a member of the Ime-Obi? I started playing active part in Ohaneze Ndigbo when I retired from military service in 2002. Precisely in 2003, 2004, 2005, l was a member of the group led by Retired Admiral Ndubisi Kanu that toured round the entire states of the North and other parts of the country to harmonise our members, because Ohaneze was having problem then. The preponderance of opinion is that Ohaneze Ndigbo is a very important organisation that should represent the socio-cultural interest of the Igbos. I have consistently attended the meetings of Ohaneze, but the fact remains that it is not the first time that the leadership of Ohaneze is veering into politics. I am conscious of the fact that I joined a political party and to be precise, the defunct Action Congress (AC). I was a founding member of AC which platform I used to contest for senatorial election in 2007 and which I won even at the tribunal, but lost at the Appeal Court when I could not bring the money the judge demanded. That was when I tested the bitter experience of the corruption in the judiciary. Be that as it may, because I joined politics, it doesn’t deter me from attending crucial meetings of Ohaneze. I want to also point out that I am a founding member of All Progressives Congress (APC) that is probably why I am a member of Board of Trustees (BoT) representing Enugu State. Having given this political background, I like to say that Ohaneze Ndigbo by constitution and effect supposed to be insulated from all forms of politics. Any leadership of Ohaneze Ndigbo that has dabbled into politics has always ended badly. This is not the first time Ohanaeze is dabbling into political endorsement of party candidates without consultation and due process. In 2005/2006, Ohaneze endorsed Obasanjo’s Ill-fated third term ambition. When that happened, some of us members cried and shouted against it. Those of us who believed in God went back to God praying that third term should not happen. A third term in Nigeria would have been something else. In short, there wouldn’t have been Nigeria today. They did the same thing again during Jonathan, gambled into politics and endorsed Jonathan in 2011 and 2015. There is an Igbo adage that says that “If an Old Woman falls twice, there is need to take stock of the content of her basket”. I as a chieftain of APC, l have never cared about the endorsement because I know it will be of no effect. The Igbos by nature are republicans and you don’t go and ridicule yourself by claiming to do what you know is impossible. What of the timing and circumstances leading to the endorsement? Coming to the significance and circumstances of the endorsement, I want us to draw certain common sense questions which I am directing to the entire Igbo race. Assuming but not conceding that Ohaneze adopted PDP Presidential candidate, what becomes of son and daughter of Igbo extraction who are in the race. Because at the time of adopting Atiku, Oby Ezekwesili was very much in the race and Prof. Kingsely Moghalu who is waxing strong by the day was also in the race and still is. Muoghalu was adopted by Wole Soyinka not long ago. How can a socio-cultural organization like the Ohanaeze claiming to be representing the interest of a race make an adoption to the exclusion of its own people who are also contesting the same position. So that tells you the nonsense that was made of the name of Ohaneze. Was Prof. Moghalu consulted to obtain his consent? Has he withdrawn from the race? Was Oby Ezekwesili consulted even though she withdrew from the race? These are children of Igbo extraction. You don’t do such thing. No Socio-Cultural organization like the Ohanaeze dabbles into such things. There was an attempt by Afenifere to do same, but they were shut down by prominent Yoruba sons and daughters informing them that it was not in their place to do such a thing. It is called in the legal palace “Impossibility of performance”. I am an old lawyer with almost 40 years experience in the bar. You can’t without the consent of an individual alienate his constitutional right and assume you are speaking for her or him. That is why the leadership of Ohaneze as at 24th of January, 2019 made a mess of itself. Can you tell us a bit about the internal workings of Ohanaeze? How does its Think-thank body called Ime-Obi works? Let me take you into the workings of the constitution of Ohaneze. I am an old member of Ime-obi Ohanaeze and by virtue of the constitution, the Ime-obi is actually the think-tank as you already know that initiates actions or programs for the good and development of the Igbo race. PDP is not an exclusive Igbo party, therefore it is not qualified for a kind of thing that Ime-obi should consider or adjudicate on. Even if after Ime-obi has agreed after obtaining the consent of majority of people sitting at the Ime-obi, their decision must be ratified by the Ohanaeze general assembly. It is the general assembly that give strong effect and legality on anything around that Ime-obi. That tells you how and why the action of 24th January 2019 of Ohaneze leadership purporting to support Atiku Abubakar is a nullity and of no affect whatsoever. In essence, are you saying that the Igbos should disregard the action of Ohanaeze as a gamble that should not be taken seriously by Ndigbo? That is how it should be! There are certain underground things that made us not to take it seriously. What is it and who are the “us” you are talking about? Is it the PDP Ohanaeze or the APC Ohanaeze? Okay, let’s take it from the grouping you have just made. We had a press conference that night. Some people said it was APC Ohaneze, fine. Just know that PDP Ohaneze went and took a decision to the exclusion of APC Ohaneze. The common denominator here is Ohaneze, whether APC Ohaneze of PDP Ohaneze, Ohaneze must have consensus. That consensus ad idem is absolute before anybody can say he is representing a body. Was the timing of the meeting right? The meeting of Ime-obi Ohaneze was proposed by the President-General, Chief John Nnia Nwodo to be held on 24th of January 2019 in Enugu. The timing was 3: PM or there are about. Now, the time you were putting this meeting was uncomfortable for us. We don’t know the urgency of the meeting, but if we must meet, we said the meeting have to be shifted to later in the day when President Buhari who was visiting that must have left Anambra where he has gone to commission Zik’s mausoleum. Apart from the campaign rally he had, the president had to commission the mausoleum which he completed. He came with good tidings given the investment they made in Niger Bridge and road projects. The mere fact that the leadership of Ohaneze contemplated fixing that meeting that day was in bad taste. Again, there are automatic members of Ime-obi Ohaneze, the sitting governors and former governors, sitting President of Senate and former senate presidents and other highly placed people. Senior military officers who have attained my rank of Army General and above are also automatic members of Ime-obi. I was not contacted for the meeting. Even if I was contacted, I wouldn’t give it any effect because I know it was intended to achieve distraction and not for the good of Igbos.