Lagos – When Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi went to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan on Saturday, February 9 for medical check-up and was told he will be admitted because he needs bed rest, little did he know that he will not return home. His Personal Assistant, Tunde Shamsudeen in a chat with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT said he never survived the bed rest as he passed on to eternal rest. Fondly called ‘Skippo’ or ‘Sole’, Ogunjobi died at the ripe age of 65 years. “We were together in Ilesa on Thursday, February 7 for Ijesha Golden Warriors’ 50th anniversary. But on Saturda, February 9 he called and asked me to represent him at the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) Osun State Chapter awards night, saying he wasn’t feeling too fine. “He then went to UCH for a check-up and I learnt he was admitted on bed rest only for his driver to call me that he died on Monday morning”, said Shamsudeen. In his reaction to Ogunjobi’s death,Ex-international, Chief Segun Odegbami said his death was a very big and painful blow to the country. “Taiye’s death was a very big and painful blow. I can imagine how it will devastate a while army of his friends in the sports fraternity, many of whom he courted and often also empowered through the years. “His passage is a reminder of our mortality as well as the vanity of the pursuit of materialism and of scoring cheap political points at the expense of genuine friendship and unconditional love. “We are all ageing and getting slowly and steadily to the gates of our earthly terminus, waiting for our turn to return to our Creator when the bell tolls”, said Odegbami. He described Ogunjobi as a great administrator and worthy Nigerian. “Taiwo was a great administrator and master of the political game. He served football, Oyo and Ogun States, and the country very well. “He will live forever in our hearts. His place in the annals of Nigerian football is also well assured. May the Lord consoles his wife, his surviving siblings, his children and grandchildren”, prayed Odegbami. President of the Nigeria Referees Association (NRA), Otunba Tade Azeez said Ogunjobi died as a football person. “Hearing about his demise was a shock to us all in the Nigerian football family. He was a person we thought would be around for about 20 to 30 years more. “He has been in the football circle for a long time because he started as early as possible and he died as a football person”, said Azeez mournfully. The NRA president further recounted that Ogunjobi was an amiable man, who wanted everyone around him to be happy and went the extra mile to put smiles on all faces. First Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi, said Ogunjobi paid his dues in the football circle before his death. “He was a humble, charismatic and humorous personality. For someone who had seen it all, from being a former international and hugely successful club player and administrator, to being the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the NFF and later as Member of the Board, he was down-to-earth. “It is still like a bad dream. But we have to accept the reality that Chief Ogunjobi is no longer with us. He led very well and supported very well, at different situations. His life was a testimonial of integrity”, Akinwunmi said. Before his death, Ogunjobi tried twice unsuccessfully to get back into the NFF board as president, but on the two occasions he lost to the incumbent Amaju Pinnick, first in Warri in 2014 and later in Katsina last year. Apart from his sterling role as a member of the NFF board, Ogunjobi played a prominent role in the development of Nigeria’s club football. An ebullient and respected football administrator, Ogunjobi captained the first set of Nigerian academicals to defeat the Ghanaian academicals in the early 1970s and was a key member of the then IICC Shooting Stars FC of Ibadan before he travelled to the United States of America for further studies. This was the reason he was not part of the IICC’s Africa Cup Winners Cup –winning squad of 1976. He returned to Nigeria a few years later, and was a member of the young Green Eagles’ squad that Chief Adegboye Onigbinde coached to win the silver medals of the 1984 Africa Cup of Nations in Cote d’Ivoire. From his days as General manager/Chairman of Shooting Stars Sports Club (3SC) under the military administration of late General Abdulkareem Adisa, to his tenure as NFA scribe, the late Ogunjobi was able to prove his worth as an accomplished sports administrator, leader, great motivator and mobiliser, as well as excellent manager of men and materials. Known by his friends as “Skippo,” he was the captain of the former IICC Shooting Stars that dominated the Nigerian football scene in the late 1970s and early 1980s and won two continental championships. The Ibadan-based football club is now known as the 3SC Football Club. He featured as a player for Shooting Stars when the club was called WNDC. He later captained the club to the final of the then Africa Cup of Champions (now CAF Champions League) in 1984. After his playing career, Ogunjobi went into administration and served as a secretary at his former club Shooting Stars. From the secretary, he rose to become the General Manager of the club and then the sole administrator, leading 3SC to win the maiden CAF Cup in 1992 under difficult circumstances. Ogunjobi was the last remaining member of the 3SC central defence that played against Zamalek of Egypt in the CAF Champions Cup final in 1984. His regular partner in Shooting Stars central defence then, Ogbein Fawole died a few years ago. Others that have also died include goalkeepers Best Ogedegbe, Raymond King, Idowu Otubusien to mention but few. 