Lagos – Former Lagos State Police Commissioner, Abubakar Tsav has asked the governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom to justify his recent claims of being a billionaire before he became governor by declaring his assets. In a message sent to Saturday INDEPENDENT on Friday, the retired officer and human rights activist, Tsav insisted that the governor should be prepared to face the anti-graft agency to defend himself soon. “On the front page of The Punch Newspaper of Friday Feb 8, 2019, Gov Samuel Ortom claimed that he was a Billionaire before he became Governor. This is good News, but did he declare this in his Assets declaration form as required by the Code of Conduct Act? I challenge Gov Samuel Ortom to publish the gross statements of Account of his businesses before he became Governor and the current holdings. The EFCC will definitely be interested in seeing this. The governor should not be in a hurry because the EFCC will surely scrutinise all these accounts at the appropriate time when he might have lost his immunity. He needs not be in a hurry to declare his innocence. The Eagles are hovering around,” he said. Tsav also commended the recent deployment of security agencies across the country prior to the general elections. “There is much threats and fear of violence across the country coupled with desperation by candidates to win elections at all costs. There is adequate deployment of Security Agencies in the country to deal with any threats to violence before, during and after the general elections. “The redeployment of State Commissioners of Police across the country is a right step in the right direction. If a Commissioner of Police becomes too familiar with politicians, this tends to affect his efficiency and impartiality and brings his integrity to question. State Governors can easily influence State Commissioners of Police with information funds. However the Riot Act is already read to the Commissioners of Police by the IGP. Any Commissioner of Police who is too greedy, too corrupt and very disloyal who accepts bribes from politicians to allow them rig the forthcoming elections, will have himself to blame. All eyes will be on them for a fair, free and honest election. I think the suspension and ongoing EFCC investigation against former CJN Justice Walter Onneghen will discourage some desperate politicians from playing pranks to rig election results through the judiciary.”