Mallam Garba Attahiru is the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Resident Electoral Commissioner in Kwara State. In this interview with TONY EZIMAKO, he spoke on the readiness of INEC in Kwara state for the forthcoming elections and other issues. Excerpts: How ready is INEC as far as Kwara State is concerned? I can say that we are very ready for the February election. We have trained our State presiding officers, we have trained the security agencies, because without security there will be no election. We have trained them on how to be civil and professional, how to prevent violence and how to curb violence. How to check vote buying and things like that, and how to work with INEC officials to ensure that the election is protected and ensure that the atmosphere is peaceful. We have also trained our corpers on how to use the Smartcard reader so that we don’t have problems on the election day and I can tell you that we are 99% sure that the Smartcard readers are in working condition. You also know that the use of incidence form has been abolished and the voter’s register redesigned . We now have a box ,if the voter’s name is in the voters register but some how his PVC was not read by the card reader, he will be allowed to enter his thumb print in the box and he will allowed to vote. However they will capture the voter so that at the end of the election he collects his PVC. So nobody is going to be disenfranchised so long as your name is in the register. What cooperation are you getting from the security services given the decision of INEC this time to take full charge of deployment of security in line with the Act? The cooperation has been good. We have the Interagency Consultative Committee, comprising the Police, Army, Navy Airforce , the Customs, Immigration, NDLEA, Civil Defence, Road Safety; we have this at the State level, we also have this at the LGA level, where they meet with EOs and coordinate and synergize to ensure that all goes well . Like I said earlier without security, election cannot hold in this country. And they must not compromise, because if INEC do not compromise and the security comprises, there will be problem. So we are working towards the same goal to ensure that we do not compromise and they do not compromise, and election goes on peacefully and our smart card reader works perfectly, I am sure the election will be a success. I want to state here categorically, I am very optimistic 2019 election will be the best election conducted in this country. What about the logistics, distribution of election materials, especially sensitive materials, ensure their safety and integrity so that nobody tampers with then . What have you done in this regard? In the area of non-sensitive materials like the ballot box, cubicle, mats , we have already started distributing to various local government areas. In the case of sensitive materials, they are kept with the Central Bank of Nigeria and only distributed a day or two before the elections, in the presence of all the political parties, security agencies, all stakeholders. They will observe the movement which is also tracked electronically by INEC and security agencies. When they get here they are taken to centres which are also protected by armed men. Then on Saturday morning they are taken to the polling centres ,that way you will not complain of late arrival of materials. Like in Kwara here, places like Kayama and Baruti are very very far , the Air force is ready to collaborate with me to airlift the materials in this helicopter straight from the Central Bank. I won’t have problems with that far distance, this is the arrangement we have put in place . And areas like Pategi and surrounding areas, which are riverine , we have also secure the services if the Navy to do that So every arrangement, is being made to ensure we are protected ,we are secure ,this is national service. It is about INEC and I want to tell you INEC is about integrity of the process. Our integrity has to be intact for us to conduct a credible election. We have barely two weeks to the elections. What concerns so you have ,that you want to quickly point out As far as INEC and Kwara State is concerned , we don’t have any problems, I’m satisfied with all the arrangement we have made in terms of funding we have received funding from the headquarters. We are ready ,very ready and like I promised the people of Kwara State, I am for the people of Kwara , I’m not for anybody. We (INEC) are not a political party, we don’t have candidate, our duty is to protect the electoral process , the sanctity of the elections. My goal and vision for Kwara INEC is to be the best State in the coming election.. I have a very experienced staff. One of the first things I did when I came in July last year was that I found that they were staff that have over stayed in the local government areas. And each time you tried to effect some changes , you get this protests..but I said no, I’m going to step on toes to get the job done.. I have moved people around and have secured the loyalty of my staff. In terms of their welfare, they are happy and so I don’t have any fears they are going to deliver and I will achieve my goal. We don’t have any challenges Finally , what is the state of the collection of the PVCs in Kwara ? Very excellent. When I arrived Kwara, in fact let me start with registration. When I arrived Kwara, registration was quite below one million but by the time we moved in just one month to close of registration, but I tell you that in just one month, I moved the registration to 1,406, 467 and as I’m speaking to you today , PVC collection is 1, 107, 605 . And I’m confident that the outstanding PVC of 296, 852 which I’m optimistic that before February 8 when collection of PVCs close , we will move it below hundred , which is an excellent performance. Again, we are seriously engage in voter education to ensure that people don’t sale their PVC, they don’t allow people buy their PVCs. Secondly , I’m thinking to go Central Mosque (last Friday) to speak to people on these issues and urge then to go and collect their PVCs; on Sunday, I will go the churches to do same. We also doing voter education on TV and radio to ensure, if possible the remaining PVCs are collected. We are also addressing voter apathy. As I speak, I have a scheduled meeting with students in Unilorin, about 4000 to 5000 of them not to engage in electoral violence, not allow politicians use them,, and also talk to their friends ,neighbours that they should not involve themselves in violence, so that at the end of the day the elections will be peaceful.