Elections in Nigeria are always fiercely contested battles because the spoils and perks of office are enormous. Politicians, therefore, do everything to win elections, even if it means perpetuating violence and disrupting the economy. In this piece, BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, IKECHI NZEAKO and ANDREW  UTULU Look at how the forthcoming general elections would impact businesses and the economy. Excerpts: In many countries, especially in the developed Western democracies and in Africa countries, elections are routine processes and are treated as such. This is not the case in Nigeria where elections are treated like a matter of life and death. Elections are treated like a matter of life and death because politics is the biggest business in the country. In other countries, the easiest and surest path to wealth and riches is to start a business, invent a unique product or do something spectacular that brings in a huge amount of money and fame. That is not the case in Nigeria where elected officials and public officials have easy access to the national till and are always helping themselves to it and leaving a majority of the people in poverty and penury. The situation has also contributed to the massive infrastructure deficit in the country. The growing uncertainty over the 2019 general elections appears to be having serious effects on businesses in the country. Whatever happens in the political arena is bound to affect the market positively or negatively. Feelers from the stock market show that investors have lost a  N729 billion to election anxiety in just three months of decline, obviously in response to the rising political intrigues ahead of the elections. The development is contrary to the general expectations of positive earnings in 2018 after the troubled economy apparently emerged from a recession at the end of 2017. Indication is that the decline occurred between February and April, after a January rise triggered strong anticipations amid improving macro-economic indications in domestic and global economies. Analysts, operators and investors alike have linked the decline to “extraneous factors” and “profit taking,” because the subsisting market “fundamentals and upbeat economic data failed to support a much-expected healthy stock price recovery.” As it were, investors and traders who are mostly foreigners are concerned about the political risks associated with the 2019 elections. The fear of the unknown may have forced many of them to prefer to sit on the fence and watch as things unfold. After the January and mid-February rally, surprisingly, the market reportedly recorded unprecedented reversal in performance contrary to predictions. This has been blamed, not incorrectly, on the tension that has plagued the political space in recent times. There are signs that the political situation is worsening as evidenced in the ward congresses of the ruling party held across the country recently, which were marred by conflicts and recriminations leading to cancellations and rescheduling of polls in some states. Besides, the Ekiti and Osun state gubernatorial polls were mired in an atmosphere of tension. Consequently, there is indifference in the economy as foreign investors that play a dominant role have resorted to massive sell-off of shares on the stock market. Indications are that the weak response to earnings is evidence of low liquidity, given; especially the budget has not been assented by the President. Furthermore, it needs to be recognised that insecurity and social disorder are disincentives to investment. Government should rise to the challenge of tackling, with all seriousness, the unfortunate developments in order to restore investors’ confidence. The polity must be calm. Politicians need to be upright and play by the rules by following due process to ensure a peaceful atmosphere ahead of the elections. Besides, as the elections draw nearer, law enforcement officers should be more proactive. They should be able to identify flashpoints and ensure that a robust security arrangement is implemented to prevent the breakdown of law and order. Faced with all the uncertainties, only the most daring of investors could come at this time of uncertainty and fear. Even local investors people are scared of investing. Certainly, Nigeria’s fragile economy cannot absorb any politically motivated upheaval wisdom demands that elections are conducted in a rancour-free atmosphere and manner. The business environment will continue to deteriorate ahead of elections. Business customers, partners, and government agencies will be in a wait-and-see mode up until after the elections, as it becomes clear who will be in power and how Nigerians will react to the outcome. This could have implications for demand, investment plans, and the speed of moving through regulatory processes. A report by Guaranty Trust Bank Plc has predicted that the business environment will remain challenging this year due to uncertainties around the upcoming general election. As a result of this, the report titled, ‘Macroeconomic and Banking Sector Themes 2019,’ said there would be slowdown in economic activities in the first half of the year. The report, which projected that the anticipated election related uncertainties would also weigh on the banking industry, with banks exercising significant restraint and due diligence on all cash transactions. “We expect the regulatory environment to be firm, but supportive and more conciliatory in 2019 – in view of the need to manage investor perceptions to supposedly harsh regulatory decisions and foster confidence in the economy,” the bank said in the nine-page report. With regards to the 2019 budget, the report noted that given the recent fall in crude oil prices, and the noted challenges around the effectiveness of the government revenue machinery, “We are concerned about the downside risks to a higher deficit.” In addition, it pointed out that with the recent commitment to Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) by the Federal Government to implement the new minimum wage structure in 2019, there was a higher chance that government expenditure could rise above the projected level, thus widening the deficit. Furthermore, it noted that the real Gross Domestic Product growth estimate of 3.01 per cent appears aggressive considering the marginal growth recorded in 2018. “The new OPEC deal will see Nigeria cut its production by 3.15 per cent to a cap of 1.685 million barrels per day (bpd), excluding condensates, which puts total allowable production at between 1.885 million barrels per barrel per day and 2.035 barrels per barrel per day after adjusting for estimated condensate production of between 200 kbpd and 350 kbpd. “Overall we see a risk to the budget, which was projected on assumptions of $60 per barrel oil price and 2.3 barrels per barrel per day (including condensates) production level.