Pakistan’s military has promised to respond with “full force” if the country is attacked by India, following a suicide bombing that killed 40 Indian paramilitary policemen in Kashmir. Major General Asif Ghafoor told reporters his message to their neighbour was: “Don’t mess with Pakistan. “We have no intention to initiate war, but we will respond with full force to full spectrum threat,” Mr Ghafoor told reporters in Rawalpindi. India has accused Islamabad’s spy agency ISI of involvement in last week’s attack in the Indian section of the disputed region, which Jaish-e-Mohammed, a Pakistan-based militant group, has said it carried out. Islamabad denies the charge, but Pakistan has for decades faced accusations of supporting such insurgent groups in a bid to destabilise neighbours like India and Afghanistan. It has also accused India of human rights violations in the Indian portion of Kashmir. On Wednesday, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan urged India to share their evidence and promised to fully co-operate in investigating the blast. The attack has enraged India, prompting New Delhi to threaten a variety of economic and sporting sanctions. Earlier on Friday, India threatened to hit its neighbour, whose economy is largely agricultural, where it hurts by cutting off some of its water supply from Indian dams. “Our Govt. has decided to stop our share of water which used to flow to Pakistan. We will divert water from eastern rivers and supply it to our people in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab,” India’s water resources minister, Nitin Gadkari, tweeted. India’s fury has extended to cricket, the sport both countries play and follow to passionate extremes and threatens a world cup match between the two scheduled for June in Manchester. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) plans to ask the sport’s governing body, the International Cricket Council (ICC) to sever ties with any nation from where “terrorism emanates”, Vinod Rai, the board’s chief administrator, said. https://twitter.com/nitin_gadkari/status/1098567044574916608 The demand is set to be discussed when the ICC meets in Dubai next week. Others to have called for stronger action include former India captain Sourav Ganguly, who wants all sporting ties with Pakistan to be cut. India’s Supreme Court has ordered state authorities to make more effort to protect thousands of Kashmiri students, traders and professionals, who have allegedly faced threats, assaults and social boycotts in apparent retaliation for the bombing. It is reported Kashmiri students have had to lock themselves up in several cities and towns to escape mob violence. The nuclear-armed neighbours have fought two wars over Kashmir, which both claim entirely, since independence in 1947.