ADO-EKITI – A former speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Femi Bamisile, has urged governors and sitting senators, who lost out in the National Assembly elections to draw lessons from their defeats. Bamisile, a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the July 14 2018 election in Ekiti State, said that the defeats of perceived political heavyweights showed that the people cannot be taken for granted. Speaking with journalists on his victory in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday, Bamisile said he would make up for the alleged incompetence of the present occupant of the seat by ensuring that he attracted federal projects to the constituency. “So, the lesson of the fall of heavyweight politicians in the just concluded National Assembly elections was that, people can’t be taken for granted, because the election day is always a day of reckoning,” he said. Bamisile stated that he won the election to represent Ekiti East/Gbonyin/Emure federal constituency of the state owing to his connection to the grassroots, saying: “Any politician who takes people for granted will be dealt with on the day of election”. Former Governors Godswill Akpabio and Abiola Ajimobi were among influential politicians that lost senatorial seats in Akwa Ibom and Oyo states respectively. He stated that aside his connection with the people, that Governor Kayode Fayemi won the July 14, 2018 governorship election, also swayed votes for the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Assembly candidates in the state. Bamisile, candidate of the APC defeated the incumbent federal legislator and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Akin Awodumila. He said people decided to vote against them because they didn’t feel the dividends of democracy in the last four years. The former Speaker added that he would partner with the state government to bring radical improve to Ekiti in the areas of infrastructure, youth and women empowerment and educational advancements of the youths. “Added to that was the fact that I have not occupied any political position since 2011 when I left the State House of Assembly, so I used this interregnum to fraternise with my people. I used the period to integrate myself into the system better and the reward was what I got, because I won the three local governments in that federal constituency. Bamisile promised to use his contact as a federal legislator to call the attention of the federal government to the reconstruction of Ado-Ijan-Ikare road and Omuo-Isinbode –Ode –Agbado road, which he stated were federal roads.