Lagos – Former President, Goodluck Jonathan is expected to testify in court in a libel case involving Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity of Afenifere and Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC). Odumakin is instituting legal action against Sagay for allegedly publishing a libelous story against him. Odumakin, through his lawyer, H.B. Williams of Chapitre LLP is also demanding N5bn in damages from Sagay for the alleged injury caused him by the publication titled: “Odumakin, Jackal At Large” published in the February 11, 2019 edition of a national daily. In the article, Sagay had alleged that Odumakin who betrayed President Muhammadu Buhari after the 2011 presidential election, which was won by former Goodluck Jonathan, received money from Jonathan’s campaign team to set up “a fake Radio Station in Ibadan in 2015”. According to Daily Independent findings, Jonathan has agreed to testify in court whether he gave Odumakin money to set up the private radio station known as Petals 102.3 FM. The letter by Odumakin’s lawyer reads: “We write on behalf of Mr. Yinka Odumakin herein referred to as “Our Client”. “We have been briefed by our Client regarding the several issues that have transpired between you, Prof. Itse Sagay and our client in relation to political disagreements which has led to your unfounded published statement, defamation and harassment of our client in The Nation Newspaper on 11th February, 2019. Our client considers the whole of the publication false, injurious and libelous. “Note further that people understood your malicious publication to mean: Our client is dishonest, and a cheat who has been involved in bribery and corruption. “Our client is a social misfit, unscrupulous, and unqualified for the position he currently qualifies”. “Our client is a fraud and a political deviant known in the political sphere of Nigeria. Our client contrives to breach public trusts.” Aside payment of N5bn damages, Odumakin’s lawyers asked Sagay to publish a retraction and apology in two national dailies. However, Sagay in his response to Odumakin’s lawyers simply said “See you in court”.