At LASACO Insurance Plc, it was gathered that true to an extent, the ratio of claims under the third party motor insurance was not as high as comprehensive insurance, as most Nigerians believed that third party was just for them to move their vehicles from one place to another without disturbances from the Police officers on the road. A source close to LASACO speaking under anonymity, said sometimes defaulters that are insured settle themselves when there are eventualities involving the third party property damage. The source said that “paying third party claim is a problem too because there has to be a confirmation of who is at fault. If you have up to 50 vehicles on third-party policy, people that come for the claim may not be more than two. “The law concerns itself with bodily injury and death; an add-on by the insurance company – Motor Ordinance Act of 1945. But, beyond bodily injury and death, there is also a third party property damage, which is not limited to the motor vehicle, but limited to any property that belongs to the third party (fence, wall, shop and so on) that the third party insured vehicle caused.” The source added that most times many unsuspecting Nigerian vehicle owners purchase fake third party insurance policy as they pay the same amount of money to procure the falsified insurance certificate as an original. He attributed the proliferation of fake license to racketeers as promoters of fake third party policy. However, he was quick to point out that menace had reduced in recent time because the Nigeria Insurance Association (NIA) created a portal – ‘www.asknia.org’ to check the validity of all motor insurance policies. Furthermore, the source disclosed that many people are ignorant of third-party insurance coverage on the vehicle they are driving, especially if the owner was not the person on the wheel at the time of the accident. Thus, prompting the user of the vehicle to immediately offer to fix the other car or property damaged by him personally. He also pointed out that some motorists had the wrong impression that their insurance claim would take a longer time to process, but noted that ‘at LASACO as long as you had done the right thing, it would take only one week for such claims to be processed’. “Every claim is treated on its own merit. We do not look out for fraud. We take pictures of the accident and we have LASACO Blue Response (our brand colour); carried out by a group of young mechanical engineers in our employ. “The idea is to obtain an on-the-spot assessment at the scene of an accident and do a report summing the amount of damage and the moment the owner of the insured vehicle guarantees it, in two days you get the alert in your bank account to this effect. That is, the moment the owner agrees we pay almost immediately to the third party,” the source said. Expatiating on the working of the LASACO Blue Response, he said: “When you have an accident, the first thing is to notify us through an email, a call and any other means. We sympathise with you and the Blue Response team take off immediately to the scene of the accident; this is one of the solutions we have put in place to ease the claim process.” When our correspondent contacted Mr. Abdulrazak Salami, the spokesman of National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), the regulatory body of the industry, he reiterated that third-party motor insurance had attendant benefits, but observed that most people do not take advantage of it due to ignorance. He kicked against the call for the scrapping of the policy in some quarters but warned against procurement of fake policy from unregistered agents. He advised motorists to follow the right process of going to the insurance companies or through the intermediaries to procure insurance documents. “There is a process and you must follow that process to get the right policy, otherwise there may be delays and complications when issues of claims come up,” he said. Salami informed that the agency had been creating awareness on the need and benefits of third-party motor insurance and would continue to do so, adding that there were interventions from NAICOM when there are disagreements in settlement of claims between the insurer and the insured. He said: “The policy is to protect the third-party victim and it is good and beneficial, just that people do not take advantage of it because of ignorance and the fact that it is damage I can fix, but it goes beyond that. “The challenge is that in most cases people go to purchase fake policies, they don’t go to the insurance companies. There is a process; go to the company or you go through the intermediary. If you go to the licensing office when you have an issue who do you go to; is it the licensing agent that will settle you? “If you didn’t take up a policy from the insurance company and when there is an issue you want to go to the company? The insurance company will want to verify and this can cause delay. Also, there are issues of fraudulent claims as people want to claim what does not belong to them, the insurance company will ask questions and investigate properly. “Where we (NAICOM) come in is when the company has identified and accepted liability and there are still delays. Also when the insurance company has investigated and refuses to pay, the insured can come to us. Then we come in and adjudicate. NAICOM has a department dedicated to complaints when you have issues go there.” Salami, however, said that creating awareness on the benefits of the third-party motor insurance policy and its effectiveness remains important, which he said NAICOM had been doing. He insisted such a campaign was an ongoing exercise and assured that the commission would continue to sensitise the public on this.