The question still remains, how can Nigeria sustain the tempo of progress that is already been recorded in the bid to institute ease of doing business in the country? Ohuabunwa seems to have provided the the answer when he said: “Many may still argue that the access is not yet universal and that the scores may just be the assessment or perception of the privileged who actually participated in the surveys. Yes, that may be right, but we must bear in mind that it is the same “privileged class” whose assessment put us in the 32nd position in 2017 that have revised their assessment making us jump to the 6th position in 2018. That shows that things have changed in these areas and if we continue to push those changes to endure, then the impact will percolate down. But that really is the challenge. Are these changes now permanent? Are they now engrained in our bureaucratic culture or shall we return to our old ways when the focus is relaxed or when new bureaucrats come on stage as happened with the war against indiscipline. Sustainability is a major challenge for desirable change in our economy. And we must find ways to assure this. In the same vein on the need to sustain Nigeria’s progress in ease of doing business, there is an expedient need to sustain the tempo, and even improve on its present rating. Against the foregoing background, the governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwumi Ambode had pledged to partner on investment opportunities even as Mr. Babatunde Paul Ruwase urged the Federal Government to empower the private sector for job creation, and improve ease of doing business in the country. Speaking at the Lagos State Day at the 2018 Trade Fair, Ruwase said the drop in the rating of ease of doing business in Nigeria showed that government needs to pay more attention to the area. He also suggested that business friendly loans are critical to improving the ease of doing business policy. He stated that globalisation has forced the need to connect businesses, which is what the trade fairs provide. Ambode, represented by the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Idiat Adebule, urged the private sector to partner the state government to positively explore the abundant business and investment opportunities in the state. Ambode said the state is investor- friendly and with the right partnership, the state government is committed to doing more. The Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Mrs. Olayinka Oladunjoye, said the state government understands that small and medium enterprises are key to growing the economy and the success of the state; hence the government pays special attention to small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). On alleged drop in ease of doing business in Nigeria, she said for the state government, things can only get better, but would go back to the drawing board to strategise and see how to improve it in Lagos as the economic hub of Nigeria. Oladunjoye said the government was committed to supporting the trade fair, because it provides huge opportunities for businesses, which would impact its Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Ostensibly commenting from the backdrop of the economic recession which has been reported to be easing off, the World Bank has for the umpteenth time revealed that Nigeria faces the prospect of fragile economic recovery given the high degree of fragility and risks from future shocks to the oil price or further unrest in the Niger Delta region. This, no doubt has been coming as a caveat that, the country could build on the oil-driven economic recovery by strengthening its macroeconomic policy framework and implementing the structural reforms needed to diversify the economy and break out of a boom and bust cycle. Despite the hope placed on oil prospect, statistics have shown that even though the oil sector represented only 8.4 per cent of GDP going by findings in 2016, lower foreign exchange earnings from oil exports had spillover effects on non-oil sectors -industry and services -dependent on imports of inputs and raw materials, and overall real GDP contracted by 1.5 per cent. It is further believed that with the launched Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) for 2017–2020 which contains critical reforms aimed at diversifying the economy, it will set the nation on a path toward sustained and inclusive growth over the medium- to long-term. There have been continuous debates on the ease of doing business in Nigeria considering the volatility of some areas and other economic conditions in the country. The government has claim to be committed to fostering  the ease of doing business in the country through some  reforms which, according to Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Okechukwu Enelamah, have already been completed. This would ensure that Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) build capacity to deliver the ease of doing business, with effective collaboration that would support continuous improvement. The Minister actually confessed to the fact that Nigeria is a challenging environment to do business, but insisted that   the country is a must-invest place that cannot be ignored. He admitted that though Nigeria does not score high in the rating for ease of doing business, the size of the Nigeria in terms of population makes the statistics something that cannot be ignored. Meanwhile Nigeria ranks 146 among 190 economies on the ease of doing business index, according to the World Bank 2018 ranking. The latest ranking represents an improvement from 170 in 2015. World Bank analyzed that the rank of Nigeria deteriorated to 146 in 2018 from 145 in 2017, adding that Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria averaged 145.09 from 2008 until 2018, reaching an all-time high of 170 in 2014 and a record low of 120 in 2008. Over the years the country’s ranking had not been enviable. The World Free Zones Convention held in Doha, Qatar, provided a platform to focus on country attractiveness to investment capital based on the Ease of Doing Business index. The World Free Zones Convention was fully represented by countries from all regions of the world. Nigeria, Mexico, India, USA, Tanzania, China, Thailand, Ghana, Uganda, United Arab Emirates and Australia while being chaired by Graham Mather, Chairman and President, European Policy Forum, London and Brussels. On his return from Doha, the Managing Director of Nigeria’s Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority (OGFZA), Umana Okon Umana, explained that the case had to be made for the country that Nigeria is doing everything possible to get up to speed with the rest of the world with regard to starting a business and operating within the Nigeria business environment. The facts bear up his position.   Nigeria is currently pushing reforms to improve on her ranking in terms of the Ease of Dong Business. It has embarked on core infrastructure projects—roads, airports, railways—to spur up growth, aided by resurgent consumer confidence, and are seriously fighting corruption. Apparently in a bid to stem the challenge of doing business in Nigeria, acting President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, signed three Executive Orders which are all aimed at improving private and government’s business operations in the country. The government seems to maintain its doggedness in ensuring that laws are made to the effect of providing an enabling ground for local businesses to thrive and compete globally. Nigeria has all the basic requirements to grow her economy and create millions of jobs if the business environment is made friendly, especially to encourage local producers and local products. This calls to mind the Made-In-Nigeria project championed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government. However, according to economists and watchers of the economy alike, to make this happen, the country needs a visionary, exemplary leadership that has the priority list and patriotic citizenry and the Buhari-led administration is not wavering in its promise to make for an enabling business environment for Nigerians. The optimism about doing business in Nigeria has to do with perceived safety of certain regions in the country. Despite the situation in the region, the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Mr. Nsima Ekere, declared that the current focus of the Federal Government on the Niger Delta region has made it an investment destination with opportunities in oil and gas, agriculture, information communication technology, as well as power generation and distribution.