LAGOS – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday morning officially declared President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the 2019 presidential election. He defeated Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with over three million votes. Professor Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC chairman, said that the duty of the commission is to conclude and collate the presidential result for final declaration. According to the INEC chairman Buhari scored 15,191,847 votes, while Atiku scored 11,262,978, while the total valid votes amounted to 27,324,583. As Buhari’s camp continues to celebrate, it is appropriate to look at his first term and how he performed and proffer suggestions for him during his second term. Already, Nigerians do not seem excited of the victory as they were in 2015, when he and his party defeated then President Goodluck Jonathan of PDP. In 2015, Buhari hinged his campaign on three key areas of the war against corruption, war against insurgence and revitalisation of the economy. On the war against insurgency, although the administration recovered the areas that were in total control of Boko Haram, observers maintain that sect has continued to kill and abduct Nigerians in the North East, including soldiers. Although the government retrieved the Chibok and Dapchi school girls and several other people abducted by the sect at high costs, they noted that Leah Sharibu and many others people are still with the sect till date. Still on insecurity, they maintain that the Fulani herdsmen killed thousands of citizens across the country, especially in the Middle Belt under BUhari’s watch. Although the herdsmen activities seem to have reduced, there are still some killings, especially in interior areas of Benue, Kogi and Kaduna, even as people are still being killed in pockets of crises in Plateau. Kidnappers and other armed bandits have also continued to kill, maim and kidnap people. Critics maintain that under Buhari, state of insecurity got to the extent that the United Nations (UN) identified Nigeria as a terror belt, even as it classified both Boko Haram and the Fulani herdsmen as most dangerous terror groups in the world. All these happened during the administration’s three and half years of existence so far. In the area of the war against corruption which was a key programme of the administration, the government claimed to have recovered a lot of stolen loot. But, the utilisation of the funds has remained a mystery among Nigerians. This is as a cross section of Nigerians believes that the anti-corruption crusade has been one-sided and targeted against the opposition. Nigerians also complain of media trial of the arrested suspects, which a lot of the cases have remained inconclusive. Besides, under the Buhari administration, the economy, which is another key focus of the government, has remained poor. Although the administration managed to pull the nation out of reception, the nation’s currency has been at its lowest level against the dollar. This is as Nigeria has been identified as the world’s poverty capital, even as the rate of unemployment has been at tree top level. Speaking on Buhari’s election victory and Nigerians expectations, Chief Martin Onovo, the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and chieftain of the Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC), believes that the whole thing is a sham. According to him, what INEC announced were fictitious figures, lamenting that Nigerians have been short-changed, and their sovereignty usurped. Onovo maintained that there was a collation fraud and that Atiku Abubakar, the PDP candidate, was denied victory though the collaboration of the government, the ruling APC and INEC. He alleged that there was lack of authentication of results and that the results did not make sense. He lamented: “What was the purpose of the card reader if it was not used. It was a sham.” Onovo said that Nigerians should expect the worse from the Buhari administration in the next four years, saying his election victory is the greatest tragedy. He said the administration destroyed everything, including the country’s unity, security and the economy, and that there is nothing more to destroy, even as he described the administration as the nation’s most corrupt regime. He stressed: “He did not perform. There is nothing he can do. This is the most corrupt regime. His re-election is a sham.” Chief Ochi Emmanuel Ode, Chairman, Middle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC), stated that in Nigeria, when an election result has been announced and someone announced as winner, the there is little whoever is declared loser can do about it. He maintained that Buhari did not perform in all his key areas of his focus in his first term. He said: “The truth is that he did not do well. Boko Haram and the herdsmen and other security challenges continued unabated, and became worse than he met them. The economy became worse than he met it. The corruption fight has been selective. Nigerians want real corruption fight and not a selective war as we have it now. Ode maintained that Buhari should continue the anti-corruption fight, stressing that it should no longer be selective, adding, “Several people around him now have corruption cases. He should continue with their investigations and tenure that they are prosecuted. He should forget the fact that some of them sponsored his elections with funds they looted. “On his new cabinet, he should not waste time as he did in 2015, but should hit the ground running. His inaction in the past was wrong. He should look for technocrats from different parts of the country to form his cabinet, instead of what happened in 2015 when he put square pegs in round holes. He should look for experts, whether they are Igbo, Yoruba, Urhobo and should not rely solely on people from one part of the country.” Comrade Francis ‘Niyi Ogunremi, Chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC) and Chairman, Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) in Lagos State, while proffering an agenda for Buhari in his second term, said: “He needs to take the restructuring of the economy seriously. He needs to take the issue of security seriously. We need a stable economy. He should address the issues of herdsmen and the Boko Haram. “He should make his appointments from every part of the country. No ethnic group should be neglected. He should address the issue of power. Buhari should run an all-inclusive administration in this his second term. The South South and South East did not vote for him because he is seen as nepotic. He should beware of the cabals around him.” Comrade Charles Anike, the National President of Eastern Union, wondered what magis Buhari will do in his second term, when according tpo him, he lacked the capacity to govern. He said: “The APC administration under President Buhari in the last three and half years failed woefully. There is no record of any meaningful achievements from North to South and from East to West. The administration has steadily dismantled the little achievements of previous democratic administrations. “All the acclaimed achievements, especially in the area of security, is nothing more than executive lies and mere propaganda. Per capita income of Nigerians has drastically reduced to zero. Buhari administration has so far failed to address the age-long problems of the citizenry, for which it was voted.” He, therefore, said that Nigerians should not expect Buhari to better in his second term than he has been in his first.