Abuja – The Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Mahmood Yakubu, has finally announced the postponement of the Presidential and National Assembly elections to 23rd February. Governorship and House of Assembly elections will take place 9th March respectively. The Commission will meet with the political parties today, Saturday by 2pm at International Conference Centre, in Abuja. Many Nigerians have been kept in suspense whether the election will be postponed or not following an emergency meeting between the INEC and stakeholders in Abuja. Live update: Press briefing by the Hon. Chairman INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu on #NigeriaDecides2019⁠ ⁠ elections https://t.co/S9ZTPbrBuK — INEC Nigeria (@inecnigeria) February 16, 2019  According to a release by INEC, “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) met on Friday, 15th February 2019 and reviewed its preparations for the 2019 General Elections scheduled for Saturday, 16th February 2019 and Saturday, 2nd March 2019. “Following a careful review of the implementation of its logistics and operational plan and the determination to conduct free, fair and credible elections, the Commission came to the conclusion that proceeding with the elections as scheduled is no longer feasible. “Consequently, the Commission has decided to reschedule the Presidential and National Assembly Elections to Saturday, 23rd February 2019. “Furthermore, the Governorship, State House of Assembly and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Area Council Elections is rescheduled to Saturday 9th March 2019. “This will afford the Commission the opportunity to address identified challenges in order to maintain the quality of our elections. “This was a difficult decision for the Commission to take, but necessary for the successful delivery of the elections and the consolidation of our democracy. “The Commission will meet key stakeholders to update them on this development at 2pm. on Saturday, 16th February 2019 at the Abuja International Conference Centre.”