Lagos – In 2016, nobody could have doubted Flying Eagles’ ability to finish the job they started half way in Sudan against the host country for a place in the 2017 CAF U-20 Cup of Nations taking place in Zambia. In the last qualifiers for the continental junior championship which will eventually serve as the qualifiers for that year’s FIFA U-20 World Cup in South Korea, Nigeria defeated Sudan 2-1 before their home fans at Khartoum National Stadium. With the result, the players believed that it was done and dusted for them, particularly as the second leg was to be played in Nigeria where vociferous fans would expectedly cheer them to a resounding victory and eventual qualification for Zambia 2017. But Sudan pulled off one of the greatest upsets in the continent by stunning Nigeria 4-3, thus qualifying for the U20 Cup of Nation at the expense of Nigeria on away goal rule after the final score over the two legs stood at 5-5. The aggregate win closed the door for Nigeria in the 2017 U20 World Cup in South Korea. Incidentally, Nigerians expected a smooth ride to the continental fiesta because Amuneke, who won the FIFA U17 World Cup two years earlier, integrated 15 members of the squad into the Flying Eagles with Victor Osimhen, the top scorer in the cadet World Cup in Chile in 2015, headlining the stars that were expected to seamlessly qualify Nigeria for the CAF event. Also, such notable names in that squad include Samuel Chukwueze and Orji Okonkwo. But the shock exit put paid to the expectation of participating at the World Cup. With 11 FIFA World Cup appearances, it was a bitter truth to swallow that Nigeria would be missing in the 2017 U20 World Cup. There is no arguing the fact that the Flying Eagles had enjoyed a measure of success, particularly in the continent, and even globally, though with the ultimate prize yet to grace their trophy cabinet at that stage. The Africa U20 Cup of Nations, then called African Youth Championship, started in 1979 but it was not until 1983 that Nigeria qualified for the event. Nigeria won the event that year and repeated the feat in the next three editions covering the period, 1985, 1987 and 1989. Then, the final was on home and away basis. After that, Nigeria went into oblivion, with countries such as Egypt, Ghana, Cameroon, Morocco and Angola winning the competition. But the Flying Eagles won the 2005 edition in Benin Republic and followed that up with another triumph in the 2011 edition hosted by South Africa, before their last victory in 2015 in Senegal. Just like the Africa U20 Cup of Nations, the U20 FIFA World Cup started in 1979 but Nigeria qualified for the first time in 1983 where the country was eliminated at the group stage. Two years later in 1985, Nigeria stunned bookmakers by finishing second behind the hosts, Soviet Union, in Group C that also had Australia and Canada. They beat Mexico 2-1 in the quarter final but lost 0-2 to Brazil before a 1-3 loss to the hosts in the losers’ final finally ended their run. In 1987, Nigeria failed to progress beyond the group stage but returned stronger in the 1989 edition in Saudi Arabia, making it to the final where they lost to Portugal 2-0. Pooled in the same Group A with Portugal, Czechoslovakia and Saudi Arabia, Nigeria finished second behind Portugal. The country marched on to the final, dusting such countries as Soviet Union and the United States of America in the knockout rounds. The highpoint of that exploit in 1989 was what is today known as the Daman Miracle in the quarter final, where Nigeria endured a 0-4 score line until 29 minutes to end the match. With time ticking, the Flying Eagles produced a huge comeback to level the score 4-4, with Christopher Ohehen in 61st and 75th minutes, Samuel Elijah in the 83rd minutes and Nduka Ugbade in the 84th minute getting the goals. In the ensuing penalty kicks, Ohehen, Peter Ogaba, Mike Onyemachara, Mutiu Adepoju and Elijah all scored to edge the Soviet Union 5-4 on penalties. In the semifinal, Mutiu Adepoju grabbed all the goals as Nigeria defeated United States 2-1 after full and extra time. But the country was not that lucky in the final as the Luis Figo-inspired Portugal defeated them 2-0. Meanwhile, after a quarter final finish in 2007, Nigeria made it again to the final in the 2005 edition in Holland. In the squad that had such notable names as Taye Tiawo, John Mikel Obi, Isaac Promise, Onyekachi Apam, Sani Keita, Ambose Vanzekin, among other, they brushed all-comers to make it to the final where two well-taking penalty kicks from Lionel Messi meant that Nigeria would have to wait longer for the coveted trophy. Meanwhile, since that 2005 edition, Nigeria have gotten to quarter final twice, second round once and round of 16 once. Given that Nigeria hold the record or being the African country with highest participation, coupled with the country’s rich history at the FIFA U17 World Cup, observers believe that it was high-time the country went a step further to win the trophy. Comparatively, after the global championship berthed in 1979, Ghana did not qualify until 1993 when the competition was hosted by Australia. Incidentally, the Black Satellites went as far as the final in their debut, where they lost to Brazil. They followed that up with a semifinal finish in 1997 and achieved another final in 2001 in Argentina. Having not qualified in the next three editions, Ghana returned to the scene when Egypt hosted it in 2009 and brushed aside all others to win Africa’s first and only U20 world title till date, revenging against Brazil 4-3 on penalties. With only seven participations since the event debuted in 1979 with one triumph, two runners up medals, one semifinal finish and one quarter final placing, compare to Nigeria’s eleven-time participations with two runners up medals and two quarter final finishes, it is obvious that Ghana have outperform Nigeria, even with Nigeria’s rich form in the U17 level, where the Golden Eaglets have won five world titles. So observers believe that this should challenge the authorities this time. At this level, Nigerians believe that qualifying for the World Cup in Poland, as the Flying Eagles though failed to qualify for final of the ongoing CAF U20 Cup of Nations, is one thing and performing well is entirely a different kettle of fish. According to pundits on the popular pay television station, who analysed Nigeria’s performance so far at the ongoing championship in Niger Republic, Nigeria might have done well by navigating through the group stage to the semifinal, topping their group that also had South Africa, Burundi and Niger, but their performance still fall short of podium standard heading to the World Cup, particularly in the semifinal against Mali where they failed to cash-in on their possession to break the young Eagles. To the analysts, much work still needed to be done if the seven-time African champions would seriously challenge for the elusive title in Poland. Mutiu Adepoju, one of the stars of Daman Miracle, blamed Nigeria’s inability to win the U20 FIFA World Cup on poor integration from the U17 to U20. “My opinion is that there has not been proper transition from U17 to U20. If you look, even if we perform well in U17, the next U20, we use almost entirely different set of players and that means that the success of the U17 will be lacking in U20,” he said. Talking of integration, some stakeholders have blamed the insincerity of U17 coaches for Nigeria’s inability to break the duck. For instance, coaches in this part of the world have been accused of placing emphasis on winning the cadet trophy, hence taking players far more than the required age bracket for U17 championships. By the time they should have been competing in the U20 level, they have lost form, warranting the U20 coaches to overlook them. To what extent this is true remains a huge debate but looking at the fact that Europeans have dominated global football yet cannot boast of much successes at the cadet level begs for questions on where Nigerian and indeed African priorities lie when it comes to age grade competitions – to develop future talents or to win trophies using players of questionable ages. Apart from that, Flying Eagles must show commitment to breaking the jinx of winning the cup this time. Coach Paul Aigbogun has a huge task on his hand to infuse a winning mentality in the players. Some of the losses by the cade team had been blamed on the players’ lackadaisical attitude to the games. For instance, when Nigeria lost the 2009 FIFA U17 World Cup final to Switzerland in Lagos, Stanley Okoro and his strike partner, Sani Emmanuel, received knocks from Nigerians for their selfish plays, leading to Switzerland beating Nigeria at Teslim Balogun Stadium for their only title at that level. With a mentality of ‘we have done enough’, Nigerian players, particularly at that level, have severally lost matches that could have been won. As a long-term planning, the coaches must always upgrade themselves ahead of championships. This may not be very feasible now for Aigbogun with the World Cup three months away, but it is something that must be done. This is because in most matches, games are won from the bench. Nigerian coaches still lack the knowledge to decisively read matches with a view to making match-winning changes as we regularly see in Europe. 