Principal officers of a leading private university in Nigeria have acknowledged and pointed out the exceptional corporate social responsibility inclination of Nigeria’s forward looking and youth centric telecoms firm, Globacom. The telco in partnership with technology firm, Huawei, is currently rewarding the brightest students in tertiary institutions across the country with free smartphones and data. In the programme, the best five final year students in thirty tertiary institutions across the country would receive free smartphones loaded with six months data. Each of the 30 selected tertiary institutions will also receive five Glo routers loaded with data that can be used for two years free-of-charge for academic research. The project took off on Monday at the Babcock University, Ilishan, Ogun State. Speaking at the first presentation in the University premises, the Registrar of the University, Dr. Jonathan Nwosu said, “Glo is Babcock, Babcock is Glo,” expressing profound gratitude to Globacom for stepping out to reward hard work. “We have always had faith in Globacom as we were part of the first set of Postpaid lines and CUG users. Our students will continue to cherish this recognition of excellence. Thank you Globacom. Thank you Huawei”, Prof Okoro enthused. Those who received the rewards for excellence were the five topmost final year students of the Institution: Dogo Edafe Bawa of Business Education, Olusoji Ifejesu Precious of Accounting Department, Ojutiku Toluwanimi Oluwaseun of Economics, Ajulibe Goziem Benjamin of Medical Laboratory Science and Anifowose Airat Morolake of Computer Science department. Nineteen-year-old Ojutiku Toluwanimi expressed deep gratitude for the gesture, saying that her whole family are happy Glo subscribers. Another beneficiary, Mrs. Dogo Edafe Bawa, commended the telecom company for the free smartphone and data saying Globacom’s gesture was better than “promoting frivolities”. Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics, Professor Iheayichukwu Okoro, led other members of the University to receive the data-loaded routers for the school. The Deputy Human Resources Director, Huawei, Mrs Dorothy Johnson, declared that Huawei was delighted to partner Globacom noting that, being an indigenous company, the operator would not repatriate its profits. She disclosed that Huawei was focused on innovations and birthing 5G which was already operational in China, adding that Corporate Social Responsibility was a key policy thrust for the company. Speaking on behalf of Globacom, Regional Manager, Retail Sales, Lagos/Ogun, Mr. Olufolahan Faseyitan stated that the availability of Glo 4G in all tertiary institutions in the country validates the claim that Globacom has the widest and most reliable 4G LTE coverage in Nigeria. He went on to encourage members of the University community to use the opportunity of the company’s on-going week-long data clinic to upgrade to Glo 4G to experience, first hand, the quality of the data network.