Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) have raised the alarm over an alleged plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and certain agents in the presidency to frame-up PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar; Senate President Bukola Saraki, and Kogi West senator, Dino Melaye, for gun-running and violence. The PDP and CUPP said the plot by the ruling party would be to load ammunition into vehicles painted in PDP colours with pictures of Atiku, Saraki, and Melaye. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the party had received intelligence report that the collaborators would sponsor perpetrators of violence in public places that would be attributed to the PDP and its candidates. He said, “Intelligence at our disposal shows that the APC has contracted some criminal elements to use the vehicles to cause mayhem and pandemonium by firing into gatherings in various parts of the country, after which the ruling party and the agents of Buhari presidency will blame the attacks on our party and candidates.” The party described the plot as an extreme act of desperation by the APC in their despondency, after being rejected by the people. “We want all Nigerians to note that the PDP is a party of goodwill and our rallies have demonstrated that we are a people of peace. “Our objectives and goals, as laid down by our founding fathers, demonstrate unity, national cohesion, and economic prosperity for our nation. “This is the path we have continued to toe in our campaigns, in spite of provocations by the APC and the Buhari presidency,” the party said. The PDP asked Nigerians to take note of the plot by the APC, which, it said, was tailored to smear the image of “our party and candidates, as well as divert public attention from their acts and threats of violence ahead of the 2019 general election”. Meanwhile, CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, has given details of how the plot would be executed by the ruling party. The CUPP said, “Elements of the ruling party have commenced the branding of some vehicles with the colours of the opposition, bearing the photos of these opposition leaders, and have acquired arms which will be hidden in the vehicles and the vehicles will be driven to join the campaign convoy of the opposition consensus candidate in Kwara, Kogi, Adamawa, and other parts of the country where they have also selected. The vehicles will eventually be searched by the police and the arms identified. “Their plot will include mobilising thugs and causing violence on the day of such identification so as to tag the opposition as violent. “The APC are aware Nigerians now know them for their violence which has trailed their campaigns nationwide. “Their internal crisis and grab power by all means attitude has catalyzed their rejection by Nigerians and they desire to break all the laws to cast the opposition in bad light. “On poll day, part of their plot include also to use more of these branded vehicles loaded with thugs to disrupt voting and collation in some centres and blame the opposition for violence and disruption of the process which will lead to mass arrest of opposition leaders to give the ruling party an advantage to rig and deny the people the opportunity to give their preferred candidates their mandate.” CUPP Drags IGP, Others To Court Over CPs Posting In another development, CUPP has dragged the Inspector General of Police and others to court over the recent posting of Commissioners of Police. Describing it as compromised posting, the CUPP called on its members not to recognise the postings. The position of the CUPP was contained in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere. Describing the posted Commissioners of Police as pro All Progressives Congress (APC) police officers, especially Mr. Kayode Egbetokun, who was Bola Tinubu’s former Chief Security Officer (CSO), CUPP said that apart from the suit, it is also mobilising to pass a vote of no confidence on the acting IGP if the postings, especially the appointment of Egbetokun as Kwara CP, are not reversed and neutral officers deployed across all board. Rejecting the postings, CUPP said, “The Inspector General of Police has disappointed a nation eager to go out peacefully on 16th February to exercise their franchise. Clearly, anarchy looms in the land and the plot to rig the elections is now in full gear. The Inspector General of Police should be placed on visa ban immediately for aggravating the situation that degenerated into bedlam. “Opposition members and Nigerians are left with only one option of resorting to self-help in protection of their votes and Code 20 Mode will be scaled up to red level if the police refuse to remove APC chieftains’ aides as Commissioners of Police. “The opposition is seriously now considering pulling out of the Bill Clinton Peace Accord as it is tantamount to the ruling party leading opposition leaders and Nigerians to Golgotha, which will not achieve any objective since the ruling party has concluded plans to intimidate, harass, assault and maim Nigerians knowing that Nigerians have resolved to vote them out of office. Anarchy looms in the land and the Inspector General of Police is the cause and should be held responsible.”