Yenagoa – Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has said that violators of electoral laws and ballot box snatchers in the state are leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Dickson, in apparent response to the presidency that President Muhammadu Buhari’s shoot-on-sight directive to security personnel at Saturday’s rescheduled elections was targeted at the opposition PDP, insisted that APC leaders in Bayelsa were those creating insecurity and truncating the peace of the state. He spoke on Wednesday during a meeting with stakeholders and candidates of the PDP in Bayelsa East and Central Senatorial Districts at Government House, Yenagoa. A statement by Fidelis Soriwei, the Governor’s Special Adviser on Media Relations, quoted him as expressing optimism that the PDP would secure not less than 90 percent of the total votes cast in the state in the rescheduled presidential and National Assembly elections on Saturday. Dickson said, “The people who are ballot box snatchers are the APC leaders in this state. They are the people who are working to undermine the peace and security of our state. “Those of them in Abuja know that with me and the majority of the good people in this state working with me, and with what we are doing, this state will vote more than 90 percent for the PDP.” He stated that the groundswell of support the people demonstrated for the PDP during its recent community-to-community campaigns had further confirmed the predominant position the party occupies in Bayelsa polity. According to him, the postponement of the elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was just shifting the doomsday for the APC in the state and the country at large. He thanked the stakeholders and people of the central senatorial districts for their abiding faith in the PDP as well as maintaining what he described as an enviable sense of unity and singleness of purpose. Describing the districts as the key to electoral victory in the state, the governor, however, enjoined them to work harder to enable the party win better than it did in 2015. He restated the need for Ijaw people, wherever they are in the country, to vote massively for former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate, for the greater good for the Ijaw nation. Dickson said, “It is unfortunate that the elections were postponed. But we know that it is only a postponement of the doomsday for the APC. This state is PDP, and the entire Ijawland will vote the PDP in spite of all the threats and what some people are doing. “We have demonstrated that before in 2015, and we will do it again and again. So, don’t be intimidated by the careless statements some people are making. “My charge is that in every of your communities, we want to hear that you delivered ninety something percent for all candidates, including our presidential candidate. “Sometimes a number of people do not show any serious interest, especially at the grassroots level for presidential election. But, let me remind you that this presidential election is not just like any other one because it involves some fundamental interests concerning the Ijaw nation.” Officials of the state chapter of the PDP reported at the meeting that the party’s campaign train was well received in all communities by their chiefs and people who vowed to vote out the APC. They expressed gratitude to Governor Dickson for spreading the dividends of democracy to all parts of the state, adding that it made campaigning easy for all candidates of the PDP. Also speaking, Fyneman Wilson, Special Adviser to the Governor on Political Matters, explained that the meeting was convened to discuss on how best the PDP would re-strategise ahead of Saturday’s rescheduled elections.