SAMUEL NWOKORO LAGOS – Barely twelve days into the general elections, public rating of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is so far one of apprehension and uncertainty, despite its litany of assurances. Conducting a general election in Nigeria is one of the toughest jobs any public officer can get. This is because; Nigeria does not have the pedigree of conducting rancor- free elections. Apart from the 1993 general election adjudged by both local and international observers—including Nigerians to have been free and fair, no other election conducted in the country has received such acclamation. Many factors have been adduced to this—our ethno-religious and sub-nationalistic group grievances coupled with the absence of internal democracy in the political parties. Internal conflicts in the political parties—arising most times from zoning formula and pre-election primaries’ outcomes of the political parties—have always resulted in one form of contention or the other, the result being a litany of litigations, which at the end puts INEC into logistic pressures unto the last minute to the polls. As often as has been the case in previous elections—1999, 2007,2011 and 2015, past INEC helmsmen have had to postpone the election day date for one reason or the other. The examples are many. And this gave rise to the incidence of disruption of date of swearing-in and end-of-tenure of incumbencies which had been uniform for all tiers of political leadership as is the case all over the world:-governors, presidents, LGA councilors and even legislators. And since INEC has come to stay as a public institution—and no more an adhoc one as the Military leaders that guided the 1999 general elections intended for it, politicians have learnt to latch on this to continually create unnecessary crises and controversies for the body, putting the agency on toes every minute of the day—up till election day. Whenever it become inescapable, INEC had to shift polls “in order to accommodate all grievances”. But to what extent?. This has led Nigerians to believe that no matter the extent of preparations or the amount spent, INEC would always have one genuine reason or the other to postpone one poll or the other. But would the present INEC chief, Professor Yakubu Mahmoud get it right at one take-off ? To the general public, there are still red flags on the way of INEC that does not give total confidence that the 2019 election would be hitch-free. Opinions are that unless the INEC hierarchy and its critical stakeholders make last minute change of mind to resolve these knots, relying on procedures and legalism would not help. According to former Head of state, ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo, “law is made for man and not man for the law. Daily Independent highlights some of these red flags likely to jeopardise INEC’s quest for an incontrovertible polling. As it remains barely ten days for the presidential and NASS elections to hold, INEC is yet to come clear on whether elections would hold in some states whose party primary elections are to be resolved. For instance in River state and Zamfara state, a court of competent jurisdiction has ruled that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) would not field candidate in that state following the logjam incurred during its gubernatorial primary election. The electoral commission, INEC, has released the full list of candidates cleared to contest the state assembly and governorship elections. The governorship and state assembly elections are scheduled to hold on March 2 across Nigeria. In the list , no candidates of Nigeria’s ruling party, APC, were listed for Rivers and Zamfara states. INEC had said it would not allow the APC field candidates in Zamfara because the party did not hold primaries within the stipulated time. Internal wrangling among leaders of the APC in Zamfara led to the inability to hold the primaries within the stipulated time. Although the APC faction loyal to Governor Abdulaziz Yari claims it held congresses and has candidates, the faction loyal to a senator, Kabiru Marafa, has insisted no primaries held. The party headquarters also said no primaries held but said it adopted consensus candidates within the stipulated time. Two separate courts in Abuja and Zamfara gave conflicting judgments on INEC’s stance. While the court in Abuja said the commission acted right, that in Zamfara ruled that the APC did conduct primaries and INEC should ensure the party presents candidates for the general elections. The electoral commission, however, says it would abide by the judgment of the Abuja court. In Rivers, a federal high court recently ruled that the APC disobeyed a high court order on its congresses and so its primaries that produced its candidates were null and void. The APC in Rivers is split into two, with a faction loyal to the Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, and another loyal to a senator, Magnus Abe. It is based on the high court ruling that INEC refused to recognise any APC candidate in Rivers. The commission, however, said it would wait to see if the appeal court would give a different ruling on the controversy. Another issue that the INEC would have to contend with from now to election is public apprehension of its ability to conduct a flawless poll in February 16.This stems from public rating of its last outing during the gubernatorial elections in Ekiti and Osun states in 2017 and 2018. According to the INEC’s own commissioner in the Information and Civic Education department , Mohammed Haruna,: “there is every tendency for the public to misinterpret INEC’s good intentions and determination to deliver a free and fair credible poll in 2019 because of the bad conduct of politicians in these two states during the elections.” Thus with this confession, it is feared that the general public would be going to vote with a mind already biased against INEC. Voter apathy may be likely in those states Because of events of the past few years in the country, the country’s security profile for the election has been rated low both by opposition political parties and even the international community. This will put a credibility task on whatever INEC announces as election results, unless there is a generally acknowledged peace and order during the election. For instance, two weeks ago, USA, EU and UK expressed reservations about the country’s preparedness to conduct the election in an atmosphere of peace and order. Late November shortly before the flag off of political party campaigns, the EU, USA UK and a host of other foreign governments Nigeria relate to in the global forum expressed concern over the security arrangement for the polls. The statements they jointly issued read in part: “We were gravely concerned over widespread incidents of intimidation, interference and vote-buying during the recent gubernatorial elections. We were also perturbed by irregularities and violence during party primaries, and noted with particular concern that several women candidates were disenfranchised. “We reiterate the importance of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as it fulfills its constitutional role. INEC must be allowed to operate free from outside pressure and intimidation, and in turn must demonstrate full neutrality and professionalism. We encourage that adequate funding is swiftly facilitated for INEC and supporting institutions, and we hope to see the entry into force of improvements to the Electoral Act as soon as possible. “We wish to draw particular attention to the fundamental role of the security agencies in providing a safe and secure environment for the Nigerian people to exercise their democratic rights. It is vital that security agencies act, and are seen to act, in an impartial manner that maintains the high standards of professional conduct. “We strongly support the principle of media freedom and the vital role the independent media plays in ensuring informed public debate. We also stress the importance of balanced, neutral and non-defamatory coverage.