Francis Omotayo Ajayi is the gubernatorial candidate of Young Democratic Party (YDP) in Lagos State. In this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, he spoke on his desire to become the next governor of Lagos and other issues. Excerpts: What is your view about the just postponed election by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)? It was a shock to all of us, my party and Nigerians. Postponement of election should not be less than 72 hours to election but unfortunately what we saw on Saturday was postponement of an election, few hours to casting of votes. We are not comfortable with that at all. It has just confirmed that INEC may not be prepared for this election. Majority of the people have travelled to various locations to cast their votes. Are they going to still travel to exercise their franchise on Saturday? You can see that the postponement has the capacity to affect the turn out of the rescheduled election. Why are you in the gubernatorial Race? I am in the race to change things for the good of Lagosians. Lagos State needs to be changed for the better. I am in the race to help Lagosians get dividend of democracy in Lagos State. Can you say the specific things that you intend to do for Lagosians? Good time is around now that my party has been able to choose me. Education is my priority, in the olden days things were better for the people. I enjoyed free education during Awolowo’s regime. I came from a less privileged background and if not for free education, I will not be where I am today. Free education is achievable in Lagos State, the only challenge is that our money is being diverted to areas that are not necessary. I am ready to make sure that the money that belongs to Lagos State is channeled to the right areas, from primary level to tertiary institution. There are  some other projects that I have for Lagos State, like security, a s a land surveyor, there is no way that you can curb insecurity without knowing the proper delineation of the area, that is why  insurgency is high in the country. How do you think that you can unseat an incumbent government, All Progressives Congress (APC) has been in government about 20 years and you think that your relatively young party can unseat the government? It is very clear and possible that my party can unseat APC in Lagos. There is no dividend of democracy so far from APC that is why I am moving from one local government to another to convince Lagosians that better days are ahead for them under my leadership. The logo of my party is caterpillar. I will use caterpillar to bulldoze anything that is not working right in the State. We will bulldoze insecurity, unemployment, hunger and by the time we achieve that APC will know that our party has arrived. What is your view about insinuation in some quarters that majority of Lagos voters could be considering casting their votes for just two gubernatorial candidates from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and APC? Posters and billboards are not the things Lagosians would vote for. I have told Lagosians that when they give you money to them, they should take it and vote for the right party. Lagosians are tired and are ready to try another party. Why would someone keep the money that his next generation would not be able to finish, and the philosophy of life is that if you have much food at home, you would not be hungry, so why are you keeping what you cannot finish when there is no hunger, life of our people will be good. When there is hunger, sickness is inevitable. Poverty is everywhere and if Lagosians see any party that can eradicate poverty, they will support that party.