To forestall future vandalism of oil installations, we expect the NNPC to replicate its recent surveillance contract with Ocean Marine Solutions (OMS) for the protection of the Trans Forcados Pipeline (TFP) to other installations. “The contract requires the security provider, OMS, to be responsible for repairs in the event of any damage to assigned installations.  We believe this will go a long way in motivating effective surveillance and curbing pipeline vandalism in the Niger Delta,” it stated. Just like any other business sector, in Africa in general and Nigeria in particular, during electioneering years, due to uncertainties, the maritime sub-sector of Nigeria economy is not left out. Businesses in the sector are already facing quiet period, months before the February 16, slated for the presidential election. Ismail Aniemu, a maritime analyst, said it was expected to be so for so many reasons. According to him, there is always a lull in business activities in January. “Unfortunately for us as a country, the last Presidential election was fixed for February 2015, before it was shifted to March due to security concerns, saying this one is fixed for February 16. He noted that our elections come at a period when generally business activities are low. Another reason why business is slow in the sector according to him, is that some of the key stakeholders in the maritime sector are politicians. ”Some of the key stake holders in the maritime industry are neck-deep in politics. We need to highlight that at National and State levels. I did not want to mention names. There are some who vied for governorship positions, and when they did not get it, they came back to their positions in the maritime sector, but they are still politicking in their various states, so you can see that some policy makers in the maritime industry are neck-deep involved in politics, “Aniemu said, adding that for such reasons, it affects the way the industry operates. Furthermore, he noted that investors, importers, exporters, transporters, are also involved in politicking. “So you cannot be doing two major activities at the same time”, he said. According to him, election comes with some degree of uncertainties. “Uncertainty in the sense that nobody wants to stake big money in investing,  when you does  not know what the political climate will be like in the next four to five months. They appreciate that government policies can easily change, if the political pendulum swings to another camp. So everybody becomes more careful.” The maritime analyst said that during this period, if one has huge money, he wants to invest, he or she watches the political climate, adding that even after elections, “I will tell you that people still takes time to wait for the swearing in because they want to hear what the new government will say, or will do about the sector. So it’s normal, this is what we see anytime close to election.” Also, Ernest Adingupu, a maritime guru noted that that basically in Nigeria, business is done blindly, adding that that it was why the country lack expertise, resulting in foreigners not willing to come to Nigeria to do business. Adingupu, the managing director and chief executive officer of INE-AWOLO Nigeria Limited, said there was no stability in the economy when it comes to election periods. “So every electioneering year in Nigeria, particularly in the ports, we have adverse and negative effects.  Local investors and foreign investors are apprehensive about what would be next. For instance we can see the problem with the government and Chief Justice of the Federation. So, come February 16,2019  nobody knows what will happen. You cannot predict March. It is only in Africa you cannot predict ordinary month, not even years after elections.  Now look at what is happening in the judiciary, everybody is threatening war here and there.” He averred that the previous and subsequent governments do not consider the businessmen during elections, adding that when they are caring on with politics, they do not think about the future of the masses. “No good policies. Even in the ports now, we don’t know what we are doing.” Adingupu said importers and exporters are slowing down the business because nobody will put his money in a burning fire. According to him, until everything stabilises, Nigeria economy is like a burning flame right now. “For the past three years now, we have a kind of sustainability, we know where the government was going and we were following. For instance, in the port here, the Customs tariff was stable. Even, the Naira, after experiencing several misfortunes, has been stable in the past two years, at 305 per dollar, but this time, nobody want to stake his money in burning flames because each time, there are uncertainties, heads must roll.” He said that policies of the government often affect freight forwarding, adding that the sub-sector from time based their business on fate. According to him, from now till April, no one can predict what will happen. Also, Benedict Emiohe, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jokbenemi Nigeria Limited, which engages in shipping, clearing and forwarding, import, export and general merchandise, in his contribution said that the coming election has since been having some negative impact in the sector. According to him, if goods are not coming into the country as it used to, there will be no business for many people including the freight forwarders. He said that as election approaches, people became afraid to invest because of uncertainties in Nigeria politics According to him, there is no stability in the government of this country, adding that many things are actually not working as they are in other parts of the world. According to him, the Goodluck Jonathan government saw stability in exchange rate, but that when the government of All Progressives Congress  (APC) came on board, the exchange rate rose astronomically until it later came to be a stable position  but , even at that, it is still high when compared with the immediate past government. He lamented that during this period, some importers who were importing ten containers dropped to three and two containers, while some totally went out of business. “This was because the exchange rate was high. So, when the election period is coming whereby it is being anticipated that there may be change in government, people always become afraid and held to their funds, and watch the in-coming government, before they start importation. “This affects freight forwarders because if goods are not coming in, they will not be busy as well. We are like service providers to people and companies”, he said. Emiohe, who is a member and the Treasurer of the International Freight Forwarders Association (IFFA), Ports and Terminal Multi-services Limited (PTML), said that for now, there is serous lull in importation, pending the end of elections. He said that apart from people that are importing vehicles, others importing general goods are more affected. This is because anybody who lives abroad and work can bring in cars. But importers here would have to go through the process of form ‘M’ and with the uncertainties at hand, they have to slow down the business. The Managing Director, Afrinvest West Africa Limited, an investment and research firm, Ike Chioke, said many commercial banks will restrict lending plans ahead of the 2019 general elections. Speaking during the release of the 2018 ‘Nigerian Banking sector Report’ in Lagos, he said lenders are already cutting loans to key sectors of the economy, due to the need to reduce the political risks and ensure safety of their funds.