Abuja – Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) reportedly raided the offices of the Head of Service (HoS) and the Ministry of Finance of Kwara State on Thursday over alleged diversion of N1.9 billion by the state government for election purposes, Daily Independent has learnt. No arrest was, however, made as at the time this report was filed. The EFCC has officially not made a statement on the alleged raid despite promising to get back to the newspaper after calls were made to the commission. As learnt, a petition was sent by some interested parties to the EFCC, alleging that the state government obtained N1.9 billion loan from banks without recourse to the state Assembly. According to insiders who claimed to have witnessed the raids, operatives of the commission ransacked selected offices in the Finance Ministry and the offices of the Head of Service in Ilorin but no arrests were reportedly made. The N1.9 billion, according to the state governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed, was meant to augment SUBEB/local government workers’ salary arrears. “But some opposition figures saw it differently,” explained a director at the SUBEB. According to him, the money being obtained close to election time suggested to them that the state government might want to use the money for election purposes, hence the report to the EFCC. Ironically, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was in Kwara a second time on campaign and for disbursement of the controversial TraderMoni. Opposition figures have criticised TraderMoni, saying that, like the N1.9 billion loan by Kwara, it was not appropriated by the National Assembly. But reacting to the alleged raid, Muyideen Akorede, Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed, declined knowledge of any raid, but admitted being aware of criticisms trailing the loan. Explaining the purpose of the money, Akorede said local government workers, pensioners, and basic education teachers in the state were to receive one month salary following the governor’s approval for the release of the N1.9 billion to councils and the Kwara State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). Breaking down how the money was to be spent, he said N1.1 billion was for workers of the state’s Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), N599 million for local government workers, N150 million for local government pensioners, and N50 million for former political office holders at the local government level. “Owing to the consistently low and unstable federal allocation, the state government often secures short term loans from banks to augment inflows to meet monthly obligations. “These obligations include salaries, pensions, and overheads as well as liabilities such as payments to contractors and gratuity arrears. “States affected by the consistent drop in monthly allocation often augment the shortfall with bank loans. Kwara State is no exception. “Additionally, banks only grant loans following due diligence which examines the capacity to repay and what the facility will be used for. “Any facility obtained by the state government, therefore, goes only towards budgeted expenditure. “It is through this prudent management of funds that we are able to pay salaries, pensions, and subventions as well as fund major infrastructure, besides providing repayment guarantees. “This administration will also liquidate these short term loan interventions by or before it leaves office,” explained Akorede. The EFCC has declined to make comments on the matter. When Daily Independent made a call to Tony Orilade, Head, Media and Publicity to the EFCC, he promised to get back to the publication for clarification. Orilade, however, failed to do so before this report was filed.