Barely one week to this year’s general elections, there is palpable fear and tension across the country that millions of Nigerians may be disenfranchised. This is because, a lot of people are yet to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) the major prerequisite to take part in the exercise. Also, there is the fear that those with Temporary Voter Cards (TVCs) may not be allowed to vote. Reports from states show that heaps of PVCs are lying at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) offices yet to be delivered to their owners. For weeks, a cross section of the electorate had been visiting the INEC collection centres at the local governments’ secretariats to collect their PVCs without success, leading to calls for extension of the deadline. At the collection centres throughout last week, there were long queues at INEC offices and distribution centres across the country. It was indeed tough last Thursday as many Nigerians tried to beat the earlier deadline set by the electoral umpire. Many, indeed, left the venues dejected and frustrated as a result of the hassles involved in the collection of their PVCs. INEC Responds To Calls For Extension However, following mounting criticisms at the deadline elapsed on Friday, INEC extended the collection of the PVCs to Monday February 11 (tomorrow), that is, five days to the presidential election coming up on Saturday, February 16. Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC Chairman announced the extension during a meeting with Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC). The decision, according to him, was taken following situation reports by the RECs about how many PVCs were yet to be collected by voters. Announcing the extension on Thursday, the INEC boss stated that it was not desire of INEC to disenfranchise any voters. He said  the extended time covers Saturday, February 9, and Sunday, February 10. According to him, “The collection of PVCs will now take place from 9.am to 6.pm daily.” He charged all INEC state offices to review the procedure for the collection of PVCs and dedicate all the staff of the Local Government offices to the collection process. “The commission wishes to reassure Nigerians that we will continue to take every necessary step to ensure that no registered voter is disenfranchised on account of non-collection of PVCs,” he said. Even though Yakubu had previously assured that the deadline of collection would be a week before the election, many Nigerians had complained about the unavailability of their cards despite registering months ago. A lot of Nigerians took to social media to complain that their cards were not ready when they went to their respective INEC centres last Friday. Yakubu said urgent steps would be taken to solve the problem before the new Monday deadline. He said, “Similarly, the Commission is taking urgent steps to address complaints of unavailability of the PVCs of some registered voters before the end the deadline for the collection. “We wish to reiterate that after the deadline of Monday 11th February 2019, all uncollected PVCs will be recalled and deposited with the CBN for safe-keeping until after the General Elections when the collection of cards and the continuous registration of voters will resume.” Parties, Stakeholders Raise Alarm Before the extension, Oseloka Obaze, Anambra State chairman of Atiku/Obi Presidential Campaign Council, had expressed worry over the large number of uncollected PVCs across the country. Like several other people, he urging INEC to evolve means of ensuring that the owners of the cards got them before the election. Obaze, who spoke in Awka, Anambra State capital, stressed that the success of the forthcoming polls depended so much on INEC, even as he expressed the hope that the electoral umpire would live up to the expectations of Nigerians. He said: “INEC has the onus to meet the litmus test by ensuring free, fair and credible election. Everybody, including the international community, is looking up to the electoral body to meet the aspirations of the people. “For instance, there are many PVCs yet to be collected by the prospective voters in all states and we hope that INEC will do the right thing to enable Nigerians collect their cards and vote during the election, as giving every eligible voter the opportunity to participate in the exercise is a sure way of making Nigerians to accept the outcome of the election.” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the country’s main opposition party, like several other political parties, also expressed worry over the difficulty Nigerians encounter in collection of their PVCs across the country. The PDP also accused some officials of INEC of stealing the PVCs. “We have told INEC to extend the collection by at least three days to enable Nigerians to get their PVCs. Basically, most of the people who registered late are unable to get their PVCs and in certain places, some of the PVCs have been stolen by compromised officials. Even when they are not stolen, prospective voters are being told to go and come back on Friday, which is the last day. “So, we have made a passionate appeal to INEC that they should allow an extension but we are surprised that INEC has been sending out messages to Nigerians that those who have not collected their PVCs still have up till Friday (today) to do so.” Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, had also on Thursday appealed to INEC to extend the deadline for PVC collection. Adams, incidentally, received his PVC on Thursday, 24 hours after he had issued a statement warning INEC not to disenfranchise him and the rest of his family. On receiving his card from an INEC official, Adams stated: “Let me say it once again, that the problem is not about me, and the rest of my family. However, it is about millions of Nigerians that are fit and eligible to vote and exercise their civic rights. Eligible Nigerians must be allowed to vote and this is possible when the PVCs are available. “For instance in Oyo State, about 800,000 people are yet to collect their PVCs, and that is too bad. Therefore, I am using this opportunity to appeal to the INEC boss, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to extend the date for the collection of PVCs to Tuesday 12 of February, even as campaigns for electoral offices end by Thursday, 14th of February, so that a good number of Nigerians will have the opportunity to vote. “The 2015 experience, when about 40 percent of Nigerians in the South West were disenfranchised, was sad and not too good for us.” Afenifere Laments Afenifere, pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, in its reaction, said it had received lots of complaints from Nigerians on their inability to get their PVCs. Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of the organisation, like many others, appealed to INEC to extend the deadline for the collection so as not to disenfranchise Nigerians from exercising their civic rights. Odumakin said: “We have received complaints of people saying they have not been given their PVCs. They said they have been going to INEC offices every now and then and they are being asked to come back. “We are not satisfied and we like INEC to consider having a day or two extension for people to collect their PVCs because once you don’t give them, you have disenfranchised them.” Divergent Views On Extension Before INEC announced the extension, respondents had expressed divergent views with some insisting that it should if that would guarantee free, fair and transparent election. Chief Emma Onyeukwu, a community leader, wondered why people could not collect their PVCs when INEC gave a long time for people to collect their cards. He said every citizen must join hands to ensure that the election is successful. Onyeukwu said: “Why would anybody talk about such though they are entitled to their opinion. Everybody must align himself to the time table or set plans by INEC. “It is in my own opinion that it is unreasonable to suggest such. INEC has released time table and on regular basis called for collection of PVC. Everyone ought to have collected his PVC by now. INEC is now busy for the election and should not devote the whole time to distribution of cards. “For me, we need to go back to the basic civic role to enhance the activities in the country. Ikechukwu Nwobu, Acting Registrar, School of Health Technology, Obosi, Anambra State, said INEC should extend the collection time to two days to the election if it would promote credible polls. He said: “Yes, it should be extended to two days to the date of the election. INEC should give extra six days to give everybody chance to participate. It will also contribute to the success of the election.” Nwobu said the extension was in the interest of the country provided that it would aid credible elections. Dangerous Signal Nze Joe Onumiriukwa Ohianku, Secretary, Providence People’s Congress (PPC), Obowo, Imo State, said: “There is no justification for INEC to extend the deadline because it might send a dangerous signal that the commission was not organised and not ready for the polls. “The election is very much around the corner and what INEC is expected to do at this point in time is to begin to put finishing touches on arrangements it has already put in place to conduct the elections. “Anxiety, fears and apprehension are mounting among Nigerians and extending the deadline for the collection might cast doubts in the minds of the people. “I cannot make any categorical statement about the preparedness of the security agencies to provide adequate security for the elections because I am not  a security chief. “Let the security agencies speak for themselves on this, but from feelers available, I want to believe that they are ready for the polls. I understand that there has been an in house re-organisation and that some police Chiefs have been deployed to new states as CPs. We want free, fear and credible election and the security agencies are aware that Nigerians would not like to tolerate any lapses from them.” INEC Should Be Allowed To Concentrate Chief Clifford Ubochi Anamkuta, Secretary, National Conscience Party (NCP), Owerri West, Imo State, stated: “This is not the time for us to talk of any form of extension of date for the collection of PVCs. INEC has given enough time for the people to go and collect it. The electoral body should concentrate on its job. INEC Must Not Shut Its Doors Against Voters Taiwo Adelugba, an Osogbo-based legal practitioner said that it was necessary for INEC to extend the deadline for PVC collections in view of the new development and negative moves by politicians to beat the rules ahead of the election. Adelugba said that there were new happenings in the polity that INEC must keep itself abreast of and promptly respond to them so that it will not beat the commission’s laid down rules and guidelines. He noted that PVCs had no doubt assisted the commission to prevent loopholes to break the rules, adding that INEC must not shut its doors against the people in this crucial time. He explained that this is the time the electoral body must keep itself warmly with stakeholders especially the voters to know their mind on its preparations for the election. Adelugba however admonished INEC not devotes much attention to it so as not to derail it from the original assignment of conducting free, fair, credible election in the country. He noted that by now the electoral body must have gotten more than enough facts to work upon to achieve the desire result of credible poll The New Deadline Is Fair Enough Comrade Idugboe Omoreghan, a member of Civil Society Organisations (CSO), said: “The deadline for the collection of PVC has been extended many times in Edo State by INEC. I am talking to you now, I have just been told that the collection will now end on Wednesday February 13, which is three days to the Presidential election. (The new deadline is Monday February 11). I think that date is fair enough, unless you want it extended to the last day to the election which I think is not proper.”