Hon. Hope George is the Senior Special Assistant to Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State on Youth Development. He spoke to Wilson Macaulay on the reelection bid of his principal and other issues. Excerpts: You were already a well-known youth Ambassador before you were appointed by Governor Okowa. Since your appointment what purpose has that served for the youth in Delta State?. Our amiable Governor,  His Excellency Senator Dr. Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa being a seasoned  and very experienced administrator, saw the gap in youth affairs in governance, so he moved closer  to effect my appointment because the youths are the future drivers  of any  nation, be it politics or economy. To bridge that missing link, be appointed  me as an SSA to bridge the gap between the state and the youths. He even appointed Commissioner for youth development, that in a nutshell tells us in clinical  details that Gov. Okowa is indeed a youth friendly Gov. who is concerned about the welfare and wellbeing of the youths. Specifically, how have you used the office to better the lots of the youth out there? The Office of the SSA  the Governor on Youth Development is one of the strategic and innovational creation of Governor Okowa to effectively interface with the youths  on all issues that concerns them, as encapsulated in the SMART Agenda. He has used his wealth of experience to place the Delta youth in vantage position amongst  their peers  in any state in Nigeria. The youths have never had it so nice. Specifically in this Okowa era, the Job creation office has done wonderfully well. The media is awash with one endorsement or the other of Governor Okowa. Why are Deltans clamouring for him? Deltans have resolved to support the re-election bid of Governor Okowa because he has done well in all ramifications in line with the strategic wealth creation initiatives  of this administration geared towards prosperity for all Deltans. Looking at agriculture, health, education and the mile stone in road construction you will agree with me that he has kept his campaign promises. The people are clamouring for him because he created jobs for the youths  and  women and he is taking  good  care of widows who gets special attention from the state govt. He provided health care facilities that are truly modern by every standard. The physically challenged persons are not left out in his magnanimous disposition toward the people of Delta State. He has Created a peaceful environment through the Delta State Peace Building and Advisory Council under the able leadership of Prof. Sam Oyovbaire.  The Governor has ensured that there is adequate security for Deltans 2 4/7. Before his coming on board, kidnapping was rampant but today all that is history. The waterways that was infested with sea pirates is today very safe to ply. Land security is also very essential and  the Governor has done justice to that. He has engaged a good number of youths across the three senatorial district as youth peace ambassadors, working with the security agents to ensure that peace prevail in all Delta communities. He has broken the yoke of building Stephen Keshi Stadium Asaba with modern facilities. Today, we have six technical colleges already working optimally to bridge the gap in youth unemployment. Thousand of youths are now entrepreneurs and employers of labour through the STEP and YAGEP Programme. No local Government Area in Delta State that has not felt the positive impact of the SMART Agenda. The Governor has political appointees across board who are working assiduously round the clock to deliver him for second tenure. His chance of winning the forthcoming governorship election is very high, because Chief Great Ogboru is a spent force that is used to losing.