LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari has stated that reliable power supply is critical to promoting ease of doing business in the country. The President made the disclosure recently at the commissioning of Ariara Market Independent Power Project in Abia state. He said: “I am pleased to commission this milestone achievement. Reliable power supply is critical to ease of doing business. We are heading towards moving our economy further. Jobs are created through investment in projects like this. This project shows progress can be made irrespective of political difference.” Speaking, the Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, expressed optimism that the project would reposition Aba as one of the nation’s industrial hubs. “I am happy to say when this option came for power to be provided in this beautiful way, we all rallied around it and said we must do the needful to give Aba the option of which power source to choose and this is far better than whatever they have seen before now. I am happy to say that Aba is perhaps one of the few places where we have had uninterrupted power which will scale up. With this initiative, there is a great change in business here in Ariaria market.” In his remarks, Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Power, Works and Housing explained that President Buhari, was invited to commission Ariaria market IPP to see what his administration has championed for MSMEs. Fashola, who said there used to be 6,000 generators in Ariaria Market producing hazardous emissions, however disclosed that it has been majorly eliminated through the implementation of Federal Government policies. Damilola Ogunbiyi, the Chief Executive Officer of Rural Electrification Agency, said hithertho almost 10,000 shops have been electrified as part of the Energising Economies initiative within Ariaira Market in Abia, Sabon Gari Market in Kano, Sura Market complex and Iponri market in Lagos, Isikan market in Ondo. She expressed that the development shows that the current administration is was committed to ensuring that Nigerian businesses are given the ability to thrive and thus boost economic activity in a conducive and healthy environment. Ubani Nkaginieme, the Chief Executive Officer, Ariara Market Energy Solutions Limited, said: “The Federal Government’s Energising Economies Initiative is responsible for us being able to carry out this project.