NICHOLAS UWERUNONY, TOYIN ADEBAYO More condemnations came the way of Nasir el Rufai’, governor, Kaduna State, over his claim that 66 Fulani men were killed in Adara, last week. State police boss, Ahamed Abdulrhaman and National President, Southern Kaduna People’s Union, SOKAPU, who gave details of what transpired according to their investigations, disputed the governor’s claim. Abdulrhaman said that claim by the governor that 66 Fulani were killed, making it look like it happened on the eve of last week Saturday when the general election was supposed to happen, was without basis, saying he warned the governor not to go ahead with the call. From revelations by key stakeholders in Kaduna’s security architecture, the conflict which appears to have taken lives from both Adara indigenes and Fulanis must have happened between 10 and 11 of February, a clear four days before it was announced by el-Rufai, on the eve of election that was later rescheduled by the National Independent Electoral Commission, INEC. Even more, the governor, a Fulani himself, had allegedly claimed that only Fulani men were victims when later revelations showed that other victims from other ethnic group were killed. “Right now, if the governor tells you that 200 people were killed, he is just quoting figures. It may be more than that or less than that. For example, the areas visited where we were told that 36 bodies were buried, was not under the purview of the security at the beginning of the investigation until when the Fulani victims themselves came out crying after we have secured all the places with our military counterpart. “I told the governor himself, I said figures in a crisis of this magnitude should be left until all investigations have been finished. All those areas we are getting information are covered. You cannot come up with a figure. You will come and say a figure and later you have to come and say it again. And this is what is happening. As far as police is concerned we are investigating and investigation is still at embryonic stage. As I’m talking to you now, my men are still in the bush, plus SEMA and other CSOs,” Abdulrhaman said. He also spoke on alleged bias towards victims of Fulani by the state governor and police in the Adara conflict. As alleged, the police gave protection only to Fulanis after the killings. The CP said the Fulani’s approached the Governor for security cover to enable them moved their livestock’s and crops from the hamlet that was why they were given cover if the Ajara natives ask for security cover they will equally be given. “I want everybody to be patient, the truth will soon be out and we are going to say the number of deaths. “That’s why professionally, we don’t come out with figures until when we are sure and concluded our investigation. So, you see that there is no reason to say this one said this figure or that one said this figure,” Abdulrhaman added. Reacting on the same matter, Solomon Musa, the SOKAPU national president said he failed to understand why the governor will make such a call on the eve of momentous election giving impression that killings and conflicts which occurred four days earlier happened on the eve of the election. “It came as shock and dismay to us because I am the national president of SOKAPU and as the national president, Hausa, Fulani’s, Atiya, Ajara, all report incidences to me and I know as a matter of fact that on that Sunday, the national president of Ajara People called to inform me that they came under a barrage of attacks and 11 people were killed. “Immediately he informed me , I said he should notify the relevant authorities. No action was taking by any government at the local government and at the state level. Security agencies were not mobilized to go there,” he said. He further alleged that el Rufai’s motive in making such announcement is unclear. “In September or October last year, there was a terrible mayhem leading to colossal loss of lives in Kasuama Magani and government never went on air to announce that members of this ethnic nationality were killed. It was a shock that government on the eve of election will go on air that 66 Fulani’s killed. We could not fathom why he did that,” he said. “Around August last year, the governor went to Kafanchan and had a meeting with CAN officials and told them that Southern Kaduna people are violent people, that they love violence. That in Southern Kaduna it is cyclical, that every four years there must be violence,” he narrated. Priscilla About, executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Kaduna State Peace Commission, said that its commission has always emphasised on the need for dialogue and not open bandying of casualty figures. “We spoke to different stakeholders group and we gathered that Kajuru local government area requires very deep dialogue so that we can talk through the deep sitted grievances existing in the community which every now and then we see it escalating in this type of violence. As a commission which is to promote peaceful and harmonious co existence in the state, our immediate interest is to see how we stabilize the community, support them to resume their normal lives as quickly as possible,” Ankut said.