Barely seven days to the presidential election, former President Goodluck Jonathan has cautioned politicians, especially those seeking elective offices, not to let their ambitions set the nation on fire. Jonathan, who stated this in Abuja, on Thursday, at a one day peace conference organized by the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation, added that without peace, no meaningful development could be achieved. The former president, who said that the world was watching Nigeria, as it goes to the poll, added that all effort must be mustered to make the polls violent-free. Speaking at the conference, with the theme, “Peaceful Elections and National Development,” Jonathan warned against the implications should the elections go wrong. The former president, who called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and security personnel to be professional in the discharge of their responsibilities before, during, and after the elections, added that political leaders must realize that the greatest and most enduring legacy to leave behind was that of peace and development. He said: “For democracy to endure and be productive on the continent, African politicians and other stakeholders must realize that true heroes of leadership are not those whose desperation to impose their will endangers society, but those who have the humility to subjugate their personal ambitions to the collective interest of their nations. “Our political leaders must realize that the greatest and most enduring legacy to leave behind is that of peace and development. “We are convinced that any one, either in government or outside government, who truly loves Nigeria, will not want to play the role of the villain by lending his support to any action that instigates crises. “There is no gainsaying that when politicians resort to desperate measures in the bid to occupy important political positions, they run the risk of plunging their countries into serious crises that often lead to loss of lives, degradation of values as well as destruction of private and public assets. “We know that good governance is the fertile ground upon which peace and sustainable economic growth are planted. In this regard, it is important to point out that in a democracy, periodic, credible and peaceful elections are the necessary gateways to improved governance and people-oriented development. “It is on record that despite the marked improvement on the regularity and number of democratic nations, election-related violence has continued to be experienced in many African nations, often to the detriment of peaceful co-existence, economic growth and sustainable development. “Although it is reassuring to note that democracy is being consolidated on the continent, with elections now conducted routinely by many African nations, it is however difficult to express such optimism on the peaceful nature of the electoral processes.” Also speaking, the former military head of state, General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd), tasked the nation’s leaders on the need for peaceful election. He recalled how Nigeria disappointed those who predicted doom for the nation during the 2015 elections. He said: “We all recall the tension in Nigeria during the 2015 elections where the doomsayers were predicting the balkanization of Nigeria, but thank God through the action of Nigerians and the then President, Goodluck Jonathan, they were proved wrong because the gentleman kept his word that his presidency was not worth the blood of any Nigerian and he graciously conceded defeat at that election.” Cautioning Nigerians not see the presence of world leaders in the country as an intrusion, the Special Guest of Honour and former President of Liberia, Professor Amos Sawyer, said: “Nigeria’s role in West Africa makes election in this country very critical. So, elections in Nigeria cannot be seen solely as a Nigeria’s affair.” Speaking on the topic titled, “Electoral Violence in Nigeria: Causes, Consequences, and Options for Prevention,” Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Hassan Kukah, who was the lead speaker, explained what violence was all about. Kukah, who said that violence was nothing but a reflection of deep frustration in the society, condemned the cheap values accorded human lives in the country, adding that killings no longer made meaning to people so long as those killed were not from their ethnic nationalities. Dignitaries present at the event included the Special Representatives of the United Nations Secretary General for West Africa and the Sahel, Mohammed Ibn Chambas; the Liberian Ambassador to Nigeria, Professor Al-Hassan Conteh; former Inspector General of Police, Solomon Arase; erstwhile Adamawa state governor, Boni Haruna, and former Defence Minister, Bello Haliru. Others were wife of former president Jonathan, Mrs. Patience Jonathan; ex-Chief of Staff to ex-president Jonathan; former Edo State deputy governor, Mike Oghiadomhe, a one-time Minister of state (Finance), Bashir Yuguda; popular entertainer cum activist, Charles Oputa (Charly Boy), among others.