Katsina State governor, Aminu Masari, in this interview with journalists speaks on the recently concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections and other developments in his state. Excerpts: Do you feel the APC will win the elections? In Katsina state we are sure of 100 percent success for the APC from the result we have received so far. and we have received over 80 percent of the results and the margin between us and the PDP is not something they can close. One can say from what we have on ground now is that the gap is impossible to close. From the information we are getting nationwide I believe APC is going to win, we are ahead in more than 20 states. Clearly APC has taken over the North West completely. In the north east we are waiting for the outcome of Taraba.In the north central, its Plateau and Benue we are waiting to see. We are confident of taking Kwara and Kogi 100 percent and south west is APC completely .From the information I have we have already gotten two senators from Akwa Ibom. So if you look at the general performance of APC.and if you look at the south east, there is no more allocation of votes as votes must count .I am sure the president will do well in the south east, people are saying 30 percent but I am predicting more than that because in places like Ebonyi, Enugu and even Anambra where the vice president of the PDP comes from is APGA and they are holding forte. I believe there are going to be just and fair and allow votes to count. Generally if you look at the performance, APC is going to win the election. Everywhere has been calm in Katsina, right before the election, during the election and after the election. What magic have you done to sustain the peace during and after the elections? In governance there is no magic it is doing what one is supposed to do at the right time .We told the people of Katsina that what we are doing for all the people of Katsina state irrespective of your political leanings or religion. Peace is for all and not for a tribe or section. Peace is so important that it should not belong to the security agencies or government alone, community and religious leaders all have a role to play and must sensitize everybody about the issue of peace. I believe we have provided justice and fairness and we have made issue of security everybody’s business and when we have challenges we don’t hide it, we bring it out. Anybody who has and above all when you are conducting presidential elections with President Muhammadu Buhari whom I am sure some PDP members will vote for ,you cannot have violence because he is somebody whose time has come. Something unusual happened, Accord Party won at the president’s ward, is there anything wrong with APC family in Katsina? No, you can see how sentimental some people can be. They voted for the president and also for the senator. You remember the senator that died on the platform of the PDP came from Daura local government. I am not surprised if people of the ward one voted for him as he is not in the same political party as the president. If he had brought another presidential candidate to Daura that would have been different .But he did not ,what he did cleverly was to go with his poster and that of President Buhari and being from that ward and the senator representing Katsina north is from Kankia local government and like I said people can be sentimental and so I am not surprised. So are you satisfied with the performance of INEC? In Katsina state, yes. But like I said, when the election was shifted I hope it will not become a culture. People had finished preparations and had spent time and money and by adjusting even if it’s for one day it’s going to cost the government money and the political parties .I hope the extension has provided a level playing ground for all political parties and participants and from the Information I have received across the nation even international observers are expressing satisfaction with the arrangements and conduct of the elections by INEC.There have been some reports of violence but there are not in such a way that will affect the process of the credibility on the outcome. So i am satisfied. You have expressed optimism about the outcome of the elections and also the opposition have also expressed the same optimism.Some political analysts are also of the view that this election is too close to call. Do you have concerns about the elections? I had concerns before but not now. From the reports I am receiving we don’t have concerns .If you are going for elections, it is not over until it is over. When our political opponents are hoping ,yes they can hope but the reality on ground I can confidently say we are in the majority in 22,23 states, I can’t see how the other states can change things more, especially as democracy is a game of numbers and those states have provided the numbers. Obviously, we know who the winner is and it is best for this country to have a leader who is widely accepted. In the next two weeks you will be contesting the gubernatorial elections, do you think you have done enough to deserve a second term? If I had not done enough I would not have presented myself for reelection. T toured the local governments in 2015 and we made promises to the people that’s why when the next round of elections came, we were not afraid to go back to those communities with our scorecard and I believe we have over 6000 polling units and we are proud to say that in every polling unit we have something to show. We promised restoration of education and the performance in terms of exams ,WAEC, NECO has shown and that it is clear to the people of Katsina that the path we have taken in restoring education is the best. Our hospitals can compete with any hospital not only did we do the buildings, we upgraded the equipment, we employed consultants, in the three and half years, we have employed more than 2000 doctors ,nurses ,midwives. We can now say we have not less than 8 to 10 hospitals, some have reached 40 percent and some 100 percent. We don’t want anybody to leave Jibia and come to Katsina for medical examination, we have provided all this. Our people no longer go to Kano for MRI scan, we have the equipment and we have the people. We came when the finances of the government went down drastically, what we did was as a result of good leadership. Responsible and good leadership can use the little resources in the state to impact positively. There is no state also where the federal government is not doing something . Did we get more money than what PDP got in 16 years? We got less than 40 percent of what they got and today we are proud to say that this is what we have done. God willing we are just waiting for the time and for us in the APC in Katsina state is just a confirmation in this election APC is giving 100 percent and in the next two weeks we are still giving 100 percent.