Lagos – The management of Jade Internet Services, owners of Jumia Food, has debunked the allegation that one of their managers, Mr. Guy Futi, was arrested by the men of the Nigerian Police Force, Zone II over allegation of fraud and conversion of the company’s funds for personal use. The company has described the allegations untrue and mere fabrication. It would be recalled that it was reported that Mr Futi’s arrest was effected by the police over a petition written to the police by a logistics services providing company, Castle Logistics Services Limited. In the petition dated the 24th day of December, 2018, signed by one Mrs. Catherine Azubuike, the Petitioner, she alleged that the firm entered into a Service Level Agreement with Jumia Foods, sometime in August 2016, wherein they are to provide personnel services and equipment to Jumia Food for delivery of food supply requests made online by its customers, adding that it also involves the collection of monies and consequent remittance of same to Jumia. While debunking the allegations, the management said Mr. Futi did not misappropriate the company’s funds or convert them for personal use, adding that if he had done so, legal action would have been taken against him. In a statement made available to the press and signed by one Mr. Seyi Oni, the Chief Legal Officer for Jade Internet Services, the company said: “The current Country Manager of Jumia Food Nigeria, Mr. Guy Futi, neither misappropriated the company’s funds nor converted them for personal use. “If this had happened, Jumia would have taken a legal action against him, and probably involved the press. He was never involved in any fraudulent act. “Mr. Futi was invited for questioning by the Nigerian Police Force on Thursday January 31st, 2019 in relation to an ongoing case of fraud filed by Jumia Food against one of its vendors, Castle Logistics Services. Mr. Futi was never detained by the police. He was invited for questioning, and left the station after the interrogation same day. At the time the incident for which Jumia took a legal action against Castle Logistics occurred, Mr. Futi had not joined the company. The allegation of fraud by Castle Logistics is thus a malicious attempt to distract Jumia Food from carrying out a legal action against the company.” The  Company, however, condemned in strong terms the libelous intent of the article published by a newspaper, saying the allegations are completely untrue, and appear to be a cheap effort by Castle Logistics to malign Jumia.