Enugu – Ahead of tomorrow’s presidential election, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra have jointly endorsed the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and his running mate, Peter Obi, as their choice for the election. They urged Ndigbo at home and in Diaspora to come out en masse tomorrow to vote the Atiku/Obi ticket. The decision was taken after an Igbo stakeholders’ meeting convened by Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide in collaboration with Alaigbo Development Foundation (ADF) in Enugu on Thursday. The aim of the meeting, according to the organisers, was to exhaustively review recent events in the Nigerian polity as they relate to Ndigbo in particular, especially in the aftermath of the postponement of the presidential and National Assembly elections. They also said it was to express the solidarity and commitment of all pan-Igbo groups and stakeholders to work together in view of the dire situation facing Nigeria in general and Ndigbo in particular. A communiqué read after the meeting by Chief Nnia Nwodo, President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, clearly stated that all pan-Igbo organisations and stakeholders including IPOB and MASSOB were committed to working together in the spirit of “onye-aghana-nwanneya” (be your brothers’ keeper) even in the face of existential threat confronting them as a people. According to Nwodo, the meeting also viewed with utmost concern the explosive political situation in Nigeria as it appears the country was sliding downhill and this portends greater danger of collective immolation with catastrophic consequences for the country. They noted with great apprehension, the massive mobilisation and deployment of soldiers within all enclaves in Igboland, even with no constitutional provision for the deployment of soldiers for electioneering purposes and therefore advised that every effort must be made to ensure that these soldiers do not engage in the harassment of the public going about their lawful civic responsibilities. They called on “all Ndigbo, the international community and election observers to join us in monitoring the activities of these soldiers during this period to ensure that all their activities are strictly in accordance with the law”. Nwodo stated further, “We urge all Ndigbo in their various places of abode in Nigeria and elsewhere to continue to live in orderly and peaceful co-existence with their neighbours in the manner we are well-known as a people but refuse to be intimidated by anybody. “We agree that the irreducible minimum for Ndigbo that will be acceptable for their continued participation in the Nigerian enterprise will be a renegotiated and restructured Nigeria based on equality, equity and justice and for the component regions and individuals who will live under its authority. It must be one that ensures self-determination for the various nationalities, regional autonomy and freedom of the component regions to manage and control their political environment and resources and worship their God without let or hindrance. Consequently, our demand for the total restructuring of the Nigerian polity as encapsulated in the Ekwueme Square Awka Declaration by Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide and its ADF-facilitated Enugu affirmation endorsed by many Igbo groups remain the best framework for a workable Nigerian state and we stand by those declarations at all times. “We note that only one political party has so far committed to the restructuring of Nigeria based on the manifesto released by the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that meets substantially the demands for a just society where ethnicities, regions and sections of society are allowed to relate as they wish, make progress at their own pace, without interference by the others. “Therefore, Ndigbo reiterate our unequivocal support and endorsement for the Atiku/Obi presidential ticket as already announced by the national leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Alaigbo Development Foundation (ADF), and other Igbo interest groups like the Association of South-East Town Unions (ASETU), etc,” they stated. The meeting called on all Igbo registered voters both at home and outside the Igbo homeland to come out en masse to join all patriotic Nigerians of other ethnic nationalities and vote for Atiku/Obi ticket. Nwodo continued, “This election is our collective struggle for freedom and we must count it all joy to be part of history. “We note with great disappointment the inciting comments by certain persons in authority, which directly fuel security concerns about the safety of Ndigbo, both inside and outside Igbo land, both during and after the general elections. We also note the proliferating presence of able-bodied young men of questionable intent, doing no serious business, who have flooded all nooks and crannies of our homeland. “We urge all town unions in Igboland to be very vigilante to monitor and control the movement and activities of all persons in their domain and report all untoward activities to the appropriate quarters for analysis and action. “Finally, we commend the avowed interest of the international community in having credible elections in Nigeria. As Ndigbo, we invite their direct humanitarian intervention in whatever ways that the need may arise in Nigeria,” Nwodo said.