ADO-EKITI – Deputy Governor Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi of Ekiti State has assured that the 2019 general elections would not divide Nigeria as being feared in some quarters. Egbeyemi expressed confidence that Nigeria would remain a united and indivisible country after the conduct of the Presidential, National Assembly, Governorship and State Assembly polls. The deputy governor gave the assurance when he received members of the state chapter of Timber Lorry Drivers and Loaders Association of Nigeria who staged a solidarity rally in support of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term bid. According to him, all ethnic groups in Nigeria need themselves and should use the coming elections to deepen the country’s unity. The members of the association also expressed their support for other All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in the general elections describing the party as the best platform for good governance and purposeful leadership. Egbeyemi assured that Nigeria will enjoy peace before, during and after the February 16 and March 2 elections while the polls will be conducted under an atmosphere of peace. The deputy governor urged the people of Ekiti State to vote massively for the APC to ensure overwhelming victory for Buhari and other candidates of the broom party. He said Ekiti State will benefit immensely when the APC controls government both at federal and state levels adding that such a scenario will add value to the lives of the people in all sectors. Egbeyemi urged members of the association to continue their mobilization at all polling units to ensure victory for the President and other APC candidates. The deputy governor said: “February 16 is the day for Buhari, whatever units you are expected to go there and perform your responsibility by voting for. “We want you and all the people of Ekiti State to vote overwhelmingly for Buhari so that it will be easy for us to demand whatever we need from the Federal Government in terms of empowerment, infrastructure and good positions. “We are not opposed to Buhari in Ekiti; Buhari is our man here so let us return massive votes for him so that he can remain in office to continue his good works. “One ethnic group cannot successfully rule the country without the support of other ethnic groups. “Hausas, Igbos, Yorubas and others must all work together on the unity of this country. We can never be divided by the grace of God.”