Osogbo – A chieftain of People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, has appealed to Osun State government to increase its commitment to treatment of hepatitis in hospitals to avert premature death and alleviate the burden of those suffering from the ailment.
Ogunbiyi, in a statement issued by his media aide, Ismail Afolabi, copy of which was made available to Independent Newspapers in Osogbo ,said there is need for the government to take a bold action towards integrated services against viral hepatitis.
He noted that several people living with hepatitis in the country hardly get services needed to prevent, test for and treat the disease.
Ogunbiyi stressed that by investing more in diagnostic tests and medicines for treating hepatitis B and C, “we can save lives and reduce costs related to the long-term care of cirrhosis and liver cancer that result from untreated hepatitis.”
The statement said, “if we look at the global picture, according to the World Health Organisation and Hepatitis Alliance, an estimated 325 million men, women and children are currently living with viral hepatitis. Sadly, studies have shown that if proper measures are not taken, the number would increase by 76 million by 2030. This prediction and several glaring facts raise a concern and underscore the need to address this global burden.”
He said: “It is a statement of fact that serious investments in eliminating hepatitis, despite the paucity of funds in Osun, would avert several premature deaths and alleviate the burden of those suffering from the ailment which sometimes translates into liver cancer deaths.”
“Today; World Hepatitis Day, I join the call for bold steps and actions against this impairment. The state government and every spirited person should rise to this challenge and integrate well-thought-out and monitored services for hepatitis into health packages and social services to support the underserved.
“By investing in diagnostic tests and medicines for treating hepatitis B and C, we – the government and individuals – can save lives and reduce costs related to the long-term care of cirrhosis and liver cancer that result from untreated hepatitis.”