Sixty people have been arrested on suspicion of being involved in a rape case. The arrests came after a four-year-old girl was raped in Islamabad, According to Desiblitz.com. The child is in a critical condition at the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS). The victim’s father alleged that she was denied treatment at two other hospitals for several hours. PIMS spokesperson Dr Wasim Khawaja said that the girl is on a ventilator. The hospital’s executive director Dr Raja Amjad Mehmood stated that the child was raped and strangled. She is suffering from pneumonia because she was dumped in a pond, causing her lungs to fill with water. The child is under observation, however, her condition has deteriorated. The girl’s father explained that she left the house at around 9 pm to play, but did not return when her family called her. When they saw she was not there, the girl’s family searched for her and eventually found her in a field near a pond. The statement saw the Bhara Kahu police register a case under sections 377-B (punishment for sexual abuse) and 324 (attempt to commit murder) of the Pakistani Penal Code against unidentified suspects. Forty people were initially arrested, but a further 20 suspects were arrested in connection with the rape case. An officer said that the suspects lived the victim’s home and are between 15 and 45 years old. DNA tests will be conducted. After she went unconscious, they assumed she died and dumped her in a pond before fleeing. The victim and her family’s identity were allegedly revealed when the police’s public relations office invited the media to cover the inspector general of police’s (IGP) visit to the hospital. However, the police denied the claims and said the press was already at the hospital. The also said that the identity of the victim and her family were already revealed by the media and that in the past, the families of rape victims have never objected to their identities being revealed. The girl’s father said his daughter had gone outside with her brother but was left alone when the neighbours asked her brother to buy them bread. The child was found 100 feet from the house. She was taken to Polyclinic but the doctors refused to treat her, claiming that they did not have the required facilities. For over two hours, the girl was left unattended while her family pleaded with doctors to help her. He then took his daughter to PIMS emergency at 1 am. The man said the doctors there also refused to treat his daughter, saying that it was a police matter. The girl was taken to PIMS children’s hospital at 5:30 am where she was eventually treated. The victim’s father called the staff “cruel” for not treating his daughter, adding that in the time it took for her to receive treatment, her condition significantly declined. Dr Khawaja denied the claims that the girl was refused treatment. He stated the delay was due to a shortage of beds. He said an inquiry will be conducted if the girl’s father files a complaint with the hospital administration. Dr Sharif Astori, of Polyclinic, also denied the accusations and said: “We have not had such a complaint.” The 60 suspects remain in custody and are being interrogated over their alleged roles in the rape case.