Aaron Wan-Bissaka’s impressive start to his Manchester United career continued as he was named our Man of the Match after the 1-0 International Champions Cup win against Inter Milan, According Manutd.com. The 21-year-old put in another stellar performance at right-back, constantly getting forward during his 63 minutes on the field and also putting in a number of timely challenges to stop the Nerazzurri from counter-attacking. Wan-Bissaka, who signed for United from Crystal Palace last month, took home 53 per cent of the vote on our Official App as our campaign to regain the trophy we first won in 2014 got off to a flyer. “I thought Aaron was growing and growing in confidence and is getting used to his team-mates. His performance was a good one, as were so many of his team-mates’ performances,” manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said to MUTV after the full-time whistle in Singapore. “Every one of the players today can look back on his performance and say they were happy.” The defender was substituted just after the hour mark, as Solskjaer opted to rotate the majority of his squad with Thursday’s fixture against Tottenham Hotspur in mind. One of the players introduced off the bench, Mason Greenwood, came second in the vote with 43%. The youngster netted the only goal of the game after 76 minutes, curling the ball beyond the reach of Samir Handanovic and into the bottom corner. Axel Tuanzebe – who partnered Victor Lindelof in the centre of defence from the start and barely put a foot wrong – received 4%. “You see the confidence in the kids when they get minutes under their belts and play against very good players,” added Ole. “They play with team-mates, first-team players they have maybe been looking up to and now, suddenly, they’re with them. They’ve great skill, all of them, and I know they’re ready to perform at this level.” Our fourth pre-season game is against Tottenham Hotspur in Shanghai on Thursday at 12:30 BST. As with all the pre-season games, it will be shown live on MUTV.