Owerri – Most Rev. Bennett Christopher I. Okoro, Archbishop and Bishop of Orlu Diocese (Anglican Communion), has urged the Federal Government to reshuffle all commands of the nation’s Armed Forces and restructure them in such a manner as to accommodate all the six geo-political zones of the country.
This, he argued, would tremendously stem the rising tempo of insecurity in the land and also attract interested investors who would fast-tract the nation’s wobbling economy.
Archbishop Okoro, who spoke exclusively to the Daily Independent shortly after the ordination of Deacons and Priests and commissioning of Catechist held at the Cathedral Church of SS Peter and John the Divine, Nkwerre, said: “Our security situation is precarious and with this, no foreign investor can come here and invest.
It is, therefore, imperative for President Muhammadu Buhari to reshuffle the command of the nation’s Armed Forces in such a manner as to include each of the six geo-political zones”.
The cleric warned against the establishment of cattle colonies and ranches in any part of the South-East, stressing that grazing by Hausa/Fulani herdsmen is a private affair that is alien to the Igbo.
While calling on President Buhari to appoint seasoned technocrats into his cabinet to move the nation forward, Archbishop Okoro also sued for the speedy completion of construction work on the second Niger Bridge to ease the transportation difficulties facing commuters. He noted that this would commence across the length and breadth of the country and pleaded for the release of Leah Sharibu still being held by the Boko Haram sect. The Archbishop, who administered the oath of not belonging to secret society by the deacons and catechists gave the New Testament, the letter of order and license to the deacons, saying “take the authority to do the work of a deacons in the church of God committed to your charge”. Rt. Rev. Daniel Nkemjika Olinya- of the Eha Mufu Diocese, Enugu State in his sermon at the service, advised Christians to shun unwarranted blackmail, character assassination and cheap propaganda against their priests, noting that such unholy character exposes the church to public ridicule, hate, contempt and disdain.