The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) yesterday reiterated the need for the Federal Government to reconsider its policies and chart a way forward for the economic recovery of the country. Mr. Babatunde Paul Ruwase, LCCI President, while addressing journalists on ways Federal Government should shape the nation’s economy through impactful policy advocacy and engagements, said efforts should be made by the government to stem the rising debt profile of the country and address issues of inflation, foreign exchange rate, wave of insecurity among others. According to him, “The Debt Management Office (DMO) announced last month that the Federal government would obtain additional foreign loan to the tune of $2.7 billion (N824.82 billion). This development calls for concern bearing in mind that in 3 years, Nigeria’s debt profile rose from $10.32 billion in June 30, 2015 to $22.08 billion as of June 30, 2018. “With this additional loan, the country’s foreign debt would increase and would invariably increase the overall debt portfolio of the country which stood at N24.39trn as at December 31, 2018. Already, the Federal Government proposed to spend a total of N2.14 trillion on debt servicing in the 2019 fiscal year which is 27% of revenue. “We are concerned with the increasing amount meant for debt servicing and is becoming worrisome as more funds that could be used for developmental projects are used to service debts. We expect the government to cut down its debt and seek other ways of raising funds, by rigorously promoting new investments to increase revenue.” Ruwase also stressed the need to tackle the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GPD) status which has continued to decline. “Latest report from the National Bureau of Statistics revealed that Q1 2019 GDP grew by 2.01%. This growth was largely aided by the non-oil sectors, which contributed 90.86 percent to total GDP. The oil sector contributed 9.14 percent to the growth in Q1. “The economy’s performance fell below the 3% growth rate projected in the budget and the 4.5% forecast in the ERGP for 2019. However, when compared to the Q1 2018 performance, where real GDP growth rate stood at 1.89%, the Q1 2019 growth represented an increase of 0.12%. We maintain that this performance is still weak and fragile. It is also below 3% annual population growth as this remains a cause for concern due to its wider implication on inclusive and sustainable growth in the country. “ “However, we expect that the ongoing recovery should gather pace this year, supported by higher private consumption, which should be buoyed by the minimum wage hike, and healthy investment activity amid more accommodative monetary conditions and waning post-election uncertainty. “The slow implementation of reforms, and commodity-price volatility and possible disruptions to oil production however poses key challenges to the outlook,” he said. LCCI congratulated the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) governor on his appointment for a second 5-year term at the helms of affairs in the apex bank. It also acknowledged the various efforts of the CBN in the past five years towards supporting job creation, improving access to credit for MSMEs, intervention in the Agricultural sector, building robust payment system, exchange rate stability and maintaining strong external reserve among others. LCCI President, however, expressed concerns over some policies of CBN. In his words: “As acknowledged by the CBN governor himself, not all efforts put in place in the last five years yielded the intended results. According to him, ‘’everything did not happen as contemplated’’. We therefore see the re-appointment of the CBN governor as an opportunity to reassess some measures put in place to grow the economy in the last 5 years and consolidate or re-strategize.