LAGOS – Gernot Rohr, Super Eagles coach will only decide his future after the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations third place match with Tunisia today. After the game, the coach says he will have a meeting with the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) after which a decision about his future would be taken. The German who has a year left on his contract has been criticised for his tactics and selection of players in the tournament. Ex internationals including Idah Peterside and Segun Odegbami have all called for Rohr’s immediate sack. Speaking to BBC, the 66- year old said he would have a meeting with NFF before making a decision on his future. “There is no hurry because we want to finish third now. We will take a look at my overall results after the third-place match,” Rohr said. “I’m still under contract for another year, so we will see what is decided together. “There are positives for us to look at on this journey, but after this final game we can think and then talk about the future.” He also revealed the team was at a good level despite their semifinal exit and hinted he would give players who haven’t played yet a chance against Tunisia. “The team is already on a good level. After the World Cup, we tried to rejuvenate the team,” he added. “When you’re playing in the semi-final of this big tournament you are already at a very good level. “I also want to see the players who couldn’t play in this tournament yet, to finally have a team where everybody played.” However, Rohr believes that team will learn from their mistakes at the AFCON, especially their 2-1 loss to Algeria. Though, he was hugely disappointed that Super Eagles failed to reach the final, he would, however, look at the positives, believing the young team would learn from their experiences and misgivings. “I think sometimes a little bit of experience cost us in the game,” he told cafonline.com “I think this team has come a long way after making a good World Cup. We can be proud of our performances,” said Rohr who led the Eagles to an AFCON return for the first time since they won the title in 2013. He said that the difference between them and Algeria in the semis was the experience. “We have to work more and we have to learn with this young team. I think sometimes a little bit of experience cost us in the game especially because our midfielders Etebo (Paul) and Ndidi (Wilfred) are very young. “They need to learn better in terms of communicating and pressing the game. These are lessons that we take home and I am sure we will be better. I started this journey when I was appointed to rebuild with young players and we have come from a long way,” he further stated. Looking back at the tie, Rohr was dejected that they could not respond to Algeria’s tactical pressing, saying they made a better second half but were unlucky not to see the game go into extra time. “It was a great fight until the last minute. Algeria had a better first half than us but we came back in the second half. We thought Algeria could be tired in extra time and we could win it. We are sad that we lost of course, but congratulations to Algeria. We won the last game against South Africa late and today we lost late. That is football,” the tactician further added. Nigeria will now shift their focus to Wednesday evening’s third and fourth place play-off match against Tunisia at Al Salam Stadium and Rohr hopes in the least, his players will go back home with a medal around their necks.