Akure – Simeon Borokini, Bishop of Akure Anglican Diocese, has said the suspension of the plan of the federal government to establish Rural Grazing Areas (RUGA) across the country is still suspicious. Borokini said only the abolition of the plan could reduce the tension it had already created in some parts of the country. The Bishop stated this during the First Session of the 13th Synod at Saint Luke’s Anglican Church, Akure, Ondo State capital. He asked the federal government to go and establish RUGA settlements in states in the northern region if it could not do away with the scheme. Borokini warned state governors in the southwest against ceding any part of the region for the implementation of the scheme in order not to incur the wrath of the people. “I am not in support of the suspension. I am advocating that it should be totally abolished. If they want to practise it, let them practise it in the northern part, not in the Southwest. “If they want to practise it in Adamawa, Kano and other northerner states, they should go ahead. But I won’t support practising it in the South West. “Why should they give an expanse of land from our community to strangers? And we don’t know what they have in mind. They may have a hidden agenda which I don’t support. “Considering what we have been experiencing in the last few months, nobody would say he is happy. The recent one about three or four weeks ago, a woman leaving the church with her daughter and going to their house, the Fulani herdsmen captured them. “We also had a recent one between Ikere and Akure. It means that the Federal Government is not doing anything about it. And we cannot continue to keep quiet and leave them to continue to do what they like to do. “That is why I said that any governor that supports RUGA will have himself to blame. Why should they give preference to a particular tribe and a particular trade? “Cattle-rearing is a trade, and we have some of our farmers who are poultry keepers. Why don’t they encourage them? “We have some of our farmers also, they rear sheep and goats, why don’t they encourage them? Why is it only people rearing cows that are to be encouraged? What is special? “And this issue of Fulani herdsmen, I think the Federal Government needs to do something about it. If it gets to a situation where our lives are not safe, we can do without eating cows. There are other meat that we can eat,” he said.