Lagos – The Olowu of Owu Kuta, Osun State, Oba Adekunle Oyelude has charged Nigerians to avoid making uncomplimentary remarks on the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai but rather support him in his quest to assist President Muhammadu Buhari in the war against insurgency and other vices. In a press release which he personally signed, Oba Oyelude, who described Buratai as gallant and patriotic statesman, stated that Chief of Army Staff does not deserve public opprobrium thrown at him, saying the act is capable of demoralising the force on the field. He said that since General Buratai was appointed in July 2015, he had put up demonstrable leadership which, according to him, is responsible for the success so far recorded in the ongoing battle against the insurgency and terrorism in particular. “It is high time Nigerians realise the fact that military operations anywhere in the world require focus and absolute concentration. And in a situation whereby our soldiers are easily distracted to perform through uncomplimentary statements, the result is coming back to us”. No nation can develop in absence of peace. We should rather encourage our soldiers to bring us lasting peace. Nobody should be happy with the spread of crimes. And these security personnel are the ones to tackle the problem,” he said. The Olowu commended President Muhammadu Buhari for retaining The Services Chiefs to complete their assignment, saying the president’s decision is evidence of his confidence in the General’s capability to achieve more results and leave the Armed Forces better than they meet it. The monarch reasoned that President Buhari must have realised that change of military leadership would be counter-productive in the grounds so far covered, hence his retention of the Service Chiefs. “I think what is required at the moment is change of operational approach and not military leadership change “ “The decision to retain the Service Chiefs by the President did not come as a surprise being that he is also a successful military tactician who knows the nitty-gritty involved in operations as those faced by Nigerian army under General Buratai. Mr President knows the significance of continuity on this assignment. I am very happy at this development. It means we are moving close to the end of this insecurity,” he noted. Oba Oyelude, therefore, urged the chief of army staff to not misplace the confidence which President Buhari has reposed in him, calling him to be stiffer in disciplinarian actions where and when necessary because, according to him, discipline makes the military the most respected institution among security organisations world over. “This development means all eyes are on the Service Chiefs to prove President Buhari right that they capable to further meet expectations of his administration. As a traditional ruler, it is part of my responsibilities to commend when necessary and caution when it is also important.  Nigerians should join those of us who see and appreciate the work so far done by our soldiers,” he said. “Lastly, all agents and sponsors of leadership change in the military should be patriotic in reasoning that it is absolutely the prerogative of the president who appointed them in the first place. I implore all Nigerian to Support our Army.