It is not out of place to roll out the drums today to celebrate one of the finest gifts to humanity as Professor Emmanuel Ogujor marks golden jubilee. His worthy life has no doubt been a clear reflection of the resilient Nigerian spirit of never-say-die; a spirit of an abiding faith in possibilities in the face of limitations. Born on July 16, 1969 into the family of Late Idedede ogujor in Agbon-Olomu of Olomu Kingdom in the present day ughelli South Local Government Area of Delta State, young Emmanuel had his primary and secondary education in Benin city , Edo State (Ikoro Primary School and Edokpolo Grammar School) where he performed so exceptionally before proceeding to the University of Benin to study Electrical Engineering. As the prodigy that he has been destined to be , he shone like a million stars. He bagged his first degree in record time and thereafter proceeded for his masters degree in the same institution, specialising in Power Engineering. He was to be absorbed by the University of Benin as a lecturer in the department of Electrical Engineering on account of his sterling performance. He rose, in no time, to become the substantive Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering, haven bagged his Doctorate from the same Institution. He embarked on a lot of far-reaching reforms during his time as the Head of Department while at the same time carrying out a lot of researches to add to the body of knowledge. He thus, in 2013 , attained Professorship at a very youthful age of 44 in a profession which pathway is strewn and ladened with a lot of thorns and barbs. It was the sage, Bernth Lindfors of blessed memory who said that ” The biggest tree in any chosen forest is always clearly visible”. Engr. Prof. Emmanuel Apoyi Ogujor (JP) is a name that resonates with endless and outstanding achievements; an accomplished scholar and a record breaker with good knack for deliverables in any given assignment. It was therefore not surprising that our Executive Governor , Senator (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa with an eagle eye for always getting the best of hands in furtherance of his smart agenda, found him worthy for appointment as the substantive— of the Delta State Polytechnic, Otefe-Oghara in 2017. Two years on, Engr. Prof Emmanuel Apoyi Ogujor has effortlessly proven his mettle as a very dependable Administrator with the needed astuteness and capacity to break new grounds. Some of his achievements are: Entrepreneurship training has since taken the front seat, and today we have Delspo-Otefe paints, soaps , detergents and disinfectants about going commercial. Another commendable reform is in the area of upgrade in ICT with internet connectivity in all the nooks and crannies of the institution as of today. Also all staff now have official email accounts through which the polytechnic now carries out paperless transactions Today , in order to make the learning environment more accommodating and conducive , the construction of a 3000-seater auditorium is in the works , and a couple of new academics programmes have sprung up with many old and new programmes being accredited . These and many more are compelling reforms that have placed the polytechnic on the front burner of national consciousness and reckoning, such that within 2 years of Engr. Prof. Emmanuel Apoyi Ogujor leadership, the Polytechnic is today ranked the best polytechnic in Delta state and the 7th best state polytechnic in Nigeria by no less a body than the regulatory body, National Board for Technical Education, NBTE. These are quite laudable feats that only competent and result-oriented hand can achieve. The euphoria, his infectious and effective leadership and management have ignited in the heart of the people of the host community have crystalised into his adoption as the son of the soil with him been christened OGHENEVWAIRE which translates to “God sent” him forth to restore and build Besides, his accommodating disposition is so endearing that the host community and its immediate neighbours are fully at home with him. Sir, as you mark your golden jubilee today, it is our fervent wish and prayer that you soar higher like the relentless eagle and higher doors shall be opened unto you for greater exploits. Wishing you a very happy birthday and very many happy returns.