Yenagoa – Bayelsa State Police Command and political parties in the state under the aegis of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), on Friday, held a meeting as part of efforts towards ensuring peaceful conduct of the August 10 local government council election in the state.
The parley, which took place at the Police Officers’ Mess in Yenagoa, was attended by chairmen and secretaries of the various political parties and presided over by the Commissioner of Police, Uche John Anozia.
CP Anozia, in his remarks, stressed the need for political actors and their supporters to play by the rules of the game and eschew bitterness, lamenting that previous elections in Bayelsa had been marked by acts of violence and thuggery.
He said that Bayelsa had not impressed him in terms of the activities of hoodlums and bandits as some politicians also procure their services, especially during elections.
CP Anozia said, “We all know that almost always, our elections have always been characterised by bickering, inter-party disputes, thuggery and all forms of violence.
“This is why I called you today to refresh your memories on these negative aspects that characterise our elections; and to crave your indulgence to ensure that you do not engage in anything outside law while participating in the election at hand.”
According to him, the state police command under his watch would not tolerate any acts of violence and criminality before, during and after the local council election.
He, therefore, appealed to the IPAC members to cooperate with the state police command and also have confidence in the ability of the police to protect lives and property at the poll.
“I’m the current Commissioner of Police in Bayelsa State and I would not like to record any violence in this election and the one to come after it (governorship poll on November 16)”, CP Anozia said.
In their separate remarks, Fayeofori Bobmanuel, state IPAC deputy chairman; Charity Kens-Godwin, publicity secretary and Henry Egwe, chairman of NUP, expressed displeasure that the two major parties, PDP and the APC, were not represented at the parley.
It was alleged that the two parties were responsible for most incidents of electoral violence and malpractices recorded in the state because they have financial muscle to hire the services of political thugs.
The IPAC members also called on the state police commissioner to ensure that he and his men that would be deployed for the council election remained non-partisan and shun any temptation to compromise the process.