Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has attributed the success of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State in the 2019 general elections to the unity among party members at all levels.
He disclosed this at the party’s North Central Zonal Executive Meeting at the Nicon Luxury Hotel, Abuja at the weekend.
Bello, who is seeking reelection on the party’s platform in the November 16 governorship election said there was need to maintain stronger bond between the party at the Ward, state, Zonal and national levels for greater success in future election.
“Prior to the last general elections, we made effort to unite all warring parties within the APC in Kogi State. Under my leadership, we have built the party from about two hundred thousand membership to over five hundred thousand membership today and we have been able to work together to strengthen the party”.
“The result of such commitment and unity was the outcome of the general elections in the state where we delivered Mr President, won 2 out of 3 Senatorial seats, 7 out of 9 House Of Representatives seats and 25 over 25 House Of Assembly seats in the state. There is need for us as a party to unite together, to form a stronger bond in order to succeed in any election we contest” he said.
The North Central Zonal Executive also ratified the appointment of Hon Lanre Issa-Onilu who replaced Hon Bolaji Abdullahi as National Publicity Secretary of the APC.
The meeting which was attended by the Deputy Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, Hon Ahmed Wase, the Governor of Plateau State and Chairman, Northern Governors’ Forum, Barrister Simon Lalong, Governor of Nasarawa, Abdullahi Sule, Niger State Governor , Abubakar Sani Bello, and Deputy Governor of Kwara State, Kayode Alabi and other executives called for regular meetings in order to strengthen the party.
Also speaking at the event, Wase said that the party must not leave any stone unturned for it to secure victory in the November 16 gubernatorial election in Kogi State.
He said the entire party structures and all elected members of the party shall move to Kogi immediately campaign window was declared open.
While congratulating the Governor Bello for the feat the party attained under his leadership in the last election, Wase said the governor has distinguished himself as a loyal and committed party member and such, total support must be given to the APC in Kogi ahead of the gubernatorial election in that state.