Kaduna – Osita Aboloma, the Director General of the Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON), has boasted that his organisation would not rest on its oars in ridding Nigeria of substandard products.
Osita, who called on all stakeholders to support them in achieving same, said this during a Stakeholders’ Collaboration: Tool For Zero Substandard Products, held in Kaduna on Wednesday.
The Director General said the organisation was enforcing compliance through various standards like MANCAP, SONCAP and other logos on products to let customers know difference between substandard and counterfeit products and the original.
Osita, who was represented by the Regional Coordinator North West of SON, Alhaji Abubakar Abba, cautioned Nigerians against endangering themselves and their loved ones by patronising fake or substandard products.
While presenting a paper, the National President Of National Association Of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Chief Increase Uche, suggested that the enlightenment and sensitization campaign should be sustained.
He reminded that the role of SON in preventing substandard products was crucial, and called for the inclusion of SON at the ports to prevent influx of such substandard products.
The president of NAGAFF added that compromise by bank officials portended serious danger as it related to imports.
“SON should lend support to Nigerian Shippers’ Council in reducing substandard products or cargo through CTN.
According to him, “FG should speed up implementation of Single Windows Facility, whereby all agencies of government, SON can sit in their offices and make inputs.
“SON is expected to do more and ensure synergy with other agencies especially the Nigerian Customs.”
Also in his presentation, National Vice President FSM, Dr. Farinto Kayode Collins, advised that all Nigerians be compelled to collaborate with SON to stamp out substandard products from the country.
“Please be informed that the hazard/adverse effect of substandard goods on our economy, health cannot be quantified.
“Let alone, the preponderance members of our citizens that have been killed, maimed as a result of use of these products.
“We shall be playing our roles in national interest, if we all agree to collaborate as stakeholders to stamp out substandard goods in our economy,” Dr Kayode advised.