Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, CON, also known variously as Ezebunwo Nyesom Wike, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, Nyesom Ezebunwo Wike or Nyesom Wike, is a Nigerian politician, lawyer and the incumbent governor of Rivers State. He is an Ikwerre from Rumuepirikom in Obio-Akpor, Rivers State. What many don’t know or understand about the Rivers State governor is that he is a dogged fighter. He has fought several battles to seal the efforts of his opponents since he ventured into partisan politics at the age of 25 years. In 1999 (20 years ago), Wike took one of his political battles to the Supreme Court to uphold his election as the chairman of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area. The apex court declared him winner on April 4, 1999. This is the story. During the selection of the chairmanship candidates in 1998, many of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members wanted him as chairman. He then joined the race in the PDP. About eight aspirants emerged. Along the line, five of them dropped out and the race was left for him, Tony Egwurugwu and Sam Rogers Ichenwo. At the party primaries, Wike scored 16 votes to emerge as the PDP’s chairmanship candidate. His name was sent to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) by the party secretariat. INEC issued Wike forms 001 and 002 to show that he was the rightful candidate sponsored by the party. On November 20, 1998, INEC screened and cleared him. The State Security Services (SSS) also vetted his papers and cleared him. On November 25, five days after his screening, something curious happened. A letter purportedly written by INEC to the PDP in the state came, directing the party to substitute Wike with Ichenwo who lost in the primaries. Ironically, Ichenwo was not given forms 001 and 002 as required in Decree 36 of 1998. INEC too, did not issue form 003, which is a certificate of clearance to Wike or even form 004 to disqualify him. Rather, Ichenwo who did not possess the first two forms was issued form 003. Having sensed that something was amiss somewhere, Wike cleverly kept quiet and the electioneering campaigns continued. The election came and the PDP won. Wike then took his challenge to the election petition tribunal. Cyprian Elechukwu, the Alliance for Democracy (AD) chairmanship candidate in the local government area also challenged INEC at the election tribunal, arguing that INEC never had any candidate for the election, therefore he should be returned unopposed. Surprisingly too, Cyprian Wike, the candidate of the All Peoples Party (APP), also went to court, saying that Ichenwo was never a candidate for that election. The APP later withdrew its case, while that of the AD was dismissed for lack of merit. That of PDP brought by Wike was later struck out because the matter was an intra-party issue. For this reason, Wike headed to the Court of Appeal, Port Harcourt, averring that the election tribunal erred by saying it had no jurisdiction over the case because it was an intra-party one. The Court of Appeal observed that it was strange for Ichenwo to hold Form 003 without getting Forms 001 and 002. For this reason, the Court of Appeal ordered for a fresh election to be conducted in the local government area for the three political parties. When INEC fixed the date for the bye-election, Ichenwo went to court, claiming to be the duly elected chairman for Obio/Akpor local government area. He also claimed that “INEC should not conduct any election that will have Wike stand as chairmanship candidate for the local government area.” The administrative secretary of PDP in Rivers State testified that “we never presented Ichenwo as our candidate.” Not satisfied, Ichenwo moved to the Federal High Court. There, Wike’s lawyer also argued that “the Court of Appeal already struck out the case, so the Federal High Court which is a lower court lacked powers to rule on the case. Again, Ichenwo proceeded to the Court of Appeal, which struck it off and allowed the bye-election to be conducted for the three candidates of the political parties.” Wike won. He was subsequently sworn-in on May 31, 1999 by Peter Odili, the then governor of Rivers State. Again, Ichenwo took his case to the Supreme Court and lost. Wike was elected twice as the Executive Chairman of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area. He served his two terms in office from 1999 to 2002 and 2004 to 2007. Between October 26, 2007 and May 28, 2011, Wike served as the Chief of Staff, Government House, Port Harcourt and was appointed the Director-General of Governor Amaechi’s re-election Campaign Organisation. On July 14, 2011, Wike was subsequently appointed and sworn-in as the Honourble Minister of State for Education. Following a cabinet shake-up, Wike emerged as the Supervising Minister of Education on September 12, 2013. On December 8, 2014, PDP delegates from all the 23 Local Government Areas of Rivers State unanimously voted for Wike as the party’s governorship candidate for the 2015 election in the state. On April 3, 2019, INEC declared Wike winner of the governorship election in the state. The Returning Officer for the election, Teddy Adias, who made the declaration at the head office of INEC in Port Harcourt, said, Wike, who was the PDP candidate, polled 886,264 votes, while his African Alliance Congress (AAC) counterpart, Biokpomabo Awara, garnered 173,859 votes. Awara was supported by the former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which did not field any candidate during the election. Declaring Wike winner, Adias said the governor satisfied the requirements of the law. Speaking shortly after he was declared winner, Wike dedicated his victory to God and to those who lost their lives during the 2019 elections in Rivers State. The governor won in 19 local government areas out of the 21 that were declared while Awara won in two LGAs; Akuku-Toru (his LGA) and Oyigbo LGA. Wike showed an overwhelming strength in his Obio/Akpor Local Government Area, where he polled 281,161 votes, while Awara scored only 7,495 votes. He also scored high votes in Andoni Local Government Area where the National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus, hails from. Surprisingly, Wike also won in Ikwerre LGA, the council area of Amaechi. Nyesom Wike is the man to beat, any day, in Rivers politics, because he holds the ace.