LAGOS – Apostle Little David FOC of Save The Word Evangelical Love Ministry, has predicted that former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, will emerge victorious at the election tribunal. The cleric averred that Abubakar was the man chosen by God to lead the country. The Asaba, Delta State-based pastor told Saturday INDEPENDENT that God revealed to him before the February 23, 2019 general elections that the former Vice President would win the presidential election, adding that the incumbent government would resist the result with all the authorities within their disposal and foist itself on the people. According to him, at the end, the will of God will manifest as Abubakar will be declared winner by the court as the man God ordained to clean the tears of poor Nigerians who call upon him daily. Apostle FOC also stated that the plan by the Federal Government to create RUGA settlements for cattle herders across the country would not see the light of the day, saying God’s plan for Nigeria is to have multiple religion and no religion would dominate the country. He also called politicians in the South- South and South- Eastern parts of the country to put their house in order and ensure that evil plan of some persons in the north to set the country on fire do not prevail. The man of God predicted further that Senator Dino Malaye would emerge winner of the Kogi State Governorship election as the candidate anointed by God to govern the state. “Most things God said to me which I shared with you through my prophesies happened. The former Governor of Enugu State, Chimaraoke Nnamanni has come back to power, and his dead political career have been revived. For those of us still in dismay, please be reassured that our dear country has not yet seen the end of the February 23, 2019 General Election results. The hidden truth surrounding the presidential election will be revealed. Atiku Abubakar will soon be declared the legitimate winner of the concluded presidential general election, said the lord of host and, and the will of man will fail. The mandate of the people of Nigeria will come to pass. Let’s keep faith, and hope alive and ever burning, and never be dismayed. “Nigeria can never and will never be a country of one religion. The plans of some of our evil leaders will not stand. For God Almighty has said so. I therefore call on all our beloved brethren both home and abroad to stop panicking and infuse their energies into fasting and praying. For the counsels of the ungodly and blood thirsty leaders will not stand. Nigerians, do not bother yourself over RUGA settlement, it shall not stand. “I need to let us to know that the God’s chosen servant in the Kogi State gubernatorial election to come is none other than Senator Dino Melaye. God will use him to restore hope, peace and joy back to Kogi people. No wonder God’s chosen people always face persecutions treats and condemnation.” He also admonished Christians to stop condemning men of God, saying that the presiding Pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly ( COZA ) Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, could be innocent of the rape allegations leveled against him . “I want to use this medium to plead Nigerian to please desist from abusing, insulting, and accusing the presiding Pastor of COZA, Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo. It was a gang up and setup aimed at bringing and pulling down the reputation and the name of the renounced church of God. The very day God called him, none of us was there.”