He owns a bank, controls many international franchises in Nigeria and has shares worth billions of naira in blue chip companies — but, you are more likely to run into him on a commercial flight than a private jet. You could even meet him sitting comfortably in economy class when he cannot get seats in business. He was probably the only Nigerian governor who regularly flew commercial flights while in office. Former Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi, who was the running mate of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the February 23, 2019 election, was 58 on July 19, 2019. He is an unconventional African man, at least in terms of his family size. Obi, who was governor from 2007 to 2014, has only two children, a daughter and a son. According to Wikipedia, their names are Gabriella Nwamaka Frances Obi, who is two years older than her brother, Gregory Peter Oseloka Obi. For a man from his generation and his cultural background, it is a bit unconventional that Obi has only two children. He was born on July 19, 1961, graduated from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, in 1980 with a degree in Philosophy. The former governor is a Catholic Church Papal Knight of the Order of St. Sylvester. Obi spent eight years and seven months as the governor of Anambra State. He was sworn in as governor of Anambra State on March 17, 2006. However, on November 2, 2006, he was impeached after seven months in office. He took the matter to court, won and was reinstated on February 9, 2007. Another election took place in 2007 that brought in Andy Uba. Obi went to court to argue that he didn’t complete his four-year tenure. The court agreed with him and said his tenure ought to end in March 2010. After his dramatic first term, Obi contested for the position of governorship again and won a second term in office, which ended on March 7, 2014. He was appointed the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission by former President Goodluck Jonathan in April 2015. Accounts of Peter Obi’s career in business, politics and societal development have been recorded severally, but the beauty of his life and times is that the accounts will always bear repetition. One of a few state governors to be conferred with the national award of Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON), he has been recognised variously by several people and organisations not known to be wasteful with commendation. They include: Pope Benedict XVI; Pope Francis I; Zik Leadership Prize in Good Governance; Bill Gates & Melinda Foundation; West Africa ICT Development Award; the EU, DfID, World Bank, BoI; and UNICEF.