OWERRI – Rt. Hon.  Emeka Ihedioha, the Imo state governor, has assured of qualitative education and a healthy learning environment for students and management of the Imo State University, Owerri. The governor, who was taken round the facilities, also directed the constitution of an Environment Transformation Commission for the university to ensure a clean environment, even as he and charged the students to imbibe the culture of cleanliness. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Governor Ihedioha, who disclosed this when he paid an unscheduled visit to the university in Owerri, lamented the menace of flood in the campus and the Owerri capital city. Addressing the school management and students, he tasked them on the need to continue to be patriotic and never to give up on the state, adding that his administration was committed to rebuilding the state and restoring her lost glory. “I have come for an assessment of the university to see the state of infrastructure and facilities. My attention has been drawn to the menace of flood within the campus, which I consider a huge threat. I have gone round and seen some buildings submerged by flood.” “We will arrest the problem of flooding here and in Owerri in general. To this effect, I have directed the Vice Chancellor, to set up a team of engineers in the university to identify the root cause, to tackle the issue.” He pointed out that he had personally seen some defects in some projects within the campus, noting that the level of work was commendable, even as he identified some key technical issues that were life threatening with a promise that a professional team from the government would be assigned to look into the defaults. On the complaints made by the students over illegal levies and extortion by lecturers, the governor set up a committee headed by Prof. Jude Njoku, with Prof Viola Onwuliri and four other students, who he charged to report back to him. Ihedioha promised to return to the school to address the issues after the committee had submitted their report, even as he admonished  the students to  remain focused and be good ambassadors of the state.