Master Kenneth Ogbole and Miss Angela Okonkwo have emerged the maiden prom King and Queen of Nigeria’s first-ever Afrocentric Prom concert Tagged “Afroprom”, an official has said. The J. Vanni Global Creative Director, Mobola Abiru disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen in Lagos on Monday. According to her, they were each voted in by the audience from a shortlist of three, which was selected from hundreds of entries. Ogbole recently graduated from St Gloria’s college, Ikeja and Okonkwo from the Apex brilliant academy, Alimosho. “The event organised by J. Vanni Global has been highly anticipated since it was announced in May and it saw thousands of students listing their expectations for the night on social media, as they waited breathlessly for a historic event. “This is also what we always wanted to do: create a platform for these teens and young adults to mingle and network freely, learning key life values yet having the time of their lives. “We are proud of this initiative and how great this turned out to be and to crown it all, the emergence of the Afroprom King and Queen. “In addition to their star prizes, the prom King and Queen will also enjoy an exclusive lunch with a celebrity act next weekend,” she said. She said that the Afrocentric Prom night was lit up by performances from Teni, Rema, Joeboy and Fireboy among others. She said that in addition to music performances the crowd was also treated to comedy from ace comedian Ushbebe, alongside electric dance renditions by celebrity dance group Dream Catchers, and Don Flex & the Extigate team. Abiru added that apart from entertainment, the audience also listened to inspirational speeches from popular musician-turned politician Banky W, multi-award winning media personality and Red Media co-founder, Debola Williams. She said that also Bada Akintunde Johnson, country manager of Viacom International Media Networks Africa spoke to the audience. She said that Mrs Adebimpe Ihekuna, Group Head, Products & Markets Development Group, Polaris Bank Limited, addressed the teaming audience on seven important keys required to drive unimaginable success. Speaking on getting students from over 100 secondary schools to attend, Assistant Creative Director and Road Manager, J. Vanni Global, Adebisi Odubela said they had to visit every school because they wanted these teens to know that they were serious about creating a platform for them.