While we wait for Trump to speak in historic Jamestown, Virginia, a recap of his comments from earlier.
Before departing from the White House, Trump said the black legislators planning to boycott his appearance at a Virginia event commemorating the 400th anniversary of the first meeting of the House of Burgesses are acting “against their own people.”
Trump went on to say that African Americans “love the job” he’s doing and are “happy as hell” with his recent comments disparaging the majority black city of Baltimore and its congressman, Elijah Cummings. This follows his attacks on four progressive congresswoman of color, who he told to “go back” to their home countries, even though three were born in the US and all are US citizens.
Rather than attend the ceremony in Jamestown, members of Virginia’s legislative black caucus placed a wreath honoring deceased black lawmakers at Virginia’s State Capitol, according to the Associated Press. They also plan to hold a ceremony at the Lumpkin’s Slave Jail site in Richmond, where slaves were imprisoned and sold. Delegate Lamont Bagby told the AP that the lawmakers chose to boycott Trump’s speech in Jamestown because they want to reflect on the good, the bad and “the ugly” of the last 400 years, including slavery. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The White House blocked a State Department intelligence analyst from delivering testimony on the national security implications of climate change to Congress because the analysis “did not comport with the administration’s position on climate change,” the analyst wrote in an editorial for the New York Times.
Rod Schoonover, who worked as a senior analyst in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the State Department until he resigned in protest earlier this month, said he was allowed to deliver a brief oral testimony to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, but the White House refused to approve his written testimony for entry into the permanent Congressional record.
That intervention prompted Schoonover’s resignation. In the editorial he writes: The bottom line of written testimony was this: “Climate change will have wide-ranging implications for US national security over the next 20 years.” …
In blocking the submission of the written testimony, the White House trampled not only on the scientific integrity of the assessment but on the analytic independence of an arm of the intelligence community. That’s why I recently resigned from the job I considered a sacred duty, and the institution I loved.
The Guardian has extensively covered climate change and the administration’s “war on science”.  