Alhaji Abubakar Idris , first son of the former governor of Kogi state Ibrahim Idris is one of the aspirants for the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State. In this interview with JULIUS ATABOR, he speaks on why he is in the race and his plans for the people if elected. Excerpts: Why are you interested in becoming the governor of Kogi state? A lot of things have happened to the state that are not palatable to the people. There are lots of differences to the type of Kogi that we used to have. I came to Kogi where salaries were not an issue. Pensions and gra­tuities not an issue either. Kogi used to be among top class states where we have an educational system, health sectors that were working efficiently. Sadly in the last decade, these institutions have declined . At this point somebody has to come in to redirect and put them right. These are the forces that necessitated me to vie for the ticket of my party, PDP to salvage the situation, for the sim­ple facts that we have to get our state back to where it was before this ad­ministration and should be commit­ted to making things to work again in the state. Recently, some Igala elders did screen­ing of aspirants from the Kogi East and your name was not in the list of successful aspirants. What is your take on this? With regards to the question, I came from a background that does not allow one to disparage elders in the public. With regards to whatever they might have done, even though I have my reservations, I was not cut out to disrespect elders. They are elders and they have done what they think was right. But I for one, still remain focused and continue to do the needful because, my party PDP has not disqualified me in any­way and until my party does that , I will still stay focused and try to achieve my goals of being number one citizen of Kogi state and for the elders, they are my elders and I have tremendous respect for them. It is assumed in many quarters that your father, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris want to impose you on the people of the state. How true is that? The issue is overflogged. At this stage of one’s life, there is no way my father will impose me on the people of Kogi state . Like I said before, If I was going for a trial , will they ask Alhaji Ibrahim Idris to come and stand for me?. Am I not eligible to vote and be voted for? Does the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for­bid me from contesting? Do I have the qualifications and standard for this office, and if these questions are in the affirmation, I don’t see any reason why people should be saying that it is my father that is imposing me on the state. Does it mean that all Kogi people are that daft and stupid not to know what is right?. Are they saying that the former President of US, George Bush Senior imposed George Bush Junior on the American people or the Ghandis of India imposed their children on the people?. It was what the people saw in their fathers and grandfathers and see the same in them that made the people to vote for them and Kogi should be not be different. Recently some traditional rulers from the state led by the Attah Igala HRM Michael Ameh Oboni went to President Muhammadu Buhari to endorse the governor Alhaji Yahaya Bello, is this not a threat to your ambition?. In a democracy, everyone has a right to his opinion and the roy­al fathers inclusive. Their action was not strange. The Governor is their paymaster and he chooses what he want them to do for him. Their purported endorsement was not in anyway a threat to me. I’m focused and determined to win with endorsement of Bello or not. How their endorsement will translate into electorate voting for him is the issue The last Presidential, National and State House of Assembly elections were characterised with violence and thug­gery especially in Kogi East , are you not disturbed by the trend? The armed violence during the elections in Kogi East requires ur­gent attention by all lovers of de­mocracy. To me what should be done is awareness creation. They should be able to own their actions. We need to sensitize them that what one cannot attain through peace cannot be gotten through violence. More awareness is needed to educate the people on the need for peaceful election and not to be afraid to come home during elec­tions. Why should I be afraid , afraid of who?. Kogi is my state and I have what it takes to govern kogi state, however, all I know is that when it is your time things will fall in place for you. Kogi state is no doubt an agrarian state, but of recent the government seemed not to pay attention to Agriculture , what will you do to change the narratives? Frankly speaking Kogi state is blessed with abundant arable lands that stretch across the three senatorial zones and each zone has crops with comparative advantage that need government massive in­vestment. For instance, Kogi East has com­parative advantage in Cashew. The state will partner with investors , give them tax incentives , ask them to employ our people . And as the investors inflow increases , govern­ment will make money. It is unfortunate, although, that Kogi east is the leading cashew pro­ducer in the country ,which gener­ate about 70% of the nation’s reve­nue from cashew . It only exported the nuts without adding value. Kogi west have advantages in the rice cultivation. The Omi dam will be optimized. We will give mas­sive incentives for the rice farmers, and I can assure you in the very few years of our administration, Kogi will pride itself as the number one rice producing state in Nigeria. As for the Central , Benni seed, which is in high demand in the interna­tional market , we shall give them assistance to grow and add value to its production We will make kogi the hub of agri­cultural products in the country. We will revamp existing dams and create new ones across the state . At the side of the dams we will build ponds. We will give them to the youths to man­age . We will irrigate the dams for farmers for all seasons farming. We will ensure that Agriculture become the mainstay of the state economy.