Chief Uche Njoku, pioneer Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Mayoral Affairs in Governor Rochas Okorocha’s government in Imo State and Founder/President General, Igbo Peoples Movement (IPM), is also Founder and President General of Imo Zurukwuo, a coalition of stakeholders constituting the Third Force for the 2019 general elections in Imo State. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on activities of Governor Emeka Ihedioha so far, even as he touched on other current national issues. Excerpt: How do you see the emergence of former House of Representatives Deputy Speaker, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, as the Imo State governor? It is God-designed. His emergence is divine. God did His mathematics for us. Some of us fought tooth and nail for what is happening today in Imo State. We fought under the umbrella of Imo Zurukwuo, the apex-socio-political group for the Imo people, to ensure that Rochas Okorocha’s ‘familiotocracy’ was erased out in Imo politics. Okorocha has nothing to show in terms of good governance. Everything, including his free education, was of poor quality. He was leading us in unseen chains. Under Rochas Okorocha, there was no clear-cut agenda for the administration. His due process was zero. He believed he had style, but he was doing abracadabra for Ndi Imo. Only those who could not reason, or were gluttonous, followed him after knowing the fact. But, with Ihedioha, we see a man positively desperate to do something meaningful for Ndi Imo. There is this fire under the belly I see in him to prove that government can put smile and confidence on the people. What agenda would you proffer for Governor Emeka Ihedioha administration in Imo State? Officially, for those of us in Imo Zurukwuo, our agenda for any governor is to work positively for the good of Ndi Imo and allow the people to make positive impute. We believe that Imo belongs to all of us. Every Imo son and daughter should contribute positively for the growth of Imo State. It is not only the duty of the governor. We can do so in terms of paying our taxes, going to work early to increase productivity, criticising government positively and constructively. We should also ask ourselves what we can do for government and ensure that we do it. Imo State is a collective ownership by all of us, which gives us the power to go against government if they go against us. The government should know that the people matter and must come first. Ihedioha has interacted with us in Imo Zurukwuo. I see him as a man who respects himself. He is serious minded on issues that affect the state. Specifically, those things we are saying, like roads, he has already started to do them. For instance, he has started with Toronto Junction. On education, he has set up a committee to look into the status of the tertiary institutions newly established by the previous administration. This will have to do with the quality of education. Other roads include MCC/Toronto Junction in Owerri zone, Mgbidi-Uguta road in Orlu zone and some roads in Okigwe Road zone. You can see a detribalised governance, as against what some past governors introduced into the political lexicon of Imo State. With this style, he is already establishing himself as a governor with larger and humane heart. He is not one of those past governors who deliberately wanted every ministry and parastatals to be headed by members of his zone, while the first three positions of that same organisation would be headed from people of the same zone. What an ancient hatred and pettiness! Still on roads, he is also attending to Assumpta Control Post axis and Polytechnic road, leading to FUTO – Obinze road. I like this speed and accuracy of Ihedioha’s administration. Let me also advise Ndi Imo. It is easy to destroy. Eight years of destruction by the past government is not a joke. We should be sensitive about that. It will take some time for Emeka Ihedioha to correct the misdeeds of Okorocha. We should be patient with him. I pray that he will not derail or encourage negative influences around him in any manner. Such people have a way of sneaking into good men with good purpose. In terms of improving the state’s finances, what advice would you offer the Ihedioha administration so it can deliver good governance to the people of Imo State? Another vital area is that resources accruing to Imo State will not be sufficient for the myriads of problems facing the state. Governor Emeka Ihedioha should, as a matter of urgency, start welcoming those who can increase the state’s revenue. He should run the state as a business that will make profit, as such profit will be used for development and social services. Such social services include quality education, soup kitchen and medical services for the aged and weak to eat and take their medication and be healthy, especially our retirees who served Imo State meritoriously, first intervention hospitals, first class diagnostic centre, which I call ‘The Cure’. I found out that what is killing our people is false diagnoses. Once you know the problem, the cure and treatment will be provided. Without proper diagnosis, our people’s bodies had become experimental bodies for doctors, their nurses and pharmacists, which automatically put such people to departure hall, which leads to deaths. This new revenue generation drive requires innovation and creativity that may not have existed before. Those that are called the ‘aioocoocas’ of Imo State must be involved in this struggle to increase the receivables of Imo State. These people practice those things they do not teach you in Harvard Business School. They are creators themselves. I take this opportunity to tell the governor to please seek those that may increase the state’s receivables and invite them. He may not find them in any political circle. They are not usual. But, they are there. Their minds work faster. They are quick in thinking. They are solution providers. What is your take on the allegation of witch-hunting of former Governor Rochas Okorocha being made against Governor Emeka Ihedioha and Uche Onyeagocha, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG)? Those people saying that are talking gibberish. Gov Emeka Ihedioha and Uche Onyeagocha, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), are simply doing their jobs. Are they saying they should not find out what went wrong in Imo State? If they don’t do that, I will be the first to criticise them and go opposition full time. Are those people saying such things are not reasonable? Are they stupid? If someone comes to your house, rapes your wife, kills your children and steals your property, will you allow such people to go free? Won’t you find out how they broke the door and entered your house and did what they did to forestall future occurrence? While trying to do that, someone is questioning your action. I suspect such people criticising Governor Emeka hedioha and the SSG, Uche Onyeagocha, are from the same zone of the former Governor Rochas Okorocha, hence they are defending him. Are we now reducing governance to this pedestrian level? Is it the way government is supposed to be run? Is it better we continue ‘Jango The Bastard’ kind of administration that was recently introduced into the administration of Imo State, which is illegal? If the new Imo government did not do what they are doing, that means they will continue in the style of the former administration. I will be the first to go into the trenches, to criticise them and go into full time opposition against them. The Miyetti Allah recently requested to establish vigilante groups in South East communities. How do you see this request? It is insulting and not necessary. A Fulani man cannot come to my village to guard me. Do they know my village? Vigilante is like community policing. Does he know the criminals in that community and their ways? Does he know the culture of the people? They should not think of introducing their vigilante in South East because it will not work. For me, I think it is a joke. They are being funny. Although the Federal Government has suspended its planned establishment of Ruga settlements for cattle breeders, would you say it is a good idea? If the grazing land issue should take place, it should be a state of affair of where those land belong, with a clear official guideline or policy that such land can only be used for grazing and the allocation by the state governments to Nigerians. It should not be discriminatory. It can be allocated to any Nigerian, be it Yoruba, Hausa, Fulani, Igbo or Ijaw, etc. Such a person must be a certified Nigerian so that foreigners should not use it as infiltration avenue, which may affect our peace and security. It is true that other countries’ ranching policy is tidier, while Nigeria is still doing grazing, which has caused us these problems. As a businessman, I am looking at a situation where we can convert our disadvantage to advantage, economically speaking. Why can’t businessmen partner with the cattle rearers, be it Yoruba, Hausa, Fulani or Igbo and see how we can make our meat the stable consumption meat in western economies, which is part of the diversification of the economy we are talking about, and a way of earning foreign exchange that the country needs. You know, oil will soon phase out. I know somebody will ask me how this can be done. Look at it this way. We are working so hard chasing and grazing the cattle around, covering several miles which automatically means that out cattle are exercising and giving us lean meat, which is high priced in western economies. Of course, they are healthier and sweeter because their food is organic, while in the western economies, their cows are quarantined, eating processed foods, which are not healthy, but fattening. What stops the Pascal Dozies, the Odenugas, the Otedolas, the Dangotes, the Peter Obis, or other patriotic business men forming a consortium or individually getting involved with the cattle rearers under partnership ventures, increase the value of these meat by processing and packaging for export to the western economies for higher profit? Do you think this will be feasible? Why not? Indeed, it will be an added advantage to Nigeria. You can imagine when our beef becomes the popular acceptable beef in the western economy. You will imagine the foreign exchange it will earn the country. You can imagine more jobs and wealth creation it will bring to this country because of more cattle demand for export. I have been saying that we have been working hard to create a sweeter and healthier meat, but, we have not been smart enough to market it to the western economies to make more profit for our country and ourselves in a way that that will bring about a good economy. We should stop ethnic chauvinism and manipulations and think of how to bring about an organised economy. We are busy with crab and ethnic chauvinism mentality, destroying ourselves instead of coming together to form an organised economy, where everybody will benefit. We are busy eating each other up. What a shame! The government should start punishing those who promote ethnic chauvinism and recognise them as economic saboteurs and terrorists of this country, not minding the ethnic group they come from. What philosophy of leadership would you advocate for Nigerian leaders? We should start practising what the first Nigeria’s President, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, said, ‘Nigeria first before your ethnic group’. It was true that past leaders were practising their ethnic group first before Nigeria except Zik of Africa, who saw the bigger picture. The inadequacies of ethnic leaders kept us where we are today.  Of course, where we are today is not something to be proud of. Dr Azikiwe saw the bigger picture, but those leaders saw the smaller picture. That is why we are small today in economy, human rights, governance style, rule of law, etc. If we want to start getting it right, any person who sees himself as a leader must start practising Zik’s philosophy of Nigeria first, before ethnic group. If there is any ethnic chauvinism from the leaders by a member of any ethnic group, the leader should punish the member of his ethnic group first before those from other ethnic groups to serve as deterrent. He will be seen as practising Nigeria first before his ethnic group. This will be a good source of example to the citizenry.