ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Friday disclosed that it would take over affairs in the Edo and Bauchi Houses of Assembly after concurring with the decision of the Senate on the matter.
Hon. Yusuf Gagdi, who briefed the press on behalf of the House’s Adhoc Committee on Media and Publicity, said that the House was still aware of its decisions on the matter but is constrained to wait for the outcome of Senate’s actions on the matter.
The House said that upon concurrence with the Senate, it would “invoke Section 11, subsection 4 of the 1999 constitution as amended, that donates the powers to the National Assembly, to do the needful.”
Speaking on the standing committees’ announcement by the Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, Gagdi conveyed that the leadership has been very magnanimous to the minority parties in the distribution of the committees.
This is coming to pacify reports that the majority All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House has failed to keep to its promised 60 Committees slots to the minority parties, especially, as assured by the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) during the Speakership campaign.
During the campaign, Abdulmumin Jibrin, Director General of Gbajabiamila/Ease campaign, had conveyed that 60 Committee slots would be given to the PDP following the arrangement to secure their support.
However, in sharing the committees, only 21 Committees headship were allocated to PDP members, with 30 deputy committees’ heads, but Gagdi said that four committees’ headships were also given to other minority parties.
He disclosed that a total of 58 slots of both committees’ headships and deputies actually went to the PDP and other minority parties, stressing that the Speaker has done well.
Concerning all the earlier Adhoc committees, he said that they were still subsisting until the end of their timelines, before the standing committees would take over from them.
Gagdi said that there is no conflict of interests between the earlier Adhoc committees and the just announced standing committees, stressing that while the standing committees are awaiting inauguration possibly after the recess on September 17, 2019, the Adhoc committees would still be carrying out their functions.