ADO-EKITI – The Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi, has described corruption in the judiciary as the worst crime that can be committed against humanity. Oba Alabi, who is a first-class traditional ruler in Ekiti State, therefore, admonished Nigerian judges to live above board and discharge their duties with fear of God. The monarch gave the charge in Ilawe-Ekiti during the inauguration of the Ilawe-Ekiti Judicial Division of the state High Court in the town by the Chief Judge, Justice Ayodeji Daramola. The former diplomat cum traditional ruler also linked the various problems confronting the nation to corruption in the judiciary. According to him, many of the crises bedeviling the country could have been resolved naturally, if the culture of justice and fairness were deeply rooted in our system. The monarch said the construction of an ultra-modern high court will reduce the culture of self-help and speedy dispensation of justice. Oba Alabi appealed to the Judiciary to work assiduously to regain the confidence reposed in it by Nigerians, saying “justice they say is rooted in confidence”. “There is no virtue so truly great and Godlike as justice. Where there is no justice, there can never be peace. So, justice must be made accessible and affordable to all. “It is, therefore, apposite and appropriate that only a fearless Judiciary can give hope to a common man and the only way to foster peace and unity among people and ensure public order is justice. “A society that is well grounded and founded on the rule of law and devoid of arbitrary use of powers must run a well-defined and established laws, supremacy of the laws, equality before the laws, separation of powers , devoid of corruption and quick dispensation of justice”. The monarch applauded the state government for the gesture, saying this will bring justice close to the grassroots and help them to see judicature as the best way to settle differences rather than is resorting to self-help. Justice Daramola said the gesture was meant to bring judiciary to the footsteps of the rural dwellers. He said the facility will also help in ensuring quick disposition of any suit pending in court and decongest the Ikere division that had jurisdiction over the town in the past. The CJ also warned against resorting to jungle justice, describing it as not only bestial, but obsolete and out fashioned