LAGOS – Few weeks ago, the Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’ Edo, Ewuare II, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to quickly intervene in the festering feud between Godwin Obaseki, the Edo State governor, and Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Benin monarch, who led the Edo State Council of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs on a courtesy visit to President Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, expressed worry over the crisis, stressing that it was getting out of hand and that if not quickly resolved, it might jeopardise the state’s progress. Oshiomhole, after completing his tenure as governor in 2016, did everything to ensure that Obaseki emerged as his successor. Before then, Obaseki was only the head of Oshiomhole’s economic team. He was not among those struggling for the governorship ticket. But, against all odds, he eventually emerged winner of the primaries. It was also said that many party chieftains in the state rejected Obaseki because of their conviction that he would end up not doing their bids. However, few months ago, relationship between the APC National Chairman and his successor turned sour, as the duo have now polarised the Edo State chapter of APC. Their fight, which has taken a new dimension, may in turn affect the chances of the APC in next year’s governorship election in the state. Oshiomhole was said to have become infuriated, after his loyalists who were allegedly unfairly treated by Obaseki, complained that they have been abandoned since the APC chairman left office as governor. Obaseki, on assumption of office as governor, came up directives, among which banned politicians from bumping into the Government House, especially when they don’t have any serious business there, a development which did not go well with majority of party loyalists. At a point, the governor allegedly informed the Edo State APC chieftains and those perceived to be Oshiomhole’s foot soldiers that he is a technocrat who believed that state’s allocation and Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) are meant for the development of the state and not for sharing among politicians. Early this month, the governor sacked eight commissioners, including Oshiomhole’s nephew, from his cabinet and replaced them with his perceived loyalists. Obaseki at a time claimed that some people were unhappy with him because he was working for the ordinary people of Edo. His words: “The people will remain my priority despite the fact that some people wanted me to do otherwise. I will use the money to serve the people, because governance is about the people.” The crisis has heightened to the point that the State House of Assembly has yet to conduct any legislative business since the governor allegedly inaugurated nine out of 24 members at about 10.pm on June 18, without properly issuing an executive proclamation. The crisis has further divided the party and members-elect into two camps. Out of the 24 Assembly members-elect, 19 are said to be loyal to Oshiomhole, while the remaining six are said to be loyal to Obaseki. After the inauguration, members-elect believed to be loyalists of Oshiomohle held a press conference where they described the inauguration as ‘kangaroo-like’. Oshiomhole, in his response to the inauguration, said he was ashamed of the development in his home state. According to him, “You know the law provides for how the House should be proclaimed transparently. The day it’s announced, members-elect are informed of date and time for inauguration. These are clearly spelt out in the Nigerian constitution. Business, parliament is done transparently, they are not a secret cult.” Just a week after the visit of the Oba of Benin to Buhari in Abuja, Obaseki dared those he described as “Abuja politicians” to take over Edo State, if they could. Speaking at a rally held to show solidarity for his administration, the governor boasted that those whose intents were on splitting the state House of Assembly could not stop him. Obaseki at the rally, said, “For those of you who have gone outside to Abuja to say that people from outside should come and invade Edo, to come and seize our House of Assembly, we are waiting for you. “Our focus is to use the money of Edo State to develop you and to develop Edo State, not any individual. What I will not do as a governor, what I will not do as an Edo man, is to allow anybody chop (steal) the little money we have today; that money is to be invested, so we can have a future for our children. That is the fight! That is the struggle. “This struggle started 12 years ago in this town. The struggle has not ended. The struggle has just entered gear two. For those of you who are old enough, what we are going through today, we went through 10 years ago. The same thing, nothing has changed. “It is just unfortunate that some people who were with us when we started that struggle, today, we do not know what has happened to them. But, it is a struggle we will win. Because it is a struggle that says that the people must lead. Democracy is about people, and so, whatever we are doing as a government, is for you. “We will continue to be focused. I did not change cars; I did not buy an official car for myself until after 18 months because we did not have the money and the little money I had, I felt should be used for the people and not the governor.” Though, Obaseki never mentioned names throughout his speech, but his words were so clear that all is not well between him and his predecessor, whom he has refused to accept as a godfather. Few days ago, while receiving the House of Representatives Ah Hoc Committee set up to investigate the Edo Assembly crisis, Obaseki, through his deputy, Philip Shaibu, said Oshiomhole taught him to fight political godfathers, noting that the APC National Chairman started the crusade of fighting Edo godfathers in 2006. Shaibu said Obaseki would also imitate the legacy of fighting godfathers as it favoured the people of the state because the money that used to go the godfathers now goes to the people. According to him, “What we have here is somebody trying to use the House to control the executive. We feel that we have fought godfather. Oshiomhole led us to a strong fight to rescue the state from the hands of godfathers in 2006,” Shaibu said when speaking on Obaseki’s behalf. “We have joined the crusade Oshiomhole started in 2007. We will not go back on the crusade because it is helping Edo people. We can now galvanise the people because they can see roads, they can see schools and infrastructure. This is because the money that used to go the godfathers now goes to the people. “Oshiomhole has taught us to follow the path of the people. He told us to do the needful and make sure we fight the godfathers and take the money back to the people. That is what he taught us and we will not depart from it. The crisis rocking the State House of Assembly is the brain-work of somebody who wants to use the lawmakers to control the governor.” Seidu Oshiomhole, the younger brother to the APC National Chairman, was allegedly caught on tape stating how the 15 lawmakers-elect opposed to the inauguration of the Edo Assembly are being sustained in Abuja. Seidu, a member-elect of the Edo State House of Assembly, was heard in the audio recording saying that many Nigerians had come to their rescue in terms of funding. In the audio, which was in English Language and pidgin, the lawmaker was heard saying, “We are becoming stronger now as who-is-who in Nigeria are now coming to our aid.” Political watchers believe that the current crisis if not properly managed, may cause an exodus of APC members from the state to another political party as some who are in support of the governor, have threatened to leave the APC, if Obaseki is forced out. Charles Idahosa, a former Commissioner for Information and Orientation in the State, on Monday, cautioned the APC, warning that the ruling party risks extinction in the state, if Obaseki is forced to leave. Idahosa, who spoke to newsmen in Benin City, also reiterated his call for the resignation of Oshiomhole as the APC National Chairman, insisting that peace would be restored in the Edo Assembly, if the 15 lawmakers-elect complied with the party’s directive on zoning of leadership in the Assembly. He explained that himself and many other leaders of the party would join Obaseki to other political parties, if the need arisose. Reacting to the claims that the governor was ungrateful to Oshiomhole for bringing him to power, Idahosa clarified that it was Obaseki that first helped Oshiomhole raise millions of naira to enable him contest elections in 2007. “Oshiomhole should resign and stop embarrassing Edo people and the rest of Nigerians. For a National Chairman of a party to lose five states is an insult to our sensibility. Obaseki won all the 24 seats in the Assembly but Oshiomhole media aides gave the credit to Oshiomhole. They are harassing Obaseki so that progress in the state can stop. Nobody has told us what Obaseki has done. “Those lawmakers are now in Abuja engaging themselves in financial bargaining as exposed by Seidu Oshiomhole’s confession on social media. Let them come home and destabilise Edo. If by error or commission, Obaseki is push out, then APC is dead in Edo. “Oshiomhole brought Governor Obaseki to us and told us that he was the engine of his administration. And today, Governor Obaseki has lived up to our expectations and he has actually exceeded the expectations of millions of Edo people. Oshiomhole also chose the Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, he imposed all the commissioners on Governor Obaseki and chose the Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie. So, what is Oshiomhole denying?” Idahosa queried. On his part, Oshiomhole’s predecessor, John Odigie-Oyegun, accused his successor of being the brain behind the travails of Obaseki. Odigie-Oyegun said the crisis rocking Edo State House of Assembly arose from the actions of a ‘godfather’ trying to overheat the polity, adding that the action of Oshiomhole, who was distracting the governor of Edo State, could be likened to anti-party activities. In a recent development, Obaseki alleged that the failure of the APC national leadership to properly investigate issues in the Edo Assembly caused the crisis to linger. The governor, who stated this on Wednesday, when the Senate Ad Hoc Committee set up to look into Edo Assembly crisis visited the state on its fact-finding mission, explained that the crisis would not have degenerated if the leadership of the APC had done same when the matter started. While maintaining that he had performed his constitutional duty by issuing a proclamation letter and that the Clerk of the House undertook the processes as deemed fit, Obaseki explained that there were issues within the legislature and they had gone to the judiciary as the constitution provided for clear Separation of Powers. Also on Wednesday, the House of Representatives asked the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Bichi, to shut down the Edo State House of Assembly, following the adoption of a report of the House Ad-Hoc Committee on the crisis in Edo Assembly. Shortly after considering the report of the panel on Wednesday, the lawmakers adopted it and asked the heads of the police and DSS to seal the Edo State House of Assembly. In line with the recommendations of the report, they agreed that Obaseki, in the interest of peaceful coexistence of the state, should issue a fresh proclamation within one week in line with Section 105(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), stating the date, time and venue of the inauguration, and publish in any national daily and television station. The federal lawmakers also insisted that all actions taken by the 7th Assembly members should be declared null and void pending proper inauguration. Part of the resolution read: “That all members of the Edo State House of Assembly, both those who have been inaugurated and those who have not been inaugurated, should dissolve their factions in the interest of peace and stability of the House, with the view to moving the state forward.” However, in reaction to the order of the federal lawmakers, Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Frank Okiye, stated that a competent court had already restrained the security agencies from taking such an action, insisting that the rule of law was prevailing in the State Assembly. While maintaining that the National Assembly dis not have such powers to issue out such orders, he said the resolution of the House of Representatives was condemnable and should be resisted. With the way things are in the state, the governor seems to be on the offensive and all appears to be quiet in Oshiomhole’s front. But, Oshiomhole has been described as one tireless fighter who cannot be written off so easily. If the APC decides not to return Obaseki for a second term in office, then the decision may spell doom for the party in the state, as the major opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), is waiting to capitalise on any error by the ruling party.