Calabar – Judgment has been reserved by the Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Calabar, Cross River State, in the petition number EPT/CAL/SEN/01/2019 between Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as petitioner against Senator Sandy Onor, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission as 1st, 2nd, and 3rd respondents.
The chairman of the three-man tribunal, Justice Vincent Agbata, on Monday during sitting where the various parties in the case adopted their written addresses, said they will adjourn sine-die and the date for judgment will be communicated to all parties by issuance of hearing notice, publication in the notice board of the tribunal, as well as text messages to the counsels.
A similar decision was taken by the tribunal in another case, with the number EPT/CAL/REP/04/2019, between Victor Abang of the APC versus Chris Agibe of the PDP and the INEC over the National Assembly election for Ikom/Boki Federal Constituency.
Speaking after adopting their addresses in the petition by Senator Ndoma-Egba against Senator Onor, the PDP and the INEC, counsels to the parties in the case, moved to adumbrate their submissions.
First to speak were counsels to the respondents, Patrick Akan for Senator Onor, Joe Agbi for the second respondent being PDP and counsel to INEC, Prof. Jacob Dada.
They all urged the tribunal in their written addresses to dismiss the petition as the petitioner was not excluded in the election of Cross River Central Senatorial District where the PDP candidate was declared a winner by INEC.
Responding, lead counsel to Senator Ndoma-Egba, Emeka Ofodile, yielded grounds for a member of his legal team, Effiom Edem Ekong, to adumbrate on their address. They maintained that the petitioner was duly nominated by his party, the APC, but unlawfully excluded by INEC from due participation in the polls.
Ekong maintained that “the substance of the petitioner’s case is against INEC. The first and second respondents are just nominal parties in the case because they were joined simply because the decision of the court will affect them”.
He added that “the first and second respondent does not have any authority to justify the actions of the third respondent – INEC who unlawfully excluded APC candidates from the election”. And that INEC in their written address admitted receipt of an Appeal Court judgment alongside the lower court order of a Federal High Court, which they acted upon and noted that it was subject to interpretation.