IGBODO – A ravaging flood has submerged a part of Igbodo Community in Ika North East Local Government Area of Delta State, rendering hundreds of people homeless.
As at the time of filling this report, several houses and farmlands have been covered by water, while many others were being threatened as the rains kept descending from the sky.
Residents of the affected areas were seen scampering for safety, even as they made efforts to salvage their belongings from the rampaging floods which intensified over the weekend with the heavy rains.
The Director, Media and Publicity, Igbodo Development Union (IDU) Worldwide, Nkem Nwaeke, said the country home of the Iyase of the kingdom (the traditional prime minister), Ifeanyi Unomah, was among the buildings mostly affected.
Nwaeke revealed that the Iyase, a retired don, was devastated as he watched the fence of his expanse premises went down. He immediately left the compound for safety, leaving his house and the properties behind.
There were conflicting accounts on what must have gone wrong as some persons claimed that the water was coming out from the ground as history has it that there was a small river called ‘Omelebele” in that particular area of the community.
The President General, Igbodo Development Union (IDU) Worldwide, Deacon Matthew Okwaje, who was one of the first callers to the affected area to ascertain the extent of damage and the effect on the people, said it was mostly caused by overflow of water as a result of the heavy rains.
While expressing shock and sadness over the development, Deacon Okwaje stated that roads and drains recently constructed in some towns around Igbodo, including Umunede, Akumazi and Ekwuoma might have added to the heavy flooding as the waters from those areas seemed to find their ways to Igbodo which is in a valley.
The president general, who said this was the first time flood was taking over a part of the community, pointed out that prior to the construction of those roads, Igbodo had never experienced such heavy flooding.
He disclosed that he was already making efforts to reach authorities of the State government, aimed at finding solution to the problem before the entire community is submerged by the water.