Lush Hair recently partnered with Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation by absorbing few graduates of hairdressing & cosmetology from its Skills Acquisition Programme.
This was made public during the formal presentation of the ladies to the brand at the office in Surulere by the Ministry’s officials where all agreements and promises were officially established.
The five stylists namely; Ms. Ineh Chioma, Ms. Adekoya Nike, Ms. Surupo Mayowa, Ms. Idowu Elizabeth, Ms. Olumegbon Fatimoh were clearly excited about the brands declaration of placing them on a monthly salary despite the flexibility nature of the job offer.
Speaking at the programme, Brand Manager, Lush Hair, Ms. Sukhm Pannu stated that they are delighted to collaborate with the Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation on this empowerment project.
“We hope that this will lead to a lasting and sustainable relationship. As a brand whose core target is women, we will always strive towards assisting the women-folks while also encouraging them to be confident and always stay on top of their game irrespective of their background and societal status.
“We are engaging them on a flexible contract, as they will be required to work only 15days and they earn salary at end of the month. Considering that they have the rest of the days to themselves, it consequently becomes an alternative stream of income for them”.
Having undergone different stages of trainings under a very close supervision of the Ministry, we believe they would have acquired the right amount of skill required for them to perform excellently on the task ahead”.
“Lush Hair is a proudly Nigerian quality brand specially designed to meet the beauty needs of the African woman, which is why we will always bend towards supporting strategic women-oriented activities, the Lush Hair brand stands for confident, modern and trendy women.” Sukhm said.
A representative of the Lagos State Ministry, Women Affairs Mrs. Hopo Kudirat, commended the company for not only recognising the effort of the Ministry but also lending support to the project by employing some of our graduates in the relevant field.
“It is important to state that there are 17 Skill Acquisition Centres spread across the five divisions of the State and the program is aim at training and sharpening women’s skills in the area of Hairdressing and Cosmetology, Catering and Hotel Management, Computer Training, Textile Designing/Hat Beads Stringing, Barbing and Printing Technology among others”.