Lagos – As the last quarter-final match of the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) between tournament debutants Madagascar, who have been impressive in the tournament, take on Tunisia, who are also yet to win or lose a match, in the quarter-final today at the Al Salam Stadium, the question is can the Carthage Eagles end the Barea fairytale? Madagascar have moved up the FIFA rankings from being one of the continent’s worst-ranked sides when qualification started, but they are still outside the top 100. Tunisia, by contrast were the second highest ranked African team at the start of this tournament, although the knockout stages so far have made a mockery of any such rankings. Madagascar have surprised many in Egypt from their 2-2 draw with Guinea in their first ever AFCON group match to their lone goal victory over the Swallows of Burundi and then the 2-0 shock victory over the Super Eagles of Nigeria to reach the second round of the tournament. They did not rest on their oars as they again proved book-makers wrong when the edged out Democratic Republic of Congo on penalties following a 2-2 draw in regulations time to set the stage for the quarterfinal match against the Tunisians, and their first AFCON meeting. They took the lead twice through Ibrahim Amada and Faneva Andriatsima but were pegged back on both occasions. Madagascar are not expected to make too many changes to the team that faced DR of Congo with Ibrahim Amada and Faneva Andriatsima set to start following their goals last time out. Team top scorer Carolus Andriamatsinoro failed to find the net in the Round of 16 but should retain his place in attack. Tunisia also needed penalties before seeing off the Black Stars of Ghana in their Round of 16 clash. Both teams had battled to a 1-1 draw in regulation time with Taha Yassine Khenissi opening the scoring for the North Africans before Rami Bedoui’s unfortunate own goal on the stroke of 90 minutes drew the score level. They remain unbeaten at this year’s AFCON with their performances driven by a solid defence. The former champions are good value for the win on Thursday and given their experience in the competition. Yassine Meriah and Dylan Bronn have impressed for the Tunisians and both men should continue their partnership in central defence. Taha Yassine Khenissi and Youssef Msakni have also been in good form and should retain their place in attack. On head-to-head, there have been only two previous matches involving Madagascar and Tunisia with the North Africans winning both fixtures. The most recent meeting was a 2-0 triumph during the 2002 World Cup qualifiers. Madagascar have shown plenty of quality in attack but could struggle to break down one of the best defences at the AFCON. Carolus Andriamatsinoro and Faneva Andriatsima should find things difficult against Dylan Bronn and Yassine Meriah. The Malagasy adopt an open style of play that often leaves them exposed at the back. They have conceded four goals in as many matches and should struggle against the pace and movement of Taha Yassine Khenissi and Youssef Msakni up front for the Tunisians. After all said and done, the question prior to the commencement of the match is whether the Carthage Eagles can end Madagascar fairy Tale?