LAGOS – Until the Federal Government ensures connectivity between international and domestic terminals in the country, the dream of any Nigerian airport especially the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), becoming a hub will continue to be unrealistic. The Nigerian Government also needs to take its leadership position in the West African sub-region to address the airfare imbalance in the region. These were the views of Mr. bankole Bernard, the National Association of Nigerian Travel Agencies (NANTA), in an interview with our correspondent in Lagos yesterday. Bankole observed that none of Nigerian international airports had connectivity to the local terminals, saying that the absence of this alone would make it difficult for any foreign carrier to partner with indigenous airlines in the country. He called on the Federal Government to develop the nation’s aviation industry to international status for more participation by investors, maintaining that this would enable the airports to fulfill their potential. Bankole also said that the consistent neglect of the aviation downstream sector by the government and free passage to foreigners to participate in the sub-sector had contributed immensely to the huge capital flight annually and called on the government to plug the loopholes. He canvassed for strict monitoring of activities in the sub-sector to prevent capital flight, insisting that foreign investors could participate in aircraft leasing, Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facility and training institutions for intending professionals in the sector. He said: “The next thing that has been hugely neglected is the downstream sector of the aviation industry. This was equally mentioned to the former Minister of State for Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika. When you look at the pyramid, it is very thin at the top and very broad at the base. That is the way business is structured in every industry, which means it is at the base that you are going to find the so called commoners, the downstream of every industry. “So, it means that if the policies that are being implemented don’t support the downstream sector, the desire growth and development will not be achieved. It means we really need to pay attention to the downstream sector by ensuring there is proper regulation and structure sector so that every tom, dick and harry don’t just go into the business. “If the downstream sector of the aviation industry is properly regulated and monitored, and restricting it only for the citizens of the country because that is how it is done everywhere of the world, then, you will find out that the desired growth will happen and the impact will be felt by the citizens and issues of capital flight will not happen.” Bernard also declared that fare imbalance within the region would continue until there was competition on the region especially the francophone states.