A 68-year-old man, who has been raping his 15- year- old daughter and her friends, has been arrested in Lagos along with three other rapists. Making this known yesterday was Bala Elkana, DSP,the police spokesperson of the command who said among the three other rapists are a pastor, step father and one other who was caught in the act in an uncompleted building. The police image maker revealed that the father has owned up to the crime and has been charged to court. According to him, “on June,27,2019 at about 1400hrs  the 15 –year- old victim (name withheld) reported a case of defilement at Imota Police Station against her father one Yisah Showunmi, 68- years- old. “The survivor alleged that her father has been having sexual intercourse with her for the past three years. She further alleged that when her two friends (names withheld) ages 15 and 16 came to stay in their house, her father also had sexual intercourse with them. She added that the last incident happened on June, 23,2019. The suspect was arrested and interrogated and he had confessed to the crime and has been charged to court.” Elkana said. In a related case Elkana, said on June,14,2019 at about 1300hrs, a 19-year-old victim,(name withheld alleged that her step father one Akin Olatilu, of the same address has been sexually abusing her since when she was 14- years. “She alleged further that she reported the matter to her mother but her mother did not take any action. She further stated that the abuse did not stop until she turned 18 -years old. “She explained that the suspect also had sexual intercourse with her in the month of march 2019. She added that when she turned down the request of the suspect in the month of June, he lied against her to her mother and she was beaten up by her mother which make her to speak out.”Elkana said. The police image maker also revealed the case of a pastor who raped and impregnated a fifteen years old girl. He said: “on July 2,2019 at about 1500hours, the mother of the survivor (name withheld) from Akure Ondo state reported at Igando Police Station against one Pastor  Pope Paul of No 10/11,Aminu street Ishuti Road Egan Igando. “The complainant alleged that sometime in August, 2017 her daughter (name withheld) was brought to Lagos to live with the suspect and his wife. She stated further that, she discovered that the survivor was pregnant sometime in June, 2018 and that when she interrogated her, she mentioned the name of the suspect. “The survivor stated in her statement that it all started in January, 2018 when the suspect started having sexual intercourse with her, and got her pregnant. She gave birth to a baby girl sometime in April, 2019.The suspect has been charged to court.” Elkana revealed. The police image maker said the fourth suspect was arrested for allegedly raping a girl in an uncompleted building. He said, on July 7, 2019 at about 1200 hours, one Harrison Chukwereuke, of Peace Estate reported at Iba Police Station that he caught  one Aliyu Ali Mohammed having sexual intercourse with a fourteen years old girl (name withheld) inside an uncompleted building in the estate adding that the suspect has been charged to court.