Hon. Olanrewaju Oshun, is one of the longest serving members of the Lagos State House of Assembly, representing Lagos Mainland Constituency II. In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, Oshun, who has been a member of the House since 2007, spoke on various national issues including the attack on the National Assembly by members of the Shiite group, security situation in the country; the need for state policing, among others. Excerpts: Few days ago, former President Olusegun Obasanjo wrote an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on the current security situation in the country. There have been commendations and condemnations over the letter. What is your view on the letter? Seriously, I don’t think I want to talk about the letter; I am not interested in the letter. For me, whether it is an open letter or private letter, a letter is a letter and the letter is between two people. So, I am not really interested in the letter. But, we need security in this country, it is getting worse and the duty of any government is the protection of lives and properties of citizens and I think we need to work on that. People are living under fear now. I have read the letter, but I don’t want to talk about it. Everyone seems to be concerned about the current security situation and this prompted the Senate to make a call for National Security Summit. Do you think that is what we need to address the situation? The duty of any legislative arm is to represent their people. So, if one of the challenges we are facing today is insecurity, I think the Senate has every right to see ways of tackling it. Whether you like it or not, the Senate will approve the budget, they will approve the security votes. But, would they be the ones to implement? No. So, if they feel that by bringing people together will proffer solution, then they are within their rights. I also think everyone of us should start organising our own security summits. What is happening today as regards kidnapping, armed robbery, assassination, rituals, armed banditry and the likes, those who perpetrate these crimes live among people. Even those of them who live inside the bush still come out to buy food stuff. So, their people know them and that is where everybody is important when it comes to the issue of security. We should give information, when you know there is somebody in your area that is involved in any criminal act, we should speak up and give information. The first thing in security is information, intelligence gathering and how do you gather intelligence? It is not everything you have to leave for the government. If you live in an area and you see someone carrying gun illegally, report to the necessary authorities. By so doing, you would have done your part. There was a woman that was kidnapped and was later released and she said there was a woman coming there to give them food. So, that woman coming to give them food knows the criminals, but because she was benefitting and getting money, she wouldn’t talk or give information. At the end of the day, we will blame the government. But, there is constant fear by Nigerians that when they give out information, they could be a source of target by the criminal elements, if their identities are eventually discovered… (Cuts in) There are many ways to give information to security agencies. You can visit the security outfits in person by appearing physically; you can report by writing a letter; if I have any information and I decide to write a letter to all the security agencies in Nigeria, even if any of them decide to sabotage you, others will not. Another way of giving out information is making phone calls. Yes, I understand that there is that constant fear and I know there are bad eggs everywhere. But, that does not mean that every policeman or every Army officer or Naval officer is corrupt. We are only looking at the security agents. But, we also have bad eggs among the lawyers, doctors, accountants and politicians. In every basket of eggs, there will be one or two rotten eggs. We cannot because of that paint everybody in bad pictures. Talking about the people knowing the criminals in their midst, there has been the clamour for creation of state and community policing. Don’t you think this is the right time the Federal Government heeds to the call? This is not right time. Nigeria was due for state police as far as back as 20 years ago. We have been clamouring for this many years ago. I don’t see how you want to explain to me that a crime is happening in Lagos Mainland, which is my constituency here in Lagos and the final call is someone who is Abuja; someone who has never visited that local government, or the final call is someone who is in Oshogbo. If you look at the hierarchy from the policeman who is on the street to the DPO, to the Area Commander, to the Commissioner of Police and to Inspector General, does it make sense? But, if we have state police, apart from the fact that it is going to create employment, you will know who you are dealing with and there will be a sense of responsibility. For instance, if a person has been chosen to be the head of security in Lagos and anything happens in Lagos, you know who to hold responsible. You know who to address it to. But, in a case where you bring a CP to Lagos from Kaduna and this man has not been to Lagos all his life, what will he know about Lagos? Does he know anything about the culture of the people? But, if you have a police in Lagos and you have someone from Lagos as the head, the person knows what the area entails. When there is an issue, he knows who to talk to and where to go. So, the creation of state police is long overdue. We need it as soon as possible. But, there is also this fear that state governors might take undue advantage of the state police and use them against their perceived enemies… (Cuts in) Unless you are telling me that the President himself is using the federal police or the security agencies against his enemies. Like I said earlier, there will be some bad eggs. We should also know that nothing is perfect anywhere. If you are creating state police, make them independent so that they will not need to go cap in hand to anybody. I am not saying it is going to be perfect from the onset. Are we saying there are not certain governors who have a relationship with the CPs in the states? So, if the governors decide to use the CPs negatively, they will use them that to me, is not an excuse. Why don’t the governors ask the Chief Medical Directors of the Teaching Hospitals to inject their enemies to death? The truth of the matter is that we need state police for so many reasons. Go to the UK, we have the Metropolitan Police and other police outfits. Even in USA, we have local government police. But, if we are not going to break ours into local government police, let us just have state police and what that simply will mean is that for every local government, there will be an officer heading that local government and if there is any trouble in that place, you know who to hold responsible, it is as simple as that.