Turkey and the US began talks on Tuesday to establish a “security zone” in northern Syria aimed at creating a buffer between Kurdish fighters and the Turkish border. “Military officials from the two countries began, today in Ankara, to work together on a security zone that will be put in place in a coordinated manner in the north of Syria,” the Turkish ministry of defence said in a statement. It said further talks were due in the coming days. The idea was first mooted by US President Donald Trump in January, in a call with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan, at a moment when Turkey was threatening to launch an offensive against Kurdish forces in Syrian Kurdistan. The US has provided extensive support to the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia in Syrian Kurdistan (Rojava), who have shouldered the brunt of fighting against the Islamic State group. In January 2019, a senior Syrian Kurdish politician and former co-chair of the Diplomatic Committee of the Democratic Union Party (PYD) Salih Muslim said that he supported a proposed buffer zone along the Turkish border as long as Ankara has no involvement. “We really need a safe area, but without Turkish fingers.”, Salih Muslim told Kurdistan24 TV. Syria’s Kurds rejected a “security zone” under Turkish control along the Syrian side of the two countries’ border. Senior Kurdish political leader Aldar Khalil said the Kurds would accept the deployment of UN forces along the separation line between Kurdish fighters and Turkish troops to ward off a threatened offensive. In recent days, Turkey has renewed threats to attack the YPG, which it sees as a terrorist group with direct ties to Kurdish separatists in Turkish Kurdistan. Syrian Kurdish Democratic Party Central Committee Member Sikri Hemo spoke about the safe zone the invading Turkish state wants to set up in North and East Syria. Hemo said Turkey is using the safe zone as an excuse to invade the region and stressed that they wish to invade the region and revive Islamic State in the area to be set up, Firat News Agency ANF reported. Hemo mentioned the Turkish state’s military and logistical support for ISIS: “The end of ISIS goes against Turkey’s interests, as they aimed to achieve their regional goals through the ISIS gangs. The invading Turkish state threatens to invade North and East Syria, to activate ISIS cells and revive the organization.” Turkey fears the creation of a Kurdish autonomous region or Kurdish state in Syrian Kurdistan could encourage separatism amongst its own Kurds, according to analysts. Analysts believe that Turkey is using the YPG as a pretext to invade Syrian Kurdistan and to undermine the Kurdish autonomous regions. In 2013, the Syrian Kurdish Democratic Union Party PYD — the political branch of the Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG) — has established three autonomous Cantons of Jazeera, Kobani and Afrin and a Kurdish government across Syrian Kurdistan in 2013. On March 17, 2016, Kurdish authorities announced the creation of a “federal region” made up of those semi-autonomous regions in Syrian Kurdistan.