Lagos – In 2012, the Chipolopolo of Zambia broke the Africa Cup of Nations jinx and conquered the continent by winning the trophy at the expense then pre-tournament favourites, Cote d’Ivoire. The players were rewarded with a huge sum of $59,000.
SUNDAY INDEPENDENT findings revealed that Christopher Katongo, the 2012 AFCON winning captain of the side, said before a state banquet hosted in their honour by the national government that the players had two reasons for showing resilience against the highly favoured Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire.
Speaking to the media then, the captain said that they first placed less premium on money so that they focused on the task at hand. Secondly, he said that their desire to honour their fallen colleagues in an air disaster before the 1994 AFCON in Tunisia also motivated them.
Receiving the money, the players expressed delight with the Zambian Government for rewarding them handsomely even as they reportedly played the entire competition even without collecting their daily camp allowances.
According to analysts, that the players were not paid camp allowances during the play did not mean that the Zambian Football Federation (FAZ) did not make any provision for the camp allowances, which, as had been gathered was in the region of $500 daily.
They actually did and the players deservedly needed the money but the players placed premium on winning the tournament, realising the importance of that in the overall development of their career.
In 2015, the Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire defeated the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon 1-0 to win the Cup of Nations. This newspaper gathered that the players played all through the tournament without any bonus and they did not as well caused any disaffection in camp following that.
Geoffrey Serey Die, then a midfielder with VfB Stuttgart of Germany, in an interview with Radio Cote D’Ivoire, about a month after the championship, said that they played through without issues of bonuses and wondered why their Federation hadn’t paid them afterwards.
“We have not been paid our bonuses; even at camp leading to our win, we were not paid anything but then, we did not complain because we had a target. We, the players, decided not make a case out of it because we don’t want our people to feel we come home to play because of money,” Die said.
“It is our right. We went for a tournament; we did our best and returned with the trophy. We have to be paid our bonuses,” he said.
It was gathered that each of the players was promised €90 000, which included an apartment worth €46 000 and €44,000 in cash.
The Elephants coach Herve Renard would be offered €114,000 while his collaborators would share €460,000.
From all indications, Nigeria are a big and better team than Zambia and can understandably equate with Cote d’Ivoire in terms of squad strength, exposure and pedigree. Consequently, Nigerian players will understandably earn relatively higher than their counterparts from Zambia and should better understand the place of sacrifice in the overall development of their careers and the advancement of the nation’s football.
But if the recent developments in the camp of the Super Eagles at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations taking place in Egypt are anything to be believed, then the commitment and patriotic disposition of players of the Super Eagles should obviously come to question.
The three-time African champions and one of the favourites to win the biannual competition in Egypt down-tooled a-day to their second group match against the Syli Nationale of Guinea. The players refused all to engage in all activities, including a mandatory press briefing over match bonus row. According to the NFF, it was only the bonus accrued from their match-day one against Burundi that was pending as all other entitlements had been cleared even before the players hit Egypt for the Cup of Nations.
According to Larry Izamoje, the chairman of Nigeria’s premier sports radio station, Brila FM, the players have the right to demand for their entitlements but they should not hold the nation to ransom, not even after President Muhammadu Buhari had assured them of availability of their entitlements just one day before the match.
He noted that still going ahead to protest after Buhari assured them of their entitlements amounted to not honouring the office of the president, which incidentally symbolises the corporate identification of the country.
Actually, the president, during a telephone chat with the players in the day preceding the match, assured them that they had nothing to worry about as their entitlements would be met, even as he noted that all arrangements had been concluded for their bonuses to be paid as quickly as possible.
Analysts believed that the players would have believed the president on the face value and then challenged him afterwards if their entitlements were not paid as he promised.
Meanwhile, commentators, while condemning what transpired in Egypt on the eve of the second group game against Guinea, regrettably noted that the issue of bonus had been a recurring challenge in the national team, while also not supporting a situation where the players were denied what was due to them.
Recall that before the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa, the Federal Government constituted the Presidential Task Force (PTF), which was saddled with the responsibility of ensuring that the former African champions had the best experience at the first Mundial on the African continent.
Among the persons in the committee were Rotimi Amaechi, then governor of Rivers State, and Izamoje, among others. The task force succumbed to the request of the players for an increment of their winning bonuses at the World Cup from $5,000 to $10,000.
The members of the task force agreed, assuring the players that they would ensure that they provide the remaining $5,000 and that the NFF would still be paying only $5,000. They also made it clear that it would be only for the World Cup and after which, the status quo ante would remain.
Since after the World Cup in 2010 and the attendant disbandment of the task force, the players insisted on the increased match bonuses and the NFF has continued to pay. In fact, it is on record that Nigeria pay one of the highest match bonuses in the world.
For instance, while England players were promised a whooping £350,000 each if they had won the last World Cup in Russia, the players were not promised any bonuses for matches at the group and knockout stages heading to the final. Unfortunately, the Three Lions crashed out at the quarter final to Croatia after 2-1 full and extra time scores.
At the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and after qualifying for the Round of 16, the Super Eagles players down-tooled. It was gathered that the Aminu Maigari-led NFF refused to pay the players the agreed $30,000 bonus each if they qualified for the Round of 16.
After Nigeria’s match against Argentina, which sealed qualification for the 2nd round, the players expected to receive their match bonus but Maigari had a meeting with the team on Wednesday.
During the meeting, he completely avoided the issue and by the next day, rumors started spreading in the camp that the players would only be paid half of the agreed bonus for qualifying for the second round.
This rattled the players especially the home based ones who were heavily relying on the bonuses to improve their lives back home, and they stopped training and even refused to fly out to Brasilia from Porto Alegre, venue of the match against France.
While so many Nigerians supported the team in their quest, it was unpatriotic of them to have shunned training given the decisive nature of the Round of 16 game against France. Also, it was expected that the then Joseph Yobo-led players would have shunned distractions knowing the importance of the game, which they lost 0-2.
Just one year earlier, the Super Eagles failed to fly out to the same Brazil on time for the FIFA Confederation Cup also over bonus issues.
The then African champions did not arrive in Brazil until the early hours of Sunday morning, just 36 hours before their Group B opener against minnows Tahiti on Monday, after missing their scheduled flights on Thursday.
The players, it will be recalled, were unhappy about being offered bonus payments of $2,500 (1,873 euros) following a 1-1 draw with Namibia in World Cup qualifying and had demanded double that amount from the Nigeria Football Federation.
A truce was eventually brokered by the then Sports Minister, Bolaji Abdullahi, but on the eve of their entrance into the Confederations Cup, then team captain, Vincent Enyeama, revealed that the players were still not satisfied.
“We haven’t settled anything, but we’ve moved on and everything is normal. We accept the criticisms, we’re responsible for our actions and we stay as a team,” he was quoted as saying then by the media then.
As consequences, the team has severally entered the field unprepared for games, as the bonus-induced crisis was blamed for Nigeria’s ouster at the 2014 World Cup
But Henry Nwosu, who spoke to SUNDAY INDEPENENT on the issue, said the crisis was always as a result of mistrust between the players and the football administrators.
“Before any tournament, an agreement is reached on what is to be received by the players in the event of win, draw or loss but if the officials renege on promises made, sometimes, the players will not train or even play,” he said.
As a solution, he called for a holistic and defined agreement between the players and the NFF and commended the Amaju Pinnick-led football house for ensuring prompt payment of the players.
“It is unfortunate that we allow this issue of bonus to always come up. But I think we can still manage it if we can come up with a well-articulated and defined approach to this whereby the players will truly have faith in the NFF and also the other way round,” he said.
But some schools of thought, who have continually questioned the commitment of Nigerian players to the development of the game here, citing instances where some notable African players like Samuel Eto’o, Didier Drogba and President George Weah of Liberia had, in the past, bailed out their national teams, paying the entitlements of the players for even tournaments as Weah did in their failed bid to qualify for the 2002 World Cup
But others on the other end have blamed the NFF, noting that the players, by virtue of African tradition, have extended families to take care of, explaining further that in the cases of injuries playing for the national team, they had severally been abandoned to their fate, which eventually affect them in their clubs.