Abuja – Poised to take advantage of African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), President Muhammadu Buhari, on Sunday, approved the establishment of a National Action Committee (NAC) – a move that will culminate in the implementation of the African free trade agreement.
Recall that the president recently signed the AfCFTA on behalf of Nigeria at the 12th Extraordinary Session of the African Union Heads of State on July 7, 2019, in Niamey, Republic of Niger.
The National Action Committee will comprise of representatives of ministries and agencies with competent and relevant jurisdiction, selected stakeholder groups from the private sector, and the civil society to coordinate the implementation of all the AfCFTA readiness interventions.
A statement by Garba Shehu, Buhari’s media aide, noted that the National Action Committee (NAC) would, upon inauguration, undertake a process of engagement with stakeholders to sensitise them on the opportunities and challenges of the AfCFTA, with preparedness plans for the Nigerian economy.
He explained that upon ratification, Nigeria would domesticate the agreement by incorporating it into existing laws or enacting new laws, as appropriate.
Also, engagement is expected to start shortly with the 9th National Assembly.
President Buhari had approved the recommendations of the Committee on Impact and Readiness Assessment of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement.
The committee, which was inaugurated by the president in October 2018, submitted its report on June 27, 2019.
The report of the presidential committee was comprehensive, analytic, with the full engagement of stakeholders in the Nigerian economy.
The work of the AfCFTA presidential committee was preceded by a nation-wide sensitisation process directed by president.
According to Shehu, the report and consultative process raised the bar in engagement by government with stakeholders and set a standard for building support for strategic areas of public policy with clarity on concrete parameters for implementation action.
The AfCFTA agreement, which creates a single market for goods and services and movement of persons to increase intra-African trade and deepen African economic integration, has Phase I and Phase II negotiations.
The Phase I negotiations culminated in the agreement establishing the AfCFTA, the Protocol on Trade in Goods; Protocol on Trade in Services, and the Protocol on the Rules and Procedures on the Settlement of Disputes.
These were adopted by the African Union Heads of State in Kigali on March 21, 2018. The Phase II negotiations are expected to commence in January, 2020, and will cover competition, investment, and intellectual property rights.
The recommendations approved by President Buhari include signature and ratification of the AfCFTA agreement; engaging in the ongoing negotiations of the annexures of the agreement to incorporate safeguards for the economy, such as a longer period to achieve AfCFTA’s trade liberalisation ambition; common exclusive and sensitive lists for ECOWAS; import quotas for exclusive and sensitive products; security and customs cooperation and other measures to tackle smuggling, non-tariff barriers to trade and predatory trade practices.