Chief Ochi Emmanuel Ode is Chairman, the Middle belt Traditional Council (MBTC) in the South West geo-political zone. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on expectations from Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State and the November 16 Kogi State governorship election, among other issues. Excerpt: Since Governor Samuel Ortom was returned as Benue State governor, do you see his second term better than the first? This is an issue of governance. I expect that some of the governors who returned to power for second term should not waste time in hitting the ground running. But, this seems not to be. It portends danger that the next four years without much impact. Ortom has retained some personal aides. But, I think by now, the large members of his team should have been assembled so that governance can start in earnest because there is no time to waste. The era of buying time is gone. He should realise that quickly. Most of our political leaders jumped into the race for governance before realising that they do not have their gloves. Once they get into the ring without the gloves, they will be in the ring looking for any glove they will easily get. They do not have anything in mind they will do for their people. That is why they get more confused when they are confronted with the reality of governance. This is the situation we have in Benue State. How do you see Governor Yahaya Bello’s endorsement of for second term by the Kogi monarchs and the All Progressives Congress (APC) governors? The politics in Kogi State appears to be quite different from other well known places in the sense that traditional rulers should be seen as fathers to all sons and daughters of Kogi State and therefore should have remained unbiased and apolitical. But, by what they have done, the monarchs have clearly shown that they are no longer unbiased. Other aspirants, either in APC or any other political party will look at the traditional rulers as supposed fathers who have turned against them and will no longer trust them. That is not good for the traditional institution and I advise the royal fathers to distance themselves from such in the interest of the state. Do you think other aspirants stand a chance for victory in the Kogi State governorship election going by the monarchs’ action? Let me say emphatically that politics by election should be a case of one man, one vote. If that is adhered to strictly, other aspirants should go and sell their manifestos and seek votes from the electorates. The endorsement by the traditional rulers will not really sway the majority of the electorates to any particular candidate. The endorsement of the people of Kogi State, rather than those of the traditional rulers, will either mar or make Bello’s governorship. So, the people of Kogi State should be allowed to freely say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the ambition of the governor, if they vote or him above average based on his first term performance. What is your take on the Federal Government’s suspended Ruga settlement policy? I have said it for umpteenth time that the proposal of the Federal Government on Ruga will not bring about the much needed platform for peace among the herders and farmers in Nigeria. What is practised world over is ranching. Why can’t that be replicated in Nigeria? Why must the Federal Government use taxpayers’ money where there will be no return on the investment. Just immediately after the Federal Government suspended the policy, some misguided elements from the North addressed a press conference, giving the government 30-day ultimatum to continue with the Ruga programme, if not, they will ensure that all Southerners leave North. This is the greatest level of impunity intended to cause fears and disaffection in the minds of the public, which can degenerate further to movement of people from one region to another for safety. By so doing, the unity of this country is being threatened. I am surprised that the Federal Government and security agencies have not swung into action to bring those elements to book. That is how civil war builds up. The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders wants to set up Fulani Youth Vigilantes in South East communities and possibly in other regions. What is your take on the request? The Ruga policy was intended to establish Fulani settlements in all the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), thereby making it possible for the Fulani to be an indigene of every state in Nigeria. If the Ruga settlement had been allowed, they would set up Emirs, have councillors, etc, in every state. In time to come, they will demand local governments in every state.  You rent a property where there is a security set up by the landlord and the tenant will set up his own security in the same compound. Who is answerable to who? Will there not be a conflict of interests? So, the rejection of that proposal by the South East, South South, the Afenifere and others is in order. How do you see the new National Assembly leadership, which many say would be a rubber stamp to the Executive? It should not. The Nigerian public is more enlightened now. Nigerians are ready to ensure that what pleases them is what will be implemented. We have seen the dissenting voices against the Ruga project. Before now, the populace would have remained docile. But, gone were the days when government could not be held accountable. Whatever the National Assemble does in this current dispensation is being monitored by the populace and they will be held accountable. I see them being kept on their toes. Do you see this government having a viable opposition? I see the opposition remaining very strong. This is because some of the people in the opposition have tested power in one form or the other. So, they will not be easily swayed by the usual Nigerian money politics. After four years on saddle, do you think President Muhammadu Buhari should delay naming his second term cabinet for so long? Just I said in my response to your first question, most of our political leaders do not have genuine plan for the people when they seek for electoral positions. That is why when they are elected and sworn in, they do not hit the ground running. They get into positions and get confronted with the demands of governance, which they do not have any iota of solution at hand because they are not prepared. It is most serious in the case of President Muhammadu Buhari administration because it is a transition from one person to the same person. For him to be in a dilemma in forming his team is really a worrisome development. Months are counting already. Before he knows it, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will be ringing bell that another election is due. It is high time for Buhari to redeem his image. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was quoted to have said in United States of America that Nigeria’s security situation was being overblown by the media. How do you see media reports on Nigeria’s security crises? I watched and listened to what Osinbajo said during the interview in U.S. he was never misquoted or misinterpreted. His problem was that he was trying to dispute the indisputable and he bent backwards to make the matter look different from what it is to impress his audience, to build a good image for the government he represents. We must not forget that his admission of the true position of security in Nigeria will mean accepting that the government has failed. So, he was only saying what he felt was a defence to his government and being economical with the truth. The issue of insecurity in Nigeria is not overblown. The media, the Fourth Estate of the Realm, have always remained the vanguard of the country. If Nigeria fails, the media truly will have the highest blame because they are the watchdog of society. When the watchdog sleeps, the enemy will succeed, but, when the watchdog sounds an alert, all those involved will be account table. That is the place of the media the world over. I urge the Nigerian media to continue in what they are doing.