D’Tigress opens camp on Friday in Lagos as preparation commences for the 2019 AFROBASKET championship in Dakar, Senegal. Head Coach, Otis Hughley arrived last night alongside team captain, Adaora Elonu, Jasmine Nwajei, Elo Edeferioka and Promise Amukamara, who marked her international debut for Nigeria at the 2018 FIBA Basketball in Spain. Promise makes a return alongside newly invited University of Buffalo player, Theresa Onwuka, Aisha Balarabe, Sarah Imovhioh and Ezinne Kalu. Victoria Macaulay, who last played for Chicago Sky in the WNBA, will join the early birds in camp alongside former Nigerian international and newly appointed assistant coach, Ndidi Madu. Otis also called up New York Liberty power forward, Ifunaya Ibekwe, while Italy based Kunaiyi Pallas Akpannah will also hope to compete for a space in the team alongside Atonye Nyingifa, Sarah Ogoke and Evelyn Akhator, who were all part of the D’Tigress 2018 World Championship heroics. Elizabeth Balogun who recently transferred to Louisville from Georgia Tech completes the list of the 15 invited players. The 2019 FIBA Afrobasket is between 9th and 18th of August. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) has appointed referees, table officials, statisticians and Technical Commissioners for the four match venues of the 2019 Zenith Bank Women’s Basketball championship that tip off on Saturday. Subel Kingsley, Sharon Njoku, Faith Ogwuche, Queen Nwagu and Abdul Yakubu have been appointed as Table Officials for Abuja zone, while Suleiman Tukar, Aisha S. Daudu, Felix Adedeji, Emmanuel Balus, Abu Salias will be in charge of Zaria. Oyinloye Rapheal, Adeola Isah and Suleiman Mutiu will be on duty in Ibadan. In Akure, it will be Korede Fesiyo, Martins Ola, Babatunde Alex, Austine Olajide, Sunday Owolabi and Taiwo Kayode Babatunde Ola and Josiah Ahmedu have been selected as statisticians for Abuja. Timothy Abimbola and Abu Asimi will be in Zaria, Shomola Abiola will partner with Oladele Lanre in Ibadan with Adeniyi Adewale and Emmanuel Asher in charge of Akure. Christopher Thomas Nnaji and Ishola Akinsehinde have both been appointed as Technical Commissioners with Afolabi-Oluwayemi Olabisi (NBBF Secretary-General) to supervise. Ibrahim Haruna Hassan, Mohammed Sule, Shibi Emmanuel (Supervisor) have been posted to Zaria. Others include, Monday Owuh, Bamidele Funmilayo and Aderinboye Adebayo Alaba (Supervisor) in Ibadan and Adeola Oboro, Angela Nzekwe and Isokphehi Andrew (Supervisor) in Akure. 23 referees have also been appointed for the first phase of the Zenith Women Basketball League. All officials and teams are to arrive on Friday, 25th, July for the Technical Meeting. Departure is on the 2nd of August.