Darius Dickson Ishaku, the governor of Taraba State, has said he would prioritise education, agriculture and restructuring of the civil service in his second term. In this interview with select journalists, he also spoke on the suspended Ruga scheme and the recent attack on his Abuja residence. JANET AUDU brings the excerpts: Your main opponent, Senator Aisha Jummai Alhassan and former Minister of Women Affair visited to congratulate you on your victory at the poll. What does that portend for peace and unity of Taraba State? Today, Jummai Alhassan, the gubernatorial candidate of United Democratic Party (UDP), who was also the APC candidate in 2015 election, paid a courtesy call and congratulated me. If you can recall, we had an election that time and I defeated her. She went even up to the Supreme Court where the verdict favoured me. I was given the mandate to govern Taraba State. In 2019, she still became the gubernatorial candidate of United Democratic Party (UDP) and we had election which she came third. I am very happy that she came in today to congratulate me. I see it as a good omen because I have been yearning for peace with a slogan of ‘Give Me Peace, and I Will Give You Development’. Her visit marked the peak of it. With her coming, we are going to work together to the benefit of the state. So, I thank God for the happening of today and I will make sure that we translate it to progress of our people. Your challenger Sani Abubakar Danladi of the APC lost his case at the Supreme Court. This is the second time you are winning cases at the Supreme Court. What is your feeling over the judgment? I thank God for winning of the case at the Supreme Court. But, let me correct you. I wasn’t the one that went to the court with the APC contender. It was an internal court case, which happened to end up that way which, ab initio, he was not qualified to be a candidate. That is to say that all votes from APC were wasted. I also thank God that the Supreme Court judgment came out this way. If not, he would have been bragging and be saying, ‘If only I was allowed to contest this election, I would have remove DDI.’ I am very happy that he contested and I defeated him, with a landslide victory with margin of hundreds of thousands of votes. To crown it all, the Supreme Court removed him for a different offence entirely, which tells you that God is not only a Nigerian, but resides in Nigeria and particularly in Taraba State. This is because it is in Taraba State that if you come, whatever you come with, God will deal with you appropriately. I was not the one that went to court. It was the case of their party, among themselves. God is with me and there was a serious disagreement among them, which turn out in my favour. So, I remain grateful to God Almighty. Now that the court case is over, what should Tarabans people expect from you inyour second term in office? Tarabans should expect much better things than what they have seen. The fortunate thing is that we have laid the foundation of what we want to achieve for the state. We just have to build on the foundation that has already been laid. They should expect the best from us. They should expect a vibrant cabinet. Cabinet made with people who are more professional; people who can deliver the goods, even in my absence; people who can live up to expectation of handling state matters. There are areas I will lay emphasis like education, agriculture and tourism. The civil service needs restructuring as well as so many other areas I have mentioned earlier. We have started. It is only to consolidate on what we have done already. Four years is 360 days times four. We are counting in days now. I am assuring you that Tarabans will soon start counting their blessings. All I need from them is for them to give me peace and I will give them development. Last week, Mr. President suspended the Ruga scheme because some Nigerians felt it was not necessary. What is your take on this purported Ruga project? The whole Ruga scheme should be cancel. You can’t do Ruga in the whole country. It is not acceptable. It’s not workable and cannot be allowed in Taraba. Already, I have in place the Anti-Open Grazing Law. It is already a law in Taraba State, and we are making a lot of progress on ranching. We have submitted a request for loans for that project.But, the CBN has refused to give us for a reason best known to them. Otherwise, I would have showcased what it is to be doing ranching in Taraba State. It is the best form of practice in this modern day if you are talking about cattle. If it is true you are talking about grazing, but it appears they have something else in mind, not about cattle or grazing anymore. But, they are talking about colonisation. Recently, your official residence in Abuja was attacked and ransacked by the police. Tarabans have sympathised with you and willing to hear your reaction. What is your feeling on the attack? I am embarrassed by this democratic government of APC for not living according to the tenets of the constitution. It is disgracing, embarrassing and insulting. I am shocked that only PDP could talk about it. The APC have been mute. Did they have governors? So, somebody walked into APC governor’s house and searched, broke all the doors and windows. How will that governor feel? But, they did not just force themselves in, but also threw out my children, whom I used two years to beg to come back to Nigeria. Now, one of them has gone back. I am still begging him to come back. This is nonsense. I am not happy at all. You can imagine, even my APC fellow governors have been quiet over this issue. Earnestly, I am highly disappointed. Is it how we will continue in this country? It is me today; it could be others tomorrow. So, I say without mincing words that this is unfair and unjust. I am disappointed with this APC government. 