Manfred Weber, whose bid to be European Commission president was firmly rejected by EU leaders, blamed French President Emmanuel Macron and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for his downfall, and said there were “powerful forces who did not want to accept the election result.”, According to Politico.eu. “There were backroom talks and late-night sessions in which the Macron and Orbán axis prevailed and the Spitzenkandidat system was dismantled,” Weber told Bild on Thursday. “This is not the Europe I want and I will continue to fight for the democratization of the EU.” Weber was the center-right European People’s Party’s Spitzenkandidat, or lead candidate, in the European election. After the EPP emerged as the largest group in the election, despite losing seats, many in the EPP believed Weber should become Commission president. But his candidacy came in for sustained criticism, and EU leaders on Tuesday nominated another German conservative — Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen — for the Commission post. Macron — a leading opponent of the Spitzenkandidat system — was one of Weber’s biggest critics, saying he had insufficient “experience” and “credibility.” Orbán withdrew his support for Weber after the German pledged not to accept the position of Commission president if his success depended on the support of Hungary’s ruling Fidesz party. Before then, Weber had faced a barrage of criticism from his opponents on the campaign trail regarding his close relationship with Orbán. Weber said the attacks on him were “surprising” as “Macron’s [European] election campaign was particularly directed against Orbán.” “Macron said ‘vote for my Europe, not for Orbán’s.’ And suddenly they are working together and damaging democratic Europe. Now we are in a shambles.” Weber also told Bild “it is clear that Viktor Orbán has payed me back” because of Weber’s criticism of Budapest’s “restriction of fundamental rights.” Weber admitted that the past week had not been easy for him. “On the other hand, this is the Champions League, so you have to be able to take it. Giving up is not an issue for me. I’m burning for the European idea,” Weber said. Asked whether he could explain what happened, Weber said: “I find it very difficult to explain … I can only say to my voters that there were powerful forces who did not want to accept the election result.” Weber on Tuesday officially withdrew from the race for the European Commission top job, announcing he would instead continue as the leader of the conservative group in the European Parliament. He did not stand to be president of the Parliament. “I’m very disappointed, that’s for sure,” Weber said, but added he “will support Ursula von der Leyen” and found her an “appropriate” choice.