Dr Felix Nwosu, Imo State-born policy analyst and public affairs commentator, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the continued detention of the Shiites Leader, Ibraheem El-Zakyzaky, the Emeka Ihedioha administration in Imo State, and other crucial issues. Excerpt: As a stakeholder in Imo State, how do you the emergence of Emeka Ihedioha as the state governor during the last election? I congratulate Chief Emeka Ihedioha for emerging as the Imo State governor in the last election. I wish him and his administration well. His emergence came as a surprise to many, but I see it as the will of God. His emergence has calmed down the tension in Imo State, especially throughout the second term of Rochas Okorocha. Several people never expected that the PDP would have defeated the APC and APGA in Imo State. The fall of APC and APGA in Imo State was a surprise. It was not really about PDP, but about Ihedioha because he has integrity and is a man of peace. He peacefully accepted his electoral loss in 2015. He bounced back and defeated all the bigwigs in APC, APGA and even Action Alliance (AA). That shows that the hand of God is with him. So, he should show his appreciation to God and the good people of Imo State by rendering excellent service and providing the democracy dividends which have eluded the people. Former Governor Rochas Okorocha has been accusing Governor Emeka Ihedioha of witch-hunting because the new governor has been trying to probe his predecessor to recover properties and funds allegedly stolen or misappropriated by the last administration. How do you see the allegation? I believe that if Okorocha has no skeleton in his cupboard, he would not complain. People were complaining that their land was confiscated during the Okorocha regime. The administration was personalised. ADAPALM was privatised and converted to private use. Most markets were allocated to friends, relations and cronies. Definitely, if a new government finds out that those things are true, it will react in the way Ihedioha is reacting, if it is a responsible government. But, in doing this, the new Imo administration should follow due process and avoid witch-hunting. Also, whatever belongs to Okorocha and his ex-cabinet members or Okorocha’s wife, the former Imo First Lady, by right due to the positions they occupied, should be left to them. What agenda would you proffer for the Emeka Ihedioha administration in Imo State? As an Imolite, I will like continuity. There should not be an abandoned project. Whatever Okorocha could not complete, he should finish them. He should look at Owerri as a capital city and give it a good face. He should give it a face-lift as the heartbeat of the state. Ihedioha should create jobs for the youths and have an empowerment programme for them which will give skills. Then after such trainings, he should provide soft loans for them to take off. This will check crimes like armed robberies and kidnapping in the state. Imo is a peace loving state. Ihedioha should also look at road infrastructure. There is a lot of decadence in the health sector. If possible, the state can partner with the Federal Government to upgrade the Federal Medical Centre, Owerri. He should ensure that all the health centres are upgraded and well equipped and stocked with drugs to ensure that the people’s lives are prolonged. He should have good welfare package for widows and the elderly as obtains in other places. He should also look at the education policies and institutions set up by Okorocha and improve on them in a way they will be more acceptable to Imo people. He should also improve upon the free education given by Okorocha and bring it to perfection. He should look at policies and give Imo people what is best for them. Certain groups have been criticising Pastor Enoch Adeboye for still retaining Prof Yemi Osinbajo as the RCCG pastor, who they accuse of not being truthful on the state of the nation. They also allege that the RCCG General Overseer has not been speaking on national issues because of Osinbajo. How do you see such allegations against Adeboye? People should separate religion from politics. Government goes with policies and religion with worship. Different laws govern the church and government. People should not confuse the two. Osinbajo as the vice president of Nigeria goes with government policies. He was sworn in with the nation’s constitution and not the RCCG doctrine. People should not confuse the two and judge him by that. They should not drag the name of Adeboye into politics just because Osinbajo happens to be a pastor in RCCG. He brought Osinbajo up and showed him godly living. Osinbajo, being a member and pastor of RCCG has nothing to do with his position as Nigeria’s vice president. Adeboye cannot tell him how to oversee Nigeria with Buhari. Even Senators and House of Representatives members have their religions. They have their churches and mosques. Why should such groups pick on Osinbajo or Adeboye based on religion? They should not bring the church into governmental affairs. That will create a lot of confusion. Again, they cannot compel Adeboye to speak on any issue, if he does not want to speak on it, moreso as both the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), which he belongs to have spoken on such matters. He cannot say something different from what those groups have said. There have been mass protests by members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), the Shiites, for the release of their leader, Ibraheem El- Zakyzaky by the Federal Government for about four years now after being granted bail several times by the courts. How do you see the development? My advice to the government is that they should follow the rule of law. Keeping El-Zakyzaky is unfair and against the law of natural justice. It is inhuman to detain him for four years. He is a religious leader who has followers. If he did anything wrong, he should be tried properly and jailed if he is found guilty. But, if he is found to be innocent, they should free him. Government should do things that should not be faulted. What they are doing to El-Zakyzaky is wrong. Does he not have right of bail after he has been granted bail by the courts? Government should listen to the voice of reason and release him. Alternatively, they should release him from prison detention and put him under house arrest till his trial is over. Let them allow him access to his family, especially his wife. Nigeria cannot afford a religious war, especially when the country has several other security threats like the Boko Haram, the herdsmen, kidnapping and banditry. What is your take on the Federal Governments suspension of the Ruga settlement project? What does Ruga represent? What does it mean? What purpose will it serve? Cattle rearing is personal business. Government can support people in business ventures, but should not go to the extent of looking for settlements for them and imposing Ruga on state governors. Personal businesses should not be converted to federal or state ventures. Cattle rearers can individually meet state governments and negotiate for land or space. Land is not a federal matter. While the suspension has calmed down frayed nerves and reduced tension that was building up in the nation, what is needed from the Federal Government is total cancellation of the Ruga policy, not just suspension. We have different types of farmers in the country. Why should cattle rearers be treated specially? The Federal Government should not bring in a policy that will make people question it motive.