Former President Goodluck Jonathan has called for the reform of the local government system in the country to make it more responsive to the needs of the people and more functional in combating insecurity in the country. Ikechukwu Eze, Special Adviser to Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, in a release said that the former President stated this in his keynote speech on Thursday at the 2019 African Security Conference holding in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Jonathan also spoke about family values, functional education and responsible politicking as the building blocks for a peaceful society. He lamented the failure of governance at the local levels, noting that a “functional local government system is strategic to peace because it is designed not only to address basic social services but to also collaborate with traditional institutions to secure the people.” He said, “It is sad that the local government which used to serve as the engine of development because of its closeness to the people no longer functions effectively. By grading local roads, building community centres, providing primary healthcare and maintaining local schools, the councils of old served as stabilising factor in the society because, in doing all these, they were quite responsive to the needs of the people. “The local government was also active in maintaining peace through effective community policing because of its strategic position and proximity to the people. They were able to do that, in the past, because the local government system enjoyed a measure of autonomy which gave them control over their resources, projects and programmes. Today the story is different. “The councils can hardly do anything else beyond paying the salaries of the members of staff, elected representatives and their aides. There is need for the nation to correct this untoward development,” he stated. The former President therefore called on the National and State Assemblies to “take a holistic look at governance at the local levels with the mind of reviewing the enabling laws and making the local governments more functional.” Speaking on family values and the need for adequate parental care, Jonathan said, “Like a mustard seed, a sense of peace and security is first planted in the mind of the individual, beginning from the family unit which is the building blocks of every society, and then harvested at the community level, when all citizens understand that the common good flows from their individual actions.”