LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday sent a list of 43 ministerial nominees to the Senate for confirmation, with the screening of the nominees expected to commence today. However, the ministerial list, submitted 55 days after Buhari was inaugurated into office, did not include any sports personality. Daily Independent investigation, however, reveals that the process of nominating ministers would never produce somebody who can truly administer sports in the country. Aside that the government looks down on sports despite that it has the capacity to reduce unemployment in the country by half; no state government will nominate a candidate for the purpose of becoming a sports minister. Chief Segun Odegbami (MON), a former Super Eagles captain, said on Tuesday that the list was not drawn on merit. “We all know the composition of the ministerial nominees. They are drawn as representative of the states. A state will nominate one and possibly two. For example, there is no way a south west state will have a sports minister. They want to have finance, power, works those powerful ministries. That is how it’s done. Nobody wants to have sports,” he said. According to Odegbami, the solution to having a genuine sports development was to resuscitate the National Sports Commission. “The solution is to go back to the National Sports Commission which will have a board of about 12 to 13 members. It is not a commission where we will have a minister. No. It is a commission whose board will be composed of technocrats, those who understand the sector. “You know sports thrive on team work, not when an individual takes a decision. Take example football, aside the players, we have coaches and other backroom staff who work together to produce a team. “So also the commission, the board will meet and take a decision, not when a sports minister takes a unilateral decision. The members of the board can come from any place. They are not politically nominated but based on their background,” he said. To Chief Patrick Ekeji, a former Director General in the Ministry of Sports, appointment of ministers is purely a political matter and is not executed based on competence. “In developed countries, those appointed as sports ministers are eminently qualified and therefore, they understand certain basic parameters and philosophies, which are the basic things that a sports minister should have. “But in Nigeria, that is not the case. Appointment of sports minister is usually not based on political competence. You have a sports minister who is not an expert and surrounds himself with cronies and friends who know next to nothing about the institution they are supposed to administer. That is the problem,” he said. “Sport needs a minister who understands sports administration and how to manage it. If you are not an expert, what you need to do is to get those who have the understanding of the sector, how to administer and manage the sector,” he submitted. To him, the solution was to establish the National Sports Commission by law and it should be under the ministry of sports. “Why it must be under a ministry is because there are certain decisions that only a minister can take. If you are just a parastatal, it means you have to go through the presidency in order to get the attention of the president on certain issue, it is usually a herculean task,” he said.