Following the consideration of the report of its Ad-Hoc Committee set up to investigate the crisis rocking the 7th Edo State House of Assembly, the House of Representatives has ordered Mohammed Adamu, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), and Yusuf Bichi, Director-General, Department of State Services (DSS), to seal off the State House of Assembly until a proper inauguration is conducted. The House also asked the State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, to issue a fresh proclamation of the Assembly within one week, which must be published in the media. These are part of the recommendations by the Ad-Hoc Committee. The panel’s report was considered and adopted at the plenary last Wednesday. The State Assembly was inaugurated in a controversial circumstance on June 17, 2019, when nine out of the 24 members-elect, held an inauguration and elected Frank Okiye, as Speaker at night. The dramatic and nocturnal election followed the differences between Obaseki, and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the former governor and the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, over the control of the State Assembly. The House, acting on a motion moved by a member from Edo State, Julius Ihonvbere, last week had set up the Abdurazak Namdas-led panel to probe the crisis and recommend actions to be taken by the House of Representatives. The nation’s constitution empowers the House of Representatives to take over any State House of Assembly that is crisis ridden, and make laws for the state until the issues are resolved. The House of Representatives, in accordance to this power granted it by the constitution, set up the ad-hoc committee. Namdas, while presenting the report of the probe, said the panel discovered that Obaseki did not indicate the time for the inauguration, thereby creating the confusion among members-elect of the Assembly. He also noted that two of the nine members-elect, who participated in the controversial inauguration, claimed before the panel to have done so under duress. In the report, the panel recommended, “That the governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, in the interest of peaceful coexistence of the state, should issue a fresh proclamation within one week in line with Section 105(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), stating the date, time and venue (of the inauguration), and publish in any national daily and television station. “That all actions taken by the 7th Assembly members should be declared null and void pending proper inauguration. “That all members of the Edo State House of Assembly, both those who have been inaugurated and those who have not been inaugurated should dissolve their factions in the interest of peace and stability of the House, with the view to moving the state forward. “That the Inspector-General of Police and the Director-General, Department of State Services, should shut down the Edo State House of Assembly and provide adequate security to allay further fears of intimidation and threat as alleged by members-elect.” The House threatened that the National Assembly would take over the affairs of the state legislature if the resolutions were not complied with. “Where recommendations 1, 2 and 3 above fail, the National Assembly should invoke the provisions of Section 11 (4) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) to take over the state House of Assembly until the situation normalises,” the federal lawmakers resolved. However, since the committee’s recommendations were made public, the question among Nigerians is: Will that move douse the political tension in the state? Reps’ Action Not Polite Enough According to a social critic, the action of the House of Representatives was not polite enough in a democracy. He noted that the best option would have been for the National Assembly to invite the warring factions and dialogue with them with aim of resolving the differences. He explained that the resolution of the crisis in Edo State House of Assembly, should have been done by the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), but because of the involvement of Adams Oshiomhole, the party’s National Chairman, the crisis degenerated to the level it is presently. He said: “This is the time the APC National Working Committee (NWC) needs to wade in without the involvement of Oshiomhole and dialogue with them. “The above option needs to be adopted, rather than the National Assembly taking over of the Edo State House of Assembly. To do that is dictatorial and not good under democracy.” NASS Members Are Meddlesome Interlopers In Edo A lawyer and former lawmaker during the Second Republic, said: “The National Assembly members are busybodies, meddlesome interlopers, as far as Edo State House of Assembly is concerned. The action of the National Assembly members is against Section 94 of the constitution. “If there were good legislators in Abuja, they would have known that they have no reason to interfere in what is happening in Edo State House of Assembly. The House has been inaugurated and that action can only be performed once in the life of a tenure. “They are aware that 12 members of the House are currently sitting in the House and the other 12 members should be very careful not to lose their 181 days required by law for legislative sittings. If they fail to meet that number of days, their seats will be declared vacant. “On their arguments that since they have not been formerly inaugurated and that their working days cannot be counting, is not tenable because they were elected for a tenure for 7th Edo State House of Assembly and their working days started counting the day they are due for inauguration. “Once you are absent, you are absent and if they refuse to show up to perform their legislative business, it is going to be counted against them as absenteeism. The section of the Constitution, which the National Assembly is basing its argument is not applicable to the Edo case, because, business is going on in the House. “They have just approved the list of Commissioners-nominee sent to them by the governor and with that, you cannot say they are not sitting. Again, the members are not fighting themselves. So, the National Assembly members have no reason to interfere in the business of the Edo Assembly. They should look at the case of Honourable Oloyo vesus the Bendel State House of Assembly. It will guide them.” Reps’ Action On Edo Assembly Is Hasty A former Councillor and party chieftain, said: “The action of the NASS in respect of the upheaval in the Edo State House of Assembly is a little bit hasty. Has the NASS explored all avenues to restore normalcy in the Assembly before taking the action? “Are members of the NASS the representatives of the various constituencies in Edo State? Has the NASS heard from the major stakeholders in Edo State to ascertain the way forward? If you direct the IGP and the DSS DG to seal the Assembly for you to have a fresh inauguration of the House, how are you sure the two warring parties will be pacified? “I had expected the NASS to call Governor Obaseki and his now estranged godfather, Adams Oshiomhole, to a roundtable discussion to solve the problem.”