Nnewi –  Surveyor Donatus Enendu, the immediate past chairman of the Federal Housing Estate Landlord Association 3-3 Onitsha has denied his involvement in an alleged embezzlement of the estate funds during his tenure amounting to a total of Nine Million Four Hundred and Ninety Thousand, Eight Hundred and Thirty Naira (N9,490,830.00).
The said fund was a voluntary donation made to the estate by a former Anambra State Commissioner for Local Government, Chief Mrs. Azuka Enemuo for the building of a health centre in the estate as well as other proceeds he collected when he was in office.
Speaking to newsmen on the backdrop of a report by an auditing firm, ANNCO associates indicting him of financial mismanagement during his tenure in office, a copy which he made available to newsmen, Surveyor Enendu noted that the entire report was a frame up by his detractors to tarnish his good image which he has laboured for years to build as a former town union president of his community and a foremost surveyor in Anambra State adding that the so called report was a fraud, bogus, unprofessionally carried out as it is full of contradictions.
Said he: “From my inquiry from the apex body of accountants in Nigeria (ICAN), I was told that the head of the auditing firm who carried the report was fake and not an accountant prompting the association to issue an order to the police for the arrest of the man for impersonation. Look my brother I know people behind this blackmail. There is a group of mafia in the estate who calls themselves the Twelve Apostles or wise men.
They are the people engineering this because I refused to agree with them during my tenure to compromise the estate funds for frivolities. I insisted on developments projects like erosion control, sanitation, security, construction and maintenance of roads and building of health centre which was ongoing before I left office.”
It would be recalled that not long ago, the authorities of the Federal Housing Estate 3-3 Onitsha, in a bid to maintain transparency on the use of the estate funds, hired an Onitsha based auditing firm, ANNCO associates to audit the account of the estate beginning from 2012 to 2016 when Surveyor Enendu was in office.
According to the report, the auditing firm, after carrying out the job came up with a report indicting the former chairman and ordered him to refund a total of N9,490,830, being an unaccounted amount he spent in office when he was the chairman of the estate.