LAGOS  – The delay by President Mu­hammadu Buhari in re­leasing the names of his would-be ministers after a month of his inauguration for second term has continued to set tongues wagging with many Ni­gerians wondering if the list may not take another six months as it was the case in 2015. It appears the President is deliberately withholding the list of ministers to work in his cabinet as Senate Pres­ident, Ahmad Lawan is yet to receive the list despite the composition of the principal officers of the Senate. Some ranking lawmakers in the Senate had said they were expecting President Bu­hari to submit a list of minis­ters that will form his federal executive council before or by July 2. The lawmakers have hinged their hope on the fact after re­sumption from recess on July 2, they will be sitting for three weeks and will likely proceed on its annual end of session holiday at the end of July to reconvene in September. However a ranking senator from the ruling All Progres­sives Congress (APC) said the list is yet to be sent to the Senate President as the close of business on July 2. “ I am very close to the Senate President and I can categorically tell you that he has not receive any list from Mr. President. I left his office about 10 minutes ago and he is yet to receive any list” he said. Also, the Secretary to the Government of the Federa­tion (SGF), Boss Mustapha, disclosed that the list will be ready after the National As­sembly completes its leader­ship processes. “Mr. President is working on his list or must have con­cluded. He mentioned in his Democracy Day broadcast that he is going to assem­ble competent Nigerians to help him implement his pro­grammes. “He was inaugurated on May 29. We had the Democ­racy Day celebration on June 12. It was a choked-up pro­gramme as we had to work towards the emergence of the leadership of the Nation­al Assembly because there is nothing you can do if their leadership does not emerge. “So far, we have part of the leadership that has emerged. The other part will emerge after they return from their recess. They are reconven­ing on July 2 and it is when they reconvene that we expect they will finish other comple­ments of their leadership.” “There are other key offi­cers needed in the introduc­tion of an executive bill. You don’t go directly to the Senate President; you only write to him. It is the Majority Lead­er, Lead­er, who represents the party in the Senate that has the re­sponsibility of introducing the bill, and he has received the list too. “I believe that within the month of July, he will submit the list. It is then up to the Senate to do the needful and conclude the exercise. I keep emphasising that if you have a very good leadership in the National Assembly, these things can be finished in a period of one week or two” the SGF said. Lawan had yesterday an­nounced the names of prin­cipal officers for both the ruling APC and the minority PDP. Senator Abdullahi Abu­bakar Yahaya from Kebbi State is the new Senate Lead­er, while Ajayi Borofice from Ondo State is Deputy Senate Leader. Former Abia State gov­ernor, Orji Uzor Kalu is the new Senate Chief Whip while Senator Abdullahi Aliyu Sabi from Niger State was announced as the Depu­ty Chief Whip. Sources however told our correspondent that the list may be forwarded soon as the President had on Monday in­vited the two Senior Special Assistants in charge Nation­al Assembly Matters, Ita En­ang who is in charge of Sen­ate and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters( House of Representatives) Umar Yakubu to a closed door meeting. However, speaking with our correspondent, the Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP) said it is unfortunate that President Buhari is holding millions of Nigerians who are suffering as a result of his bad leadership to ransom by hinging the formation of his cabinet on the composi­tion of the leadership of the national assembly. Barr. Taofik Gani, the Pub­licity Secretary of the party in Lagos said the President has chosen loyalty to party politics than being loyal to Nigerians. “Indeed, it is the shameful show of loyalty to the APC than to the nation. The latest excuse they are giving now is that they want their party to constitute the leadership of the National Assembly”. “That is very unfortunate that a President who knows that Nigerians are suffering, who himself has admitted that Nigerians are suffering and promised to pull out 100 million people out of poverty, such a president is now the one held down by party pol­itics”. “Why should it take the na­tional assembly to constitute its leadership before the min­isterial list is sent? Why must the President wait for the na­tional assembly to constitute its leadership before the Pres­ident will send the list to the Senate for screening? We do not need a majority leader or any other leader to ratify and confirm ministerial appoint­ments”. “So, it has confirmed our earlier belief that President Buhari is not in charge of the composition of his cabinet. Otherwise, he ought to have sent it to the National Assem­bly and insist that they pass it in the overall interest of the nation because Nigerians are suffering” he said. On his part, Yinka Odu­makin, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere said it is surprising that instead of constituting his cabinet, the President is quick in im­plementing Ruga settlement for Fulani herdsmen. “It took him six months the last time to put together a cabinet that did not spar­kle in four years. When he came this time around, he said that those who call him Baba Go Slow will be disap­pointed and we thought that he is going to hit the ground running”. “But we don’t know that he will only be fast in implement­ing Ruga and slow in putting up a cabinet. Even appoint­ments that did not require senate confirmation like SGF, Chief of Staff has not been made and yet those people continue to function in office”.