Embassy of the Netherlands in Nigeria has pledged support for a proposed international conference on migration at the instance of Journalists International Forum for Migration (JIFORM) in Nigeria later this year. The pledge is a product of the visit paid to the Deutch Embassy on  Friday, July 26, 2019, on the Victoria Island Lagos. President of the forum, Ajibola Abayomi, the Chief Executive Officer of The Lead Online,  explained that the visit became imperative owing to the growing concerns on migration-related matters as they affect the economies of nations across the globe. He noted that the development was getting worse coupled with the incessant urge among African youths being lured to slavery through several dangerous routes to Europe. He said that JIFORM was committed to reversing the tide through responsible journalism and communication strategies. Ajibola added that the association planned series of advocacies including magazine publication, strategic presentations, position papers and other engagements to further influence government’s policies on migration in due course. These, he averred, would be achieved through collaborations with agencies across nations. The delegation expressed readiness to also support efforts at reintegrating returnees into their communities in Nigeria even as it sought a strong collaboration with the embassy. Speaking, First Secretary of the embassy, Ceceil Groot who represented the Deutch Consular in Nigeria said the organisation would give technical supports, share information strategies, training assistance and moral backing to the conference. Although she was quick to state that the embassy would moderate its financial commitment owing to series of engagements with agencies like International Organisation for Migration (IOM) in the country and other bodies. She said the Consular appreciated the visit but was occupied with other pressing matters at the embassy’s headquarter in the Federal Capital City, Abuja; hence, her secondment to Lagos to receive the association. Ceceil solicited positive reports from the media to encourage returnee migrants to regain their confidence in their respective communities. She noted that many irregular migrants, from findings, were dejected and, therefore,  needed every support in order to regain their confidence and resume normal life having embarked on failed journeys that landed them at slavery and human trafficking camps outside Nigeria. According to her, there was a need for more advocacies and enlightenment on migration issues so as to limit its negative consequences across the globe. She offered to liaise with the leadership of the association on various training programmes to further boost the capacity of its members soon. Other members of the visiting delegation were Muyiwa Lucas, an editor with The Nation Newspapers, Adekunle Micheal Oba, the Chief Executive Officer of Everest News and Bose Adelaja of The Vanguard Newspapers. 