Lagos – “I am in the governorship race because I want to serve the people.I promise, when we are elected by the Grace of God, I shall run a government based on the aspirations of the people.I will be a listening governor. I will attend to the needs of the people.I am here to serve and I will do my best to take the state to greater heights” – Babajide Sanwo- Olu “When Lagos Calls, Sanwo- Olu Listens”. That was one of the campaign slogans of Governor Babajide Sanwo- Olu during the just concluded governorship election. True to his words, developments in Lagos State since May 29 2019 when Sanwo- Olu was inaugurated as the governor of the state shows that he is indeed a servant-leader who listens to the demands of Lagosians and promptly seeks to address them.
Prior before his election, one of the major headaches for Lagosians is the problem of good road networks across the state. The streets of Lagos are riddled with small potholes, which left unattended to become craters which aside causing serious damages to cars also results in traffic gridlocks. Even the state capital, Alausa is not spared as the immediate past administration in the state had to quickly rehabilitate some roads leading to the New Afrika Shrine, Ikeja 24 hours before Emmanuel Macron, French president, visited the legacy building. On his first day in office, Sanwo-Olu while addressing civil servants at the state secretariat, Alausa vow to rid the state of potholes. The governor who said that the first ‘T’ in his policy thrust, ‘THEMES’ stood for Traffic Management and Transportation, added that this would be the first thing he would tackle.
Also, while hosting Muslim faithful in Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja to mark 2019 Eid-el-Fitri, Sanwo-Olu informed them that his government will soon release emergency hotlines to the public to call the Lagos State Public Works for immediate fixing of potholes and roads that need urgent repairs. “Our Public Works Corporation would soon come out and start fixing all the potholes on our roads. We would soon publish the numbers that people can be calling to notify us of wherever there are potholes in the state”. True to his words, the state government released emergency hotlines to the public to call the Lagos State Public Works for immediate fixing of potholes and roads that need urgent repairs.
In order to bring in on board people who shared the same vision with him, the governor also replaced the former General Manager of the Lagos State Public Works and appointed Engr. Daramola Olufemi Olubunmi in his place.
In recent days, many potholes in the state are being fixed. Notable among these are the ones in Grammar School, Ojodu, Agidingbi, some parts of Lagos Island, Ajeromi- Ifelodun. Like the ‘Wake and See’ projects in Benin, most of the projects are being carried out in the night with Lagosians waking up to see that bad portions of roads in their areas have been fixed.
Lauding the governor, Alhaja Alimot Shadia, a trader in Ogba area of Lagos said the governor through his action has proven that he is a listening governor who is committed to alleviating the suffering of Lagosians.
“ Governor Sanwo-Olu is indeed a listening governor and he keeps to his promise. We woke up here and discovered that our road has been fixed. This has greatly rduced traffic here as vehicles which normally wriggle their ways out now move seamlessly” she said.