Lagos  – The Chairman of Air Peace, Mr. Allen Onyema, has lamented that the Nigerian Government was intentionally impoverishing the country’s airlines by granting multiple entry points to foreign carriers. He also accused the government of not supporting the nation’s carriers unlike other governments around the world, saying that without government support, the airlines would continue to die in droves. Onyema stated this yesterday in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) in an interview with some select journalists, during the celebration of the airline’s maiden flight to Sharjah and Dubai, UAE. He declared that with the continuous opening of the major airports to foreign carriers, capital flights would continue, while Nigerians would continue to be jobless in the country. He explained that joblessness in the country had fueled social crimes, militancy and terrorism in Nigeria, warning that if the government does not reverse its policy on multiple entries to foreign carriers, the crises would worsen. He threatened to shut the Dubai route if government and its officials continued to show apathy to the challenges facing the local carriers especially in the foreign lands, stressing that none of the airlines could play international aero politics without the support of the government. He said: “The Nigerian Government cannot support me when I am coming to UAE and there are plans to increase the frequencies of a UAE airline into Nigeria again. That is not support. That is indirectly killing our own. If that happens, I will not even waste time, I will close this route and I will tell Nigerians the reason I am closing it because I can’t compete like that. “That is unfair competition. You do not allow foreign airlines to feast on your nation’s economy. Forget where I am coming from; let us think about Nigeria first. “We can only remain here so far we get support, government protecting us from international aero politics. We have Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) arrangement with UAE; Emirates is doing 21 frequencies weekly into Lagos and Abuja, while Etihad operates seven weekly into Lagos, this is the only time that a Nigerian airline is coming. ‘So, we should allow it to be, but unfortunately, Nigerians are not supporting their own. Air Peace is acting as a catalyst to the Nigerian economy; an airline doing about 110 landings daily within the country, such an airline should be praised.” Onyema also unveiled plans by the management to increase the fleet of its Boeing 777 aircraft to six before the end of 2019, saying that Johannesburg, South Africa was next in line of international routes to be flown by the airline. He assured that the route would commence before the end of August, stressing that other international routes would also kick-start before the end of the year. He lamented that it took over three years before the government of South Africa could grant it approval to fly into its country, noting that the recently signed Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) was a fraud against Nigeria.