The mega-billion Naira promotion, ‘Bag of Goodies’, launched by the Dangote Cement Plc during the week has started generating excitement among the consumers of the company’s brand as winners tarted to emerge just hours after the launch in Lagos.
Joseph Makoju, the company’s Group Managing Director, had disclosed that not less than 21 million users of Dangote cement would win various prizes, while the promo would last, disclosing that lucky consumers would go home with 43 cars, 24 tricycles, 24 motorcycles, 550 refrigerators, 400 television sets, 300,000 Dangote foods goodies packs and recharge cards for all networks worth N200,000,000.00
The excitement came just as the National Lottery Regulatory Commission commended the company’s management for the foresight in running such a humongous promo meant to reward the end users for the first time in the building industry.
Visits to some of the redemption centres across the country, showed that winners had emerged just hours after the launch as they thronged the centres to collect the items won.
Dangote Cement, Lagos Regional Director, Mr. Tunde Mabogunje, said the consumers were too excited at the promo and had been coming forward to collect their winnings explaining that one of users of the cement who bought 10 bags had scratch cards with N10,000 cash winnings in nine out of the 10 bags.
According to him, scores of people had come to redeem their winning cards for recharge cards worth Tthousands of naira, pointing out that the promo was a deliberate effort at rewarding the consumers and that the company was happy the consumers were winning.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Nkiru Onuzulu, Deputy Director and Coordinator of the Lagos Liaison Office of the ommission, commended Dangote Cement Plc for putting in place a promo specifically to economically empower end users of their product, noting that such promo was not common in the industry. She also vouched for the integrity of the redemption process, saying the commission approved and endorsed the promo, and would be working closely with the company to ensure the success of the entire process. Makoju, who was represented by the Group Executive Director of Dangote Industries Limited, Knut Ulvmoen, had said the company decided to run the biggest promo ever in Nigeria as a way of contributing to the economic wellbeing of the consumers of its products given the prevailing economic situation.