ABUJA – The management of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) on Friday raised alarm on unwholesome practice of business men and traders who are selling industrial animal hides as food article.
In a press statement signed by the Director General of NAFDAC, Prof. Moji Adeyeye alerts Nigerians on the incidence, saying, the agency has increased the tempo of aggressive routine inspections to monitor activities of these merchants to ensure that only food grade animal hide is sold as food article in markets.
According to her, “As far back as 2015, following intelligence reports, the agency, through Investigation and Enforcement Directorate, had been successfully dealing with isolated cases of dangerous diversion of animal hides meant for industrial use into the food chain for consumption as local delicacy Ponmo. This practice poses grave danger to public health.
“Investigations revealed that some of the companies legally imported hides from countries such as Lebanon and Turkey, while majority of the products were smuggled into the country through the porous borders.
“These imported animal hides are meant for industrial use by leather industries for the manufacture of items such as shoes, bag, belt etc. The hides, therefore, are pretreated with industrial chemicals which are not of food grade and will be toxic and injurious to human health. Health hazards inherent in the consumption of such animal hides include risk of Liver, Kidney and Heart damage, increased risk of Aplastic Anaemia, Central nervous system toxicity, Cancer, etc,” she reiterated.
The DG NAFDAC also warned livestock farmers that industrial animal hides can also not be used to manufacture animal feed, as the associated chemicals will be stored in the tissues of these animals and will eventually end up in humans when consumed with the attendant deleterious effects listed above.
The general public has been urged to be vigilant and exercise discretion when purchasing animal hides, Ponmo and other food items.
“NAFDAC is fully alive to her responsibilities of assuring the safety, wholesomeness and quality of processed foods offered for sale to the public,” the DG said.