LAGOS – The management of Gokada, an on-demand motorbike hailing service has said that the operations has achieved 99.8 per cent safety record since coming onboard in 2018. The management of the motorbike company said that the 99.8 per cent record was achieved across nearly two million rides through its platforms. Mr. Ayodeji Adewunmi, the Co-Chief Executive officer (CEO), Gokada said that since the commencement of operations last year, the brand had further enhanced safety on the road. He explained that the management of the technology-driven alternative transportation platform for quick intra-city mobility would not relent on its efforts to sustain the tempo and improve on it. Adewunmi recalled that before the commencement of operations by Gokada, commercial motorcycles were believed to have been responsible for about 69 per cent of the road accidents in Lagos. He insisted that the brand was focused on changing the face of transportation in Nigeria by leveraging technology to connect users to the nearest motorbikes within their location, helping them reach their destination quicker without the inhibition of traffic jam. “We were committed to reversing this ugly trend by prioritising the safety of our pilots and the thousands of customers who ride on our bikes. In pursuit of this goal, we upskilled our drivers, expanded their capacity for defensive driving and put in place mechanism to comprehensively track every ride for any incident. “While all our customers are assured of safety, we still have a structure in place that allows rapid medical response in the unlikely event of an accident. However, our ultimate objective is to achieve a zero-incident milestone across our operations,” he said. In his remarks, Mr. Tola Bakare, Gokada’s Emergency Response Officer, said the company prioritised the safety of its customers beyond any other goal in the organisation. According to him, the company through its various devices, constantly monitor all its pilots’ trips to ensure that in the event of an unlikely incident, its first responders would be at the scene to provide emergency attention to the victim. “These responders are adequately trained and skilled for this purpose,” he said. Since the commencement of operations, Gokada has trained and on-boarded thousands of motorcycles and professionally trained pilots. In its quest to change the face of transportation in Nigeria and subsequently Africa, Gokada plans to have more motorcycles in Lagos metropolis.