LAGOS – In more than a way, the newly constituted cabinet of the Akwa Ibom State government under the leadership of Governor Udom Emmanuel is exceptionally different. A number of differences could be spotted from what is usually the case in forming executive councils, either at state or federal level. The 19-commissioners-and-two-special-advisers structure was inaugurated on July 11. The names of the executive council members was sent to the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly on June 25, 28 days after Emmanuel was sworn-in for second term. Though it could not be said to have been quite early, Emmanuel emerged among first crop of heads of executive organ of government in the new dispensation from May 29, 2019 that formed executive council. Relating to months-long delay in forming executive council, which has been the trend of President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government since 2015, the Akwa Ibom State governor’s action on this particular case, has been adjudged by some political analysts as a mark of a politician with leadership preparation. A major striking difference that worth being called change in continuity is retention of cabinet officials that the governor worked with till the expiration of his first tenure. In Nigeria, forming a new executive with many new faces by reelected leaders at state and federal levels seems to be unwritten code. Instead, all but one among 21 persons appointed and assigned portfolios by the governor worked with him in his second term. The development is, however, remarkable for those who see it as a measure to sustaining stability and ensuring consistency of policies, and unremarkable to those who view government appointments as tickets to making money, hence the consideration that the governor is enriching those who have already been made rich and depriving those yearning to become richer. Meanwhile, Emmanuel’s action is not unexpected. Shortly after his victory at the last general elections, he had disclosed that he would carry on with almost all those he worked with before the end of his first term. That is why some pundits view that particular political exercise as a mark of a promise keeper. The only fresh appointee in the executive council is Mr Okpolupm Etteh, a businessman and former Majority Leader of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, who is now Special Duties Commissioner. He was the first runner-up in 2014 PDP governorship primaries that Udom emerged winner and went ahead to win the main 2015 Akwa Ibom governorship election for his first term. Nonetheless, Emmanuel has advised analysts not to dissipate energy on permutations regarding the retention of all the cabinet officials. He hit it on the nail that the answer to his action could only be found in his head. Four commissioners among those Emmanuel inherited from the immediate past administration of Godswill Akpabio have been retained. Among them is Mrs Glory Edet, who was appointed Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Welfare in June 2013. Though she is still heading the ministry, her portfolio has broadened following curious renaming of the office as Ministry of Agriculture and Women Affairs. She remains the longest serving commissioner in the Udom Emmanuel administration, a previledge that earlier earned her the informal sobriquet of Dean College of Commissioners. Other cross-over commissioners from the immediate past administration are Messrs. Akan Okon, who is now overseeing a re-christened Ministry of Economic Development and Ibom Deep Seaport; Monday Uko, who is still manning the Ministry of Youths and Sports; and Uwemedimo Nwoko, who by the reappointment has become, so far, the longest Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the state. Nwoko was first sworn into the office on January 13, 2015, less than five months before the expiration of Akpabio’s two-term tenure of eight years. He was the fourth chief law officer of the state under the governorship era of Akpabio. Given Nwoko’s antecedent in rights activism, dogged private legal practice and expertise in maritime law, his first appointment and reappointment by the succeeding governor in that 2015 was considered by some perceptive minds as synergy strategy at the instance of Emmanuel and Akpabio to boost legal spines of the government’s industrialization agenda and reinvigorate the rule of law in state. By retaining some of the commissioners that had a stint in the Akpabio administration, Emmanuel has proved wrong the opinion by some bookmakers that he would not keep his promise but would discard with remnant of Akpabio’s political appointees. It was also gathered that since Emmanuel was not only Secretary to the State Government but an heir apparent in the last two years of his predecessor there was the likelihood that he had had hands in their earlier appointment. The reappointment of Mr. Ukpong Akpabio (Ministry of Trade and Investment), whose appointment last year was as a result of resignation of his cousin, Ibanga Akpabio, after the “uncommon defection” of the former governor, has reinforced a point that Emmanuel is actually making in-road into the extended family of his estranged godfather. Other cabinet officials are Messrs. Ime Ekpo (Lands and Water Resources), Nse Essien (Education), Nsikan Nkan (Finance), Ephraim Inyang (Works), Ekong Sampson (Environment and Petroleum Resources) Charles Udoh (Information), Orman Esin (Culture and Tourism) and Iniobong Essien (Science and Technology). There are also Dominic Ukpong (Health), Udo Ekpenyong (Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs), Uno Etim Uno (Transport and Solid Minerals), Raphael Bassey (Housing) and Victor Inoka (Labour and Manpower Planning). Aside, there are two Special Advisers – Mr. Sunday Ibuot (Political and Legislative Affairs) and Mrs Ekemini Umoh (Rural Development and Cooperatives). By making Seaport a full fledge ministry along with that of Economic Development, it is perceived that the strategy is aimed at giving deserved attention to the deep seaport at Ibaka in Mbo local government area in the state, thereby giving speedy drive to the government’s industrialization programme. That Thursday, which the state Executive Council was inaugurated, was Emmanuel’s 53rd birthday. Though it could not be said to be a coincidence, there was no dwelling of matters of the day on the birthday. The inauguration shifted attention drastically from merry-making and lavish ceremony that normally shape birthdays of such topnotch politicians. In his admonition to the new executive members, Emmanuel was at his witty best. According to him, two classes of people are involved in effecting change in a society: those that manage change and those that create change. He added that “Not working hard is the answer, but working smart”. He revealed that his admiration is on those who are smart. He debunked the notion that some ministries are more lucrative than another, stressing that there is no department of the state government that does not have its own brand of goodies. Explaining further on distribution of resources among humans, he said: “so many people have gift but are too lazy to unwrap them.” He added that “extra effort separates two categories of people: those who are good and those who are great”. Emphasising further on performances, which he said the destiny of the people is anchored on, the banker-turned-politician opined that it is only in dictionary that success comes before work. He enjoined the commissioners and special advisers to consider the Akwa Ibom State government as their first focus of where their loyalty goes to.