IBADAN – The Oyo State government on Thursday said it had recovered 14 vehicles from some aides of the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Abiola Ajimobi.
It said the recovery was sequel to the expiration of the ultimatum given by incumbent Governor Seyi Makinde of the state to politicians who served in Ajimobi’s administration, to return all the vehicles they took away.
The state government had accused former Governor Ajimobi and his aides of emptying the state transport pool.
But the former governor, in his response, accused Makinde of pursuing a ‘mundane issue’ in the face of tasking governance ahead.
Mr. Taiwo Adisa, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, on Thursday confirmed the recovery of the vehicles.
However, Adisa informed that 13 of the recovered vehicles had been vandalised while only one was in good condition.
The Governor Makinde’s media aide revealed that some of the vehicles were retrieved from mechanic workshops, while others were recovered from some residences of former Ajimobi’s aides, and one abandoned close to the Agodi, Ibadan, Government House.
Adisa said, “Career officers made phone calls to some officials in custody of government vehicles, after their phone numbers were supplied.
“Some of them responded and gave address of locations where the vehicles were recovered. Some were in the mechanic workshops; others were tracked with device and recovered.
“Surprisingly too, one was parked and abandoned at a road near Agodi Government House where security agents were alerted. They went there to tow it to the Government House. Thirteen of the recovered vehicles are not working as they had been vandalised one way or the other.
“They completely ran them down for reasons best known to them. The recovered vehicles are still far cry from those taken away because if just an official made away with 11 vehicles, you can imagine how many vehicles are still in their possession?
“Investigation is still on to ascertain those vehicles bought in the last one year and which are still missing. And there is no record of payment for those either purchased or boarded by the said officials. They can be accused of car theft especially if they are in custody of a vehicle without receipts of purchase.”