Fifty-six days after his second term inauguration, President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, unveiled the list of 43 ministerial nominees to occupy his cabinet. While some stakeholders are rejoicing and praising Mr. President for the nomination of their favourite candidates, others are still in a state of distress and limbo. In Ogun State, the immediate-past Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Olamilekan Adegbite, was nominated by President Buhari and was among the first 10 to be screened by the Senate on Wednesday. His eventual inclusion in the ministerial list was a compensation for former Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s fierce loyalty to President Buhari. The capacity of Senator Amosun to influence the appointment of his former commissioner despite his suspension by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) further reaffirmed that he has the President’s listening ears. The Ogun Central Senatorial District Senator at the National Assembly fell out with APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole; and leader, Bola Tinubu; as well as the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo; former governor Olusegun Osoba and current governor, Dapo Abiodun, over the APC primaries during the last gubernatorial election in Ogun State. The nomination journey at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, was an epic battle between Amosun, Tinubu, Osoba and Abiodun. While Osoba was alleged to have submitted the name of Segun Adesegun (Amosun’s Deputy Governor, 2011- 2015), Abiodun on his part was said to have nominated Bimbo Ashiru (Amosun’s Commissioner for Commerce & Industry, 2011-2019). Ashiru was also an APC gubernatorial aspirant in the 2019 gubernatorial race. Asiwaju Tinubu was said to have lobbied on behalf of Wale Edun, a one-time Finance Commissioner in Lagos State, while Amosun stuck to the choice of Adegbite as his nominee. United we stand, divided we fall. As it is in Ogun, so it is in Edo State. Governor Godwin Obaseki scored another political goal against Comrade Adams Oshimhole, as Obaseki’s brother-in-law, Clement Agba, was nominated as minister. Agba is married to Obaseki’s first cousin. He was also a former commissioner under Oshiomhole. Erstwhile Minister of State for Health, Dr. Ehanire Osagie, also made the list from Edo State. However, it was learnt that Oshiomhole’s nominees were Rt. Hon. Patrick Obahiagbon and Rt. Hon. Samson Osagie. Oshiomhole was said to have nominated Obahiagbon for the post of minister as a compensation for his failure at the Senatorial election held earlier this year. Samson Osagie was also nominated to compensate the Pius Odubu camp in Edo politics. Odubu was Oshiomhole’s deputy as a former governor of Edo State. You can’t beat the dynamics of politics.