ABUJA – Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), in partnership with the Faculty of Technical and Vocational Education of the University of Nigeria Nsukka, would begin the training of artisans, tillers and the operators of small and medium enterprises designed to enhance their skills for optimal performance.
Dr. Johnson Anene, Vice President of ACCI, who revealed this in Abuja at a media briefing, also announced that the 4th Abuja Investment Expo would commence today (Tuesday).
Anene lamented that most Nigerian artisans and tillers lacked requisite skills to deliver excellent jobs.
He added that many Nigerians would prefer to engage the services of Togolese, Senegalese, Nigerien and Ghanaians in the area of tilling because these foreigners provide quality jobs more than their Nigerian counterparts.
To guard against this negative trend, Anene said the training would be flagged-off during the three-day Abuja Investment Expo slated for July 30 to August 1.
He noted that ACCI, through its Business Entrepreneurship and Skills Training(BEST) Centre, was working with National Association of Small Scale Industrialists to ensure that the skills of the members of the association are sharpened, adding that estate developers over the years have been bearing the brunt of bad workmanship exhibited by Nigerian artisans and tillers.
Commenting on the Investment Expo, he assured that Expo would ensure that houses in Abuja were sold at affordable prices with easy payment plans.
He further disclosed that rent to ownership scheme would be introduced, to encourage tenants to own houses, adding that the Forum would encourage local production of building materials to bring down the prices of houses in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and the nation in general.
Therefore, he called on the government to provide infrastructure and enabling environment for the private sector to thrive, adding that buildable land should be provided to real estate developers to bridge the 17 million housing deficits Nigeria has been grappling with.
Anene, who is also the Chairman of Shelter Aid Organisation, also identified high cost of land, building materials, high interest rate on mortgage loans and high cost of labour as being responsible for outrageous cost of housing in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.