ABUJA – Ameh Ebute, the Second Republic Senate President, has written a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, wherein he accused former President Olusegun Obasanjo of championing a conspiracy campaign to destabilise the nation and undermine the current government.
In the letter forwarded to Buhari on Friday, Ebute opined that the ex-president’s recent outburst was borne out of frustration against the current administration.
However, Ebute urged President Buhari not to be deterred by Obasanjo and his veiled agents, whom he accused of desperately looking for a way to return Nigeria back to the old, gloaming days.
The letter reads in part: “I was perplexed that recently, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, an elder statesman, who openly opposed your reelection ambition for no logical reasons and indeed, worked for your defeat by backing your strongest rival in the presidential poll again, wrote another open epistle to you.
“It is, however, not surprising to many of us who have had to tolerate his excesses as statesmen in various capacities.
“And while you have not faulted anyone of them in the exercise of their democratic rights to freedom of choice, but surprisingly and expectedly, Obasanjo enviously regurgitated the same old, stale, puerile and, whitewashed tales about your presidency and impressive leadership of the country.
“While I do not intend that this letter serve as a direct response to Chief Obasanjo’s letter, it may serve as a tacit reply to his absurd, farcical, unidealistic, emotional, self-serving and lamentable expression of his emptiness on affairs of Nigeria in blind fury.
“This is because an attempt by any of us to re-write the history of the country will remain a disservice to the younger generation for a long time to come.
“The issues raised by Obasanjo in the latest letter to you, in my understanding, only belittle his status and confirms his egoistic subservience to personal agenda, instead of the collective progress and development of Nigeria which we all sacrificed our comfort and pleasure to pursue. “Your Excellency Sir, without a doubt in my mind and having gone through series of commentaries and replies to Obasanjo from Nigerians who love, cherish and hold Nigeria dear to their hearts; and those who believe in the unity and indivisibility of our country, the dominant voices dismissed the contents of Obasanjo’s letter as irritating hogwash,” Ebute wrote.