Lagos – There was jubilation in Kogi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) last Thursday when Progressive Governors stormed Lokoja, the Kogi State Capital to drum support for the second term ambition of one of their own, Governor Yahaya Bello (GYB) who is seeking reelection under the platform of APC. The governors who said facts on ground shows that Bello has worked hard to merit another term also thanked the teeming party supporters in the State for their unalloyed support for the party. The event took place at the APC state party Secretariat witnessed a high-powered delegation which included the Chairman of the Progressives Governors’ forum and Governor of Kebbi State, Senator Atiku Bagudu, Yobe State Governor,  Alhaji Mai Malla Bunni and other dignitaries. Also among the entourage was the immediate past Governor of Bauchi state, Barrister Mohammed Abubakar who also joined on a thank you visit to the APC party stakeholders over the successful outing the party witnessed in the State during the last General and State Assembly Elections. Bagudu expressed his happiness alongside the other dignitaries to be visiting the State, stating that they came to assure the party leaders and stakeholders of their support of their colleague, Governor Bello. The Progressive Governors’ forum Chairman noted that Governor Bello was a very energetic young man, whose youthful zest has positioned Kogi on the path of progress and development. The Chairman hinted that in a recent meeting of Governors with representatives of world bank, they confirmed that based on the excellent performance of the state on the Nigerian Erosion and Water Management Projects, NEWMAP, Kogi State would soon access about $27million in the other phase of the projects He pointed out that he and the other Governors were well aware that Governor Bello has respect for the APC members and has achieved great feat in the Party affirming that all the Stakeholders had worked very hard to achieve such historic feet. He urged the party stakeholders to continue to believe the Party and be a one strong indivisible household so as to continually emerge victorious. Senator Bagudu commended the newly reconciled former party chairman for noting that he could not fight the party which he has built, stating that such gesture was an elevation of collective interest above selfish gains. He stated that greatness was recognizing individual difference and using such to achieve great result in the interest of the greater number of the party people The Kebbi State Governor further urged the reconciled members to make further effort to also reconcile some other members who were still not with the party in the progressive interest of the APC in the State. In his response, Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello stated that he was highly elated by the visit of the Governors and other delegates which was an indication of the support which has received from the umbrella body which he belonged to. Governor Bello stated that whatsoever feat the APC has achieved in the recently concluded General and State Assembly Elections was a tip of the ice berg as compared to what would be witnessed. The Governor pointed out that his administration has done very well in securing the people of the State, particularly integrating the seemingly divided ethic group to become one united front. He stated that such ideology has been summarised in the fast spreading slogan EBIGO which was an explanation of how far his government has united the major three and other tribes in the State. The Governor opined that the State which was strategically located at the center of the country have so far laid a good example of integration, unity and would also on the long run unite the country. The Governor seized the opportunity to thank the recently reconciled former party chairman of the party, Alhaji Hadi Ametu and members of his executives assuring that he was not a discriminatory leader. He also charged the leader to bring on board other members of the party that may feel aggrieved stating that the room was wide enough to accommodate all as they moved into the next level The Chairman of the APC in Kogi State, Alhaji Abdullahi Bello, thanked all the visiting Governors for finding their time to come to the State, Stating that the APC was gathered together to rejoice with one another over the recent achievements the party has enjoined at all levels. He pointed out to the visiting Governors that Governor Yahaya Bello built and groomed the All Progressives Party to a winning machine. The Chairman revealed that when he became the Chairman of the Party in the State, the Governor owing to his all-inclusive personality charged the Executives to reconcile all aggrieved parties and on the long run such drive has since yielded good fruits as the party has become a one big strong family He said that the Governor’s colleagues were in the State to express their support and solidarity to his reelection bid haven seen his achievements politically and as development was concerned. Alhaji Abdullahi Bello noted that State Party Stakeholders in a previous meeting unanimously adopted indirect primaries format for its primaries owing to the success which the format offered in the last general and state Assembly noting that a ‘winning team does not change formula’. Also speaking at the meeting,  a former senator representing Kogi West, Smart Adeyemi,  asked the governors to tell the national leadership of the APC that he will  work against APC in the governorship election  if  Governor Bello is denied a second term ticket. Adeyemi whjo said said the political destiny of the Western Senatorial district lies in the return of the governor ,added that  for fairness, justice and equity, Governor Bello is the best for the APC in November. “Other senatorial districts have ruled Kogi State for two terms. Now a brother from Kogi central, who has done very well in his first tenure; should also be given another opportunity”. “If Gov. Bello is given the opportunity to lead us for another four years, I am convinced that we in the West will rule Kogi State. “I am using this medium to beg our party leaders not to make the mistake of allowing one to change a winning team in Kogi State. Those who say APC cannot win Kogi under Bello are not God, because he is covenant child. If Governor Bello is denied the APC ticket, some of us might be forced to work against the party”. “We in Kogi State have seen a young, vibrant and detribalised personality in Governor Bello and we have unanimously resolved to work for his re-election come November 16” he said.