LAGOS – The Super Eagles of Nigeria will be the country with the most third-place wins at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), if they beat Carthage Eagles of Tunisia today in their place match of the 32nd Africa Cup of Nations. The match will kick-off at 8pm. Nigeria has won bronze seven times before, three more than Cote d’Ivoire with four wins. Host Egypt with Zambia are next with three wins, while DR Congo, Algeria and Mali have two wins each. Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Ghana, Tunisia, Sudan, Morocco, Ethiopia, South Africa have all won it once. Super Eagles failed to qualify for the final, following their 2-1 loss to Algeria on Sunday night. Odion Ighalo’s penalty had made it 1-1, following William Troost-Ekong’s unfortunate own goal. But Riyad Mahrez stepped up and curled a wonderful free-kick in the 94th minute, to secure his country’s place in the final against Senegal this Friday. The Super Eagles will be looking to end their campaign in Egypt on a high note against the Tunisians. The two counties have met 17 times, including four outings at AFCON. Tunisia are the more successful side, based on previous outings, with six wins while the Super Eagles Eagles have managed five victories. Their first match was in 1961 during the qualifying round for the 1962 AFCON, which ended in 2-1 in favour of Nigeria, while their last meeting – in 2009 during 2010 World Cup qualifying – ended in a 2-2 draw. On the continental stage, Nigeria first played Tunisia in the third-place fixture of the 1978 AFCON in Ghana – the game ended 1-1 but the Super Eagles were awarded a 2-0 win after the Carthage Eagles walked off the field. Nigeria is yet to lose a game against the North Africans at AFCON, managing a run of two wins and two draws. Today’s fixture will make the Super Eagles the team with the most AFCON third-place playoff games [7]. They have won their previous six outings, but Tunisia have won only one of their three third-place games in the continental competition, in 1962 against Uganda. Meanwhile, the Confederation of African Football (CAF), on Tuesday, named Egyptian Gehad Grisha wii referee the match. Grisha, who became an international referee in 2008 and has featured in every CAF senior competition since 2013, will be assisted by Egyptian Mahmoud Ahmed Kamal and Issa Yaya from Chad, while Joshua Bondo will act as the fourth official.