A classmate of Gover­nor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State at the Government College, Kadu­na, Mohammed Kabiru Yaro, on Tuesday told the Gover­norship Elections Petition Tribunal sitting in Ilorin that the governor possesses gen­uine and authentic West Af­rican Examinations Council (WAEC) certificate. Yaro, an architect, added that AbdulRazaq is his bosom friend and that both of them and other members of the class wrote WAEC in June 1976 at the Government Col­lege in Kaduna, Kaduna State. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its governorship candidate in the March 9th, 2019 election Razak Atunwa are alleging that business mo­gul-turned politician present­ed forged WAEC certificate and presented it to the Inde­pendent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to contest the election. During cross-examination by the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) counsel, Akin Olujimi (SAN), Yaro presented his original WAEC certificate in court for perusal, adding: “I have my own certificate obtained from that WAEC ex­amination.” He also revealed that during their time, WAEC would write their surnames in full and initialise other names. He added that, “Abdul­Rahman, as we used to refer to him, was directly seated in my front and his serial num­ber in WAEC was 199, while mine was 122. “Based on what I know about the certificate of Abdul­Rahman AbdulRazaq, he was very much qualified to contest the March 9th, 2019 election.” Olujimi later tendered the certificate of the witness as evidence. However, counsel to the petitioners, Kingsley Odey, asked to re-cross-examine the witness on his 1976 WAEC cer­tificate adopted as evidence in the spirit of fair hearing. He said, “During the pre-trial session, parties were asked to present documents for identification, but Abdul­Razaq (2nd respondent) did not present his WAEC certif­icate for identification. The presentation of such docu­ment today is a surprise to the petitioners. “Our application is that the petitioners should be given the opportunity to examine the witness on the document in the interest of fair hearing.” Olujimi, however, urged the tribunal to dismiss the ap­plication to re-cross examine the certificate as unmeritori­ous. Said he: “In my limited number of years in practice, I have always known of three categories of examination; ie. examination-in-chief, cross-examination and re-ex­amination. Once a tribunal or court has offered parties the opportunity as may be rele­vant or applied to each party, there is no fourth category of examination that is called re-cross-examination which is what the petitioners’ counsel is praying your lordships.