O’odua Nationalist Coalition, (ONAC), has called on governors in the South West to set up indigenous ranching to deal with the persistent kidnappings and other vices associated with the activities of Fulani herdsmen in the region.
According to the group, the initiative will reduce unemployment and eliminate dependence on the North for cow meat.
It also tasked the governors to use their security votes to secure the lives and properties of the people in the region against possible ethnic violence.
At a press conference on Friday, Chief Johnson Adebola and Olubayo Adeniran, who spoke for a coalition of several pan Yoruba groups under the umbrella of ONAC, called on Yoruba people to sustain their culture of “critical thinking” and avoid being pushed into a premeditated war.
Groups represented at the press conference were Oodua Liberation Movement, (OLM), O’odua Peoples Congress, (OPC), Yoruba Coalition for Justice, (YOCF), Oodua Muslim-Christian Youth Dialogue Group, (OMCYDG), Agbekoya, Oodua Women Congress, (OWC), South West Vigilante Congress, (SWVG) among others.
Over a hundred activists attended the event held in Lagos.
ONAC warned that the current killings can spur ethnic violence if not well managed. It however cautioned that such violence might take the form of anarchy, an ill wind that blows no one any good.
According to the Pan Yoruba coalition, irrespective of the provocation occasioned by kidnapping and mushrooming cases of savage killings, Yoruba people should avoid premeditated ethnic violence in any part of the country, adding that the principle of self-determination is not about ethnic hatred or violence but about the principle of freedom based on age-long values and civilisations of a people and the right of the Yoruba people to determine their political and economic future.
It said the current killings in the country and the careless manner the issue is being handled can tip the country off the cliff into possible genocide.
It also blamed the political leadership for lack of foresight, wisdom and creativity in handling a simple issue that has been allowed to take a complex form.
The group also blamed the South West governors for failing to make any impact in the area of agriculture which is linked to the essentials of human lives.
“It is lack of knowledge that state governors build bridges in communities that have neither drinkable water, housing nor decent food to eat. We have a generation of leaders that have totally abandoned agriculture yet they claim to be investing in human capital.”