Hon Fred Agbedi is one of the leading aspirants on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa state. In this interview with SAM OGIDAN, he spoke on issues he would address when elected. Excerpts: What stands you out from the other aspirants? I am a grassroots politician, who has gone through the crucifix of politics, so I understand what it takes to be a professional politician. When you talk about party administration, I am one of the best in my state known by all. As chairman of the party I was in charge of former Governor Timipre Sylva’s campaigns. I was also part of the Yar’Adua/Goodluck campaign across Nigeria. Today I am agitating, campaigning and going round Bayelsa and Nigeria to say that that burning desire I have to serve my people in greater capacity should be realised in 2019. I am well suited, well qualified, well experienced. I have served my people both in politics and outside politics. I was a businessman as well as a civil servant. It is good to seek the kind of office having strata of experience because there is a lot that the civil service training has got to do when you are in this kind of position because you are going to work with civil servants and you must understand how civil servants work, you must know the rules and regulations of Civil Service. In 1991 when Ekeremor Local Government was created out of Sagbama local government, I was prevailed upon to be the pioneer secretary of the party(National Republican Convention). I didn’t quite wanted to be, but my leadership qualities were identified and leaders as well as elders of the local government insisted that I must lead the party as the secretary. Since I left the civil service I have been an independent man doing business to live my life. I know what it takes to generate money, invest it and make returns. I am fit and suitable to take decisions as to how to generate money in my state to run my government. How close are you to the people you aspire to govern? I am a grassroots politician. I was in Abuja here for the past four years in the 8th Assembly. I never stayed in Abuja up to 10 weekends. At every week I am in and out of my state and my federal constituency because I am a man of the people. What are Bayelsans yearning for? They are yearning for a man who is resident with them. They are yearning for a man who stays in Bayelsa with them. They are yearning for a man they can see without asking for where he is. I am very comfortable telling Bayelsans that I want to govern them. I am the only aspirant who knows every community in Bayelsa state; I am conversant with the needs, aspirations and pains of the people. Some governors are far removed from the people after election and may not even be aware if their directives on issues affecting the welfare of the people are carried out. What is your take on this? I see the position of the governor as a supervisor. Once you have competent people around you, all you need to do is supervise them. If I visit your community and ask about a sector, the first person who is going to speak is the line officer. Governance is service, we are to serve our people. Those who don’t understand that the governor is a servant of the people think that the money in the state is their money. If you are given a public office to hold, you are a servant to the people and you must so put yourself in that position and that is what I believe in. What are you bringing on board if elected the governor of Bayelsa State? Governor Dickson has done his best. If I am elected today as governor of Bayelsa state, what the people expect is that I do my best. Nobody can completely meet all the demands and yearnings of the people. One thing that I think is paramount, other than the federal allocation in this feeding bottle democracy that we are practicing, what are the resources in Bayelsa that you can harness to generate internal revenue with which you can run government in Bayelsa state. That is a priority in my administration. We need to deal with the issues of vocational education. It is very critical to grow the people’s desire to be independent, self-employed and then run businesses and trade of their own to enable them make a living for themselves. We have abandoned research for a very long time. We have raw materials. If you vote quality finances for research, you will always turn out report of raw materials in your environment that you can develop which will also get people gainfully employed. In Bayelsa we have raffia palms that are tapped with which they process gin, the gin which the colonial masters described as illicit gin. Till today we are still at that level of illicit gin. If they were the kind of some exported or imported drinks that people should be consuming, we are still at that level because of lack of research and investment. People have even vacated that trade and that was the trade that gave our people a lot of money. Research is going to form a cardinal part of my agenda so that people will know what kind of resources you have in your environment and how you can harness them to get yourself gainfully employed as well as generate revenue for the state. Bayelsa has Gatala farms, why must we go the way of selling crude oil? Like Nigeria has failed herself by selling the raw materials. It is better that you turn that your raw material to finished products. There is need for us to ensure that we build a modular refinery which will assess the crude that will be produced from Gatala farms to produce finished products for us to gainfully employ our people in the refineries and ensure that we make more profit rather than selling the raw crude. If you compare the price of crude oil to palm oil, palm oil is more expensive than crude oil. Now we have lost focus completely on the issue of palm oil whose price is more expensive than that of crude oil. But because nobody wants to be involved in planting and process it, government will need to encourage that. Our governor is doing so much to bring the age deep seaport to fruition. If there were Bayelsans who have one to five billion to invest in it, you will see that foreign investors will be happy to partner with them. But if there are Bayelsans like that, you will be working hard to convince somebody to leave his country and come invest in a community that he knows nothing about. We will look at core competences of our businessmen and grow them so that they can attract partnerships to come and invest in Bayelsa state.