A woman has been sexually assaulted at TRNSMT festival in Glasgow.
The 32-year-old woman was grabbed by a man as she visited the toilet block close to the main stage at around 10pm yesterday evening (July 12). The man pulled her around the back of the block where another man sexually assaulted her. The pair ran away after three men who were passing by shouted at them, scaring them away.
Police are now appealing for information about the incident and are keen to trace the three men who scared off the woman’s attackers as what they saw could prove “vital” to finding those responsible for the attack. DS Euan Keil said: “The woman was making her way to the toilets when she was grabbed by one man and pulled to the rear of the toilet block, where another man sexually assaulted her.
“Her attackers fled when they were disturbed by three men who were walking by the area and who shouted at them. I don’t think the three men realised what was actually going on or that their intervention probably stopped this attack from escalating “It is important that we trace them as what they saw could prove vital to us catching the two men responsible.” The suspects are both described as white, around 1.8 metres tall, of medium build with dark hair. One was wearing a black t-shirt with a small logo on the front and the other a white t-shirt with black writing.
A statement from TRNSMT festival to the BBC said: “We are doing everything possible to help emergency services with their inquiries but our focus at this moment is the wellbeing of the person involved, and we are ensuring that they have all the support that they need.” Last year, a study found that 70 per cent of women were concerned about sexual assault at music festivals, and 69 per cent of women were concerned about sexual harassment.
The research, led by Durham University, also revealed that around 30 per cent of women said that they had been sexually harassed at a music festival themselves, while 10 per cent said that they had been sexually assaulted at UK music festivals. “These figures are shocking but not surprising as this is just more evidence that women fear for their safety at live music festivals,” said Mel Kelly of Safe Gigs for Women in a statement after the reports publication. “This fits anecdotally with what we hear every day. Hopefully organisers hear this and respond appropriately.” The study came after other figures revealed that sexual harassment or assault has been experienced by nearly one in five people at British music festivals.    