IBADAN – Scores of members of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and Non-Academic Staff of Universities (NASU) from Western Zone on Wednesday stormed the University of Ibadan to protest the non-implementation of court ruling on teachers in the university’s staff school.
The protesting SSANU and NASU members from different institutions, as well as the affected teachers of the UI staff school, dressed in black attires and carried placards with different inscriptions.
Addressing newsmen, Comrade Alfred Jimoh, National Vice President SSANU, Western Zone, stated that the protest was against the lingering issue of staff schoolteachers in the Nigerian universities.
Jimoh said, “In December 5, 2016, the National Industrial Court ruled in our favour that government supposed to be paying salaries of the staff in the University Staff Schools but up till now government has not implemented the court judgment.
“We are using this protest to tell Nigerians that enough is enough of this disregard of government to the rule of law.”
“How can a court of competence jurisdiction give a ruling over an issue and government will be dragging its feet.
“This matter affects lives of Nigerians; all the staff school teachers are Nigerians.
“We are calling on Mr. President and every stakeholders in this regards to expedite their action.
“We are asking for immediate reinstatement of our members in staff schools to the payroll of the various universities where they are working.”
The SSANU National Vice President, Western zone, also revealed that another reason for the protest was the issue of earned allowance, which was now causing tension in the university system.
Jimoh lamented that, “The N25 billion earned allowance that was released, which the government promised will be to everybody in the system is another reason for this protest.
“It was released to the universities and not to the union.
Similarly, the National Public Relations Officer (PRO) of SSANU, Comrade Salam Abdulsobur, said it was unfortunate that the Federal Government has not obeyed the ruling, almost three years after.
“This is three years now and we are yet to get an implementation of the court judgment in almost all the universities. University of Ibadan being the foremost of them; where a large number of teachers in the university staff have been paid only percentages of their due salaries instead of the whole.
“We are disappointed and we expressed our dismay that a Federal Government as the one we have today that is supposedly to be operating under the rule of law can still be denying the existence of a court judgment.