LAGOS – Algeria Coach, Djamel Belmadi, has revealed their strategy in beating Super Eagles in their Africa Cup of Nations semi-final on Sunday. Algeria captain, Riyad Marez, scored a 90th minute free kick that all but ended Super Eagles fourth trophy ambition winning 2-1 “We had to make a plan for Nigeria. We know that they used Ahmed Musa and Samuel Chukwueze directly with a lot of pace. “We tried to close those spaces. I also know that their defenders are very good, but not very fast. If you run at them, they struggle. “The players made an amazing first half. We deserved to score more goals in that first half. In the second half we had a difficult moment for around 15 minutes where we were under pressure. “After the Super Eagles scored the penalty, my players showed great attitude and mental strength and coming back until the end, fighting”, he said. Belmadi said that they have already put behind them the victory and were working ahead for a successful final match against the Teranga Lions of Senegal on Friday in Cairo. On Sunday, a last gasp goal from star Riyad Mahrez led Algeria to reach the 2019 AFCON final after defeating Nigeria 2-1. Meanwhile, Belmadi wants African countries to trust in their local coaches after Algeria and Senegal reached the final of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. The Teranga Lions saw off the challenge from Tunisia in extra-time, thanks to Dylan Bronn’s own goal while the Desert Foxes battled to a 2-1 victory over Nigeria with Riyad Mahrez scoring the decisive goal. Both countries are led by their former players who are in their early 40s, with Belmadi in charge of the Desert Foxes while Aliou Cisse, who captained the Teranga Lions to the 2002 Africa Cup of Nations final, manages Senegal. “It’s a great message that we have sent to those responsible for football in all countries in Africa, it’s amazing,” Belmadi told the media. “I’ve known Cisse for a very long time, we used to play against each other when we were both in France. The only difference between us is that he’s been with his team for four years and I have been here for one. “To play this final against Senegal, against my friend, is amazing. I hope the decision-makers can think more about this and put trust in our young coaches.” Algeria will be competing in the final of the continental tournament for the first time in 29 years, after winning the trophy in 1990. Friday’s match will be Senegal’s second appearance in the final of the competition, after finishing as runners-up to Cam