LAGOS – The Anti –Cultism Unit of the Lagos State Police Command has arrested a 21-year- old mechanic, Chidiebere Simon who said he was initiated into the Vikings (JVC) Fraternity cult group by his cousin. The suspected cultist, Simon, who is a Junior Secondary school drop-out who was arrested in Ilaje, Costain area of Lagos State for cultism and breach of public peace said his Cousin mastermind his initiation into the Vikings Confraternity without his consent. Daily Independent gathered that Luck ran against him when he was nabbed by Operatives of the Anti-cultism unit headed by the Commander, Lagos police command, led by Chief Superintendent of Police,CSP, Uduak Udom. While speaking exclusively to Daily Independent, the Ebonyi state born cultist who claimed he was initiated by his cousin said, his detention in the police custody has made him realised that cultism is very bad. According to him, he dropped out of Junior Secondary School three (JSS 3) because he could not further his education due to his father’s blindness. Simon said: “I stopped my education at Junior Secondary School three (JSS 3) and after then I moved to Lagos to start helping my mum in her business, she sells banana. “The reason why I didn’t further my education is because my father has eye problem, he is blind, so he could no longer sponsor my education. I usually go to the Lagos Island market to sell fairly used clothes. “I am a member of Junior Vikings. I was introduced to the cult group by my cousin, his name is Amos. Speaking on what brought him into the police net, he said: “I have a misunderstanding with one of my friends, his name is Henry, he is one of the junior ‘Vikings’  (JVC) cult group. He is one of us but because he has his father’s backing due to the fact that he is one of the local vigilantes in my area. “We didn’t fight physically, we only exchange words but he went to report to the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of the Vigilante group and he invited me. I went there myself without suspecting anything since I didn’t have anything against him but on getting there, the man handcuffed me and said I was threatening Henry. “I joined the JVC in my village when I went for my grandfather’s burial in year 2017, some of my friends from the village also attended the burial because I schooled there, so after the party that day, they asked me to follow them to a place and I followed them. “When we got to the place, they tied my face and poured a hot drink (Squadron) on my head and also gave me some to drink, after then, I was told that I am now a member of Vikings cult group. “Since I joined the cult group, I have not kill anyone and my group members have not killed anybody too. “My kind of person is not someone who fights, the few fights I had gotten myself involved in, is when someone oppress people that are close to me. Like the one that happened the last time, what happened was that a guy slapped my sister all because she refused to date him, I didn’t even fight him immediately but he was trying to act as if he is stronger than me, that is why I interfered. I fought the guy personally.” While advising other youths like him, “Simon said I have realised that cultism is very bad because of the things I have seen here while in detention. “If I am released, I promised to go back to my state, because once I remain in Lagos, fellow cult members will be disturbing and frustrating me to continue moving with them. “I want to go back to my work as a Mechanic, I have also made up my mind to disassociate myself from cultism. I promise to shun anything that has to do with cultism,” he said.