The listing of MTN Nigeria Communications Plc and Airtel Africa Plc on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), in about two months interval, has brought improvement to the market capitalisation, which was heading towards depreciation below N9 trillion, Bamidele Ogunwusi writes The decision of two of the leading telecommunication companies, MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa, to list on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange was seen by stakeholders in the nation’s capital market as a welcome development which is also good for the economy. But for the listing of MTNN and Airtel Africa Plc, the market capitalisation of the NSE would have depreciated to N8.9 trillion. However, the stock exchange has the two telcos to thank for the high level of market capitalisation still being maintained despite the rout in the market. Before now, efforts have been made by the Federal Government to bring these companies to list of the Exchange.  These efforts, however culminated in the May 16, 2019 listing by introduction of 20.35 billion (20,354,513,050) ordinary shares of MTN Nigeria Communications Plc (“MTN Nigeria”) at N90 per share on its Premium Board. However, when MTNN had its 20.35 billion shares listed on the local bourse at N90 per share and rose to N99 per share on May 16, the market capitalisation jumped to N12.458 trillion. MTNN added N1.832 trillion to the capitalisation. And following the appreciation of shares of MTNN to N128.00 translating to N2.605 trillion, the market capitalisation further rose to N13.666 trillion as at Wednesday, July 17, 2019. Before the listing of MTNN, the equities market capitalisation of the NSE stood at N10.626 trillion, while the NSE All-Share Index was at 28,286.08. On July 9, 2019, there was also the listing of Airtel Africa Plc’s 3,758,151,504 ordinary shares on the main board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange at an offer price of N363 per ordinary share. With the listing, Airtel Africa added N1.36 trillion to the total market capitalisation of the Exchange, further deepening the market. On the day, market capitalisation rose to N14.288 trillion from N13.909. Market Capitalisation, however, dropped to N13.666 trillion after the share price depreciated by 11.02 per cent from N363 to N323 per share as at Wednesday, July 17, 2019. Mr Raghunath Mandava, the Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Africa, said the company was delighted to be listed on the main board of the Exchange. “This is an exciting time for Airtel Africa in the 14 countries it operates in and an important milestone in our development as a leading provider of telecommunications and mobile money services in Africa”, he said. Mr Segun Ogunsanya, the Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director, Airtel Nigeria, said the company remained committed to building a leadership position in the country, describing Nigeria as a great place for business. He noted that investors had been interested to hear the company’s story to invest in the business and share the future with them. Before the listing Before the listing of the telcos, most stocks have depreciated by over 50 per cent, making their prices to be very attractive for long term investors to take advantage of. Although the bearish nature of the equities market is giving many investors concerns, the management of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) may have little to worry about. The NSE is aware that stock markets globally fluctuate and is confidence that the Nigerian market will rebound at certain point. However, the major reason why the NSE may worry less over the current rout is the fact that its market capitalisation has received a major boost from the listing of two telecommunications companies within the last two months. Before the listing on the NSE, Airtel made an initial public offering (IPO) through a book building process to determine the eventual price and volume of shares to be sold to investors. A book building is a process of price discovery, through which the issuer ascertains the demand for the securities being issued and assesses the price at which such securities may be issued before ultimately, determines the quantum of securities to be issued. The company ended up with a price of N363 per share. The shares are being offered to high networth and institutional investors. The directors of Airtel Africa Plc said offering the shares in Nigeria and listing on the NSE would encourage operational discipline through the establishment of an independent capital structure and governance framework following the successful turnaround of the group’s operations. “It will also facilitate measurement of the Group’s continued positive performance against holistic, publicly disclosed metrics as it enters a strong free cash flow phase; introduce an optimal capital structure and enable improved leverage for greater flexibility in pursuing growth opportunities going forward; and provide access to the capital markets and diversification of the Group’s capital base to support the Group’s continued growth. The company intends to use the net proceeds from the offer principally on the reduction of debt, in particular to achieve a targeted leverage ratio of 2.5x based on underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation for the year ended 31 March 2019. Speaking on the listing of the Airtel Africa Plc, Oscar Onyema said it was a promising development in Africa with Airtel Africa being the second company to have its ordinary shares listed on both the LSE and NSE. According to him, this gives credence to the successful partnership between the two exchanges, and encouraging similarly situated companies to explore the different opportunities for raising capital on the exchange’s platform. He said: “Airtel Africa’s listing on the NSE will not only showcase the company as an established player in the African telecommunication industry, but will enable the firm to actualise its strategic vision “To enrich the lives of customers.” This listing is a result of many months of hard work by all parties to the transaction and will add N1.36 trillion to the market capitalisation of the exchange, further deepening the Nigerian capital market. “It will also increase the visibility of Airtel Africa whilst differentiating its brand as a major player in the Telecommunication sector.” The NSE boss said the exchange would continue to support the telecom industry and the real sector by promoting efficient capital formation and allocation, enabling industries to raise long-term funds for growth & expansion of their business to reduce unemployment and sustain Nigeria’s economic growth and development. Speaking earlier on the listing of MTNN Onyema said: “We are delighted to welcome MTN Nigeria to the exchange. This listing is a promising development in the country’s telecommunications sector and we encourage other players in the sector to explore the different opportunities in the capital markets for raising long term capital. “As a listing platform of choice, today’s listing will add to our bouquet of diverse investment offerings to the public. Having MTN Nigeria listed in our market is a testament of the exchange’s commitment to building a dynamic and inclusive market and creating channels for sustainable investment. “This listing will promote liquidity for MTN Nigeria, enhance its value and increase transparency, as our platform remains one of the best avenues for raising capital and enabling sustainable growth for national development.” President, NSE, Abimbola Ogunbanjo, also expressed excitement saying: “We are particularly pleased that MTN Nigeria has joined the prestigious club of companies listed on our Premium Board with this landmark transaction, which will differentiate it as a professionally run telecommunications company with high standards, having met the NSE’s listing criteria. “A Premium Board listing is a sign of commitment to strong corporate governance, excellence, professionalism, efficiency in service delivery and providing increased returns to shareholders. It is our expectation that the MTNN, which is the NSE’s 2nd largest, will encourage other telecommunication companies to list their shares on the exchange, thereby opening the sector up to cheaper, long term capital that will boost innovation and development.” NSE’s excitement Godstime Iwenekhai , Head, Listing Regulation of the NSE, had disclosed that after the book building by Airtel Africa Plc , about 130 shareholders subscribed to issue, which is below the 300 shareholders requirement of the exchange. Iwenekhai, however, explained that the firm had a free float of 25 per cent across the London Stock Exchange and the NSE, above the exchange requirement of 10 per cent for cross boarder listing. According to him, the rules of the NSE’s cross boarder listing was developed in such a way that it could grant exemption or waivers to attract cross boarder listing to the exchange and deepen the market. “The exchange cross boarder listing requirements rule also grants the exchange the powers to give exemption or waivers in every part of the rule because the rule is developed in such a way to attract cross boarder listing to the exchange. “We have the requirements that we feel we can deploy to attract such big and foreign companies to Nigeria, the rule as approved by the SEC gives the exchange the power to grant such requirement,” he said. Iwenekhai noted that the waiver was granted considering the fact Airtel has also listed on the LSE and must have complied with the stringent listing requirements in the foreign exchanges.