Benin – One Ogunfowokan Olakitan Tolani, of No. 2 Omowumi Alaro Street, Abulegba, Lagos State, described as a notorious car snatcher and two others were on Wednesday paraded by the Zone 5  Police Zonal Command, Benin City in Connection with a Toyota Camry allegedly snatched at gunpoint at Ekpoma, Edo State in 2015. The other two suspects paraded for receiving the snatched car are Agbaje Ismail, a car dealer of No. 231, Iju Road, Agege Lagos and one Obugara Paul of Ughelli, Delta State from whom the Toyota Camry Car with fake registration number LAGOS AGL 633 DO, and original Chassis number 4T1BG22K4VU091672, was recovered. Parading the suspects before newsmen on behalf of the AIG Zone 5, AIG D.P. Yakadi at the Zonal headquarters in Benin City, the Zonal Police Public Relation Officer, Emeka Iheanacho, DSP, said Ogunfowokan Olakitan  Tolari snatched the car from one Isikhuemen Ezekiel in Ekpoma, Esan West Local Government Area, Edo State on 9th July 2015 at his premises in Ekpoma. According to the Zonal PPRO, on July 1, 2019 the operative of zone anti-vice, while acting on a tip off from concerned citizen, arrested Obugara Paul with the car who thereafter took Police detectives to Lagos where the principal suspect, Tolari and Agbaje the receiver were arrested. “In the course of diligent investigation, it was discovered that the vehicle was originally registered with EDO EKP 639 EX by the owner Mr. Isikhuemen Ezekiel at Ekpoma before the principal suspect Ogunfowokan Olanitan Tolani and his gang robbed the car from the premises of the owner in Ekpoma at gun point to unknown destination. “While it is evident that the principal suspect Ogunfowokan Olanitan Tolani and his gang robed the vehicle, the second suspect Agbaje Ismail knew about the stolen vehicle and brought the third suspect, Obungara Paul who subsequently bought the car from the principal suspect before the operatives from the zone swooped on them and recovered the vehicle in Ughelli Iheanacho said while investigation is ongoing, efforts would be geared towards arresting other members of the syndicate and that the suspects in custody will be charge to court as soon as investigation is concluded. He said the AIG enjoined members of the Public to continue to support the zone with useful information that can lead to the arrest of criminal offenders and reduction of heinous crimes in the Zone. “We wish to assure the public that every information given to the police will be treated with utmost confidentiality. We also wish to use this medium to warm all criminals to repent or steer clear from the Zone as the Zone comprising Edo, Delta and Bayelsa States will be made uncomfortable for their criminal activities”