Osogbo – Osun State Government has concluded arrangements to disburse N615million to boost micro and small businesses in the state. Mr. Dayo Babaranti, the general manager, Osun Micro Credit Agency, disclosed this in a statement issued by the chief press secretary to the state governor, Adeniyi Adesina, copy of which was made available to newsmen. Babaranti added that the state had so far given out about N4.8 billion to about 28,000 residents to support their businesses. He said the N615.150 million received from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was a part payment from the N2billion revolving Micro Small Medium Enterprise Development Fund (MSMEDF) loan being given to states by the apex bank. Babaranti added that since 2014, the Federal Government, through the CBN, had been releasing intervention funds (MSMEDF) to support socio-economic activities in states. The general manager said the N4.8billion received through the CBN micro credit scheme was disbursed to citizens as soft loans to support small businesses. According to him, the state was rated first among the 36 benefiting states of the CBN’s MSMEDF because of its promptness and diligence in repayment and for using the funds for the primary purpose it was meant. Speaking on the terms and conditions for accessing the loan, Babaranti said the agency had maintained simple and bearable requirements for the citizens, adding that the scheme had helped to rekindle the hope among the citizens who were unable to meet the condition to obtain loans from commercial banks. He said: “This scheme has been really helpful in boosting socio-economic activities in the state as thousands of people have benefited from it. Our state has received N4.8billion since the intervention of the CBN on MSMEDF began in 2014, and so far so good, over 28,000 people have benefited from this scheme. “We have recorded over 70 per cent repayment by beneficiaries. We divide our lending scheme into three categories to accommodate all sectors and these include: individual lending, group lending and SME lending. The maximum amount individual lenders can benefit from this agency is N500,000 and this must be paid back within one year. “We are empowered to give from zero to N5 million to those who are operating Small and Medium Enterprise, while those under the umbrella of co-operative or group can access limitless funds depending on the strength of their membership. “This scheme has helped our people to expand the scope of their businesses, reduce unemployment, eradicate poverty, banish hunger and create a sense of belonging for all. It has helped to improve on the capital of the participating microfinance banks, which has translated into increased sales volume.”