Some lucky women and 96 firms that distinguished themselves in top management and industry received certification and awards at the 2019 Great Place To Work (GPTW) 6th Annual Awards held at the Landmark Event Centre, Lagos. The awards went to outstanding personalities and companies in various categories.
The awardees bagged the awards after a rigorous selection process. It attracted entries from over six African countries including Kenya, Cote D’ Ivoire, Senegal and South Africa, Namibia and Egypt.
Kunle Malomo, the Group Managing Director/CEO, GPTW, said the awards were not aimed at recognising only winners, but also to instill good work practices in work places.
He said that the company’s vision entails expanding the good work place culture across Africa, adding that the coming editions would feature about 300 companies and over 100 persons.
Malomo noted that the awards that started six years ago has become a huge success, stressing that the company is aiming at taking it to all states of the country, as it would be expanded to 100 award categories.
“We are in 22 countries across the world. We decided to expand our scope as most multinationals whose subsidiaries worn the awards in Nigeria requested that the certification should be carried out in their sister companies domiciled outside Nigeria”, he said.
The Managing Director of a company in the USA who is also our client that was listed for the award few years back, said that after winning the awards, that his company was rated high which helped them to win compensation of $68 million as compensation packages for senior executives, which is bigger than the company’s annual profit.
Women Leaders Awards category, Temitope Balogun said: “I am excited, this moment is bigger than me and kudos to the organisers for recognising the achievements of women in the workplace. My emergence is an encouragement to continuously contribute as well as give my best wherever I find myself.
My sincere appreciation goes to my leader Dr Adebola Akindele for giving me the platform to thrive in Courteville.
I have always tried to be the best I can at all times. In Courtevile, we create an environment where Team Members can thrive, Happy, committed and engaged”
“I have always tried to be the best I can at all the time, while trying to also carry people along as the Head of the HR. I tried to make people committed and fully engaged. I took to mentoring people that come across me during the course of their duty in order to bring out the best in them so you don’t see people as robots, you think about their personal life so as to create work-life balance for them.”
Earlier in his speech, the Keynote speaker, Austin Okere, said Great Place To Work is out to create value-shared personalities, stressing that the awards are aimed at impacting companies and individuals such that they would become internationally recognised.
He said; “We want 100 per cent engagement of companies and people, as it will improve the best working place practices of companies, as well as lead to employees best practices in the work place. We are aiming at building a better Nigeria through these awards that are being rolled out today.”
Some of the categories and the winners were Exceptional Women Leaders: Joke Ali, Fidson Healthcare; Bukola Aguda; Mayowa Ogowemimo, FSBH; Bunmi Dayo-Olagunju; Rosie Ebe-Arthur, First Bank Plc; Bosede Odeloye, Partner Delotte; Temitope Balogun, Courteville Business Solution, Felicia Obauwa, FCMB.
On the company certification category, were: ACCION Microfinance Bank; Afriland Properties; Avon HMO; Broll from Namibia; CISCOtm Egypt; Courteville Business Solution.
Others are; Ernst &Young, FBN General Insurance; FBN Holdings, which were grouped on the large companies categories.
The medium companies that bagged certification are: FBN Insurance, Hangana, Incentro, Leadway Assurance, Meristerm Security Ltd, Novartis Phamarceuticals, Namibiadiaries, NSIA Insurance, O&L Centre, Pizza Hot, Pwc and RMB.
Those that bagged the awards of best work place are: Sanofi Nig Ltd, SC Johnson, Softcom, Sterling Bank, Wema Bank, and United Capital.
The Best Practices Award went to the following: CISCO Egypt, Sanofi, Deloitte, FBN Holdings, Novartis, and Standard Chartered Bank.
Fun and Friendly Work Place Awards went to : Broll Namibia, Courteville, Deloitte,Kraatz, Sanofi, GT Bank, and AVONhmo.
Support for women went to the following companies: FBN Holdings, Courttevile, while Tony Elumelu Foundation bagged excellence in delivery wards.
The best companies to work category went ACCION Microfinace Bank, Sterling Bank, PWC, Deloitte, Sanofi, Courttevile, Novartis, CISCO Egypt, SC Johnson, Afriland Properties, and Heirs Holdings.