LAGOS  – A firm, Habbas Multiventures Limited on Wednesday received a letter of ‘Final Approval’ from the Licenses and Permits Directorate of Nigeria Customs Service(NCS) to commence operation as first private vehicle terminal in Nigeria.
The company’s Managing Director, Alhaji Hamisu Abba Sumaila, after receiving the approval in Abuja thanked the Controller General of Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ali and the management team for creating a legitimate alternative to discourage trans-border vehicle smuggling in Nigeria.
Sumaila described the final approval as a mark of the confidence reposed on Habbas Multiventures, promising that the company would strive to justify it and add value to the national economy through its terminal in the area of the automobile business.
“We are happy that after an earlier provisional approval, followed by inspection visit to our terminal facility in Kano, management of Nigeria Customs Service have found us worthy for this final approval
“Our entire staff members are ready and willing to offer world-class service in a Nigerian environment for vehicle purchase, sales and be of resource to importers of vehicular cargoes destined for Northern part of the country.
“ With this approval, we can now strengthen our move to ship in vehicles by sea and air into our facility taking advantage of the unique privilege of paying duty and other charges later, as approved by the government.
The company’s venture into the business is in response to the 2017 Federal Government ban on importation of vehicles through land borders and approval for the creation of the private car terminals to meet local demands.
It is pursuing a seamless and hitch-free vehicle sales and purchase business with flawless documentation and perfect completion of Customs formalities including duty payment.
Sumaila had earlier disclosed that no fewer than 1,000 direct and indirect jobs would be created in the next 12 months from the company’s take off with vehicle importation and sales
The terminal, according to him, will serve a better purpose than what the hitherto popular Cotonou car market was serving to Nigerians as it holds the space, enabling business environment, proximity to northern states and adequate security for dealers and buyers as well as uninterrupted power supply. Under its arrangement with the government, vehicles destined for the terminal will exit ports of discharge to the Kano terminal before duties is paid after the stipulated period. The terminal number allotted by NCS is C001/2019 located at No 71/85 Maiduguri Road, Jido, Rijiyar Gon gon Village, Kano.