LAGOS – Last weekend’s killing of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Chief Reuben Fasoranti, leader of pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere has once again heightened the security tension in the South-West especially with reports that suspected Fulani herdsmen have invaded most parts of the region. The nation was jolted on Friday evening when Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere issued a statement on Mrs Olakunrin’s death in which she claimed that 58-year old Mrs Olakunrin was shot by Fulani herdsmen in Ondo state. According to him, ““We have confirmed the death of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, 58, daughter of our leader, Chief Fasoranti. “Eyewitness accounts said she died of gunshot from Fulani herdsmen who shot her at Ore junction in Ondo State earlier today”. She was coming from Akure, when armed Fulani herdsmen came from the bush to attack her and other vehicles. Her domestic staff in the car with her sustained gunshots too. This is one death too many and a clear we-can-take-it-no-more death.” However, Femi Joseph, spokesman for the police in Ondo state explained that Mrs Funke Olakunrin was killed by suspected robbers and not nby herdsmen as claimed by Odumakin. He said three vehicles belonging to “Young Shall Grow Motors Limited, a Toyota Land Cruiser SUV with Registration Number LAGOS AAA 147 FM and a Toyota Camry “ were attacked by the bandits. He did not indicate in the interview with Punch whether the bandits were herdsmen. He said Olakunrin was inside a Toyota Land Cruiser when she was shot while one traveller identified as Gerald Igbuoyikha was kidnapped by the gunmen. “Three vehicles were ambushed by gunmen at Kajola on the Benin-Ore Expressway around 2pm. “One woman named Funmi Olakunrin was shot but died before our men could take her to the hospital. The woman (deceased) was travelling in a Toyota SUV. “One man in another Toyota Camry Car was abducted by the gunmen. Our men have rescued seven men travelling in the commercial bus belonging to Young Shall Grow Motors Limited. We have begun search for the man that was abducted and to get the hoodlums.” President Muhammadu Buhari on his part chose to believe the police version of the circumstances that led to Mrs Olakunrin’s death. The president, in a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina said she was killed by armed robbers according to the information supplied by the Ondo Police Command. The statement reads “President Muhammadu Buhari condoles with Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, whose daughter, Mrs Funke Olakunrin was killed along Ondo-Ore road by those described as armed robbers by Ondo Police Command. He prays God to give Pa Fasoranti fortitude to bear the loss.” On his part, Gani Adams, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland and leader of Oodua Peoples Congress said Yoruba will react to the spate of killings in the South West when pushed to the wall. Adams who asked the Southwest governors to begin the immediate implementation of the decisions they took on the security of the region at a recent meeting in Ibadan also advised traditional rulers in the region to take bold steps to stamp out killings by herdsmen in their domains and devise means of identifying visitors or new settlers in every community. “We are like the proverbial goat that it being chased”, Adams said in a statement circulated by his media assistant, Kehinde Aderemi. “When it gets to the wall, it will certainly react. We are at that stage now,” Adams said. He described Olakunrin’s killing by suspected herdsmen in Ondo State as one too many by Fulani who are invading the South West in their numbers and perpetrating atrocities. “We only want the whole world to know what has been done and being done to our people. “They should be aware of the actions that preceded our reaction when it eventually comes. “We are not bereft of ideas of how to stop this criminality on our land. It is just so that we should not be blamed when the reaction comes”, he added. In his condolence message to Pa Fasoranti, former President Olusegun Obasanjo declared that Nigeria has been diminished by the killing of Olakunrin. In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi, Obasanjo who asked security agents to fish out those responsible for the dastardly act described it as a worrisome development in the polity. “This is a worrisome development in our polity, especially, at a time when all well-meaning Nigerians are preaching tolerance and political accommodation in national politics. “I must say Nigeria as a whole is diminished by the manner of Funke’s death. We deplore this dastardly act and seize this opportunity to call on governments at all levels to leave no stone unturned in ensuring that our security agents vigorously pursue and find the perpetrators of such heinous crime and make them face the full weight of the law. “We must, together, find solution to all acts of insecurity in the country, particularly acts of banditry, kidnapping, robbery and killing by the suspected Fulani herdsmen” he said. Also speaking on the tragic incident, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, national leader of the APC during his condolence visit to Pa Fasoranti urged the people of the region not to allow the incident to divide Nigeria but to serve as a solution to the security challenges confronting the country. The former Lagos State Governor, who emphasised that the origin of kidnapping can be traced in the country, maintained that the death of the 58-year-old should not be used to divide the country. He added that with the spate of insecurity in the country, it was time to face it squarely and put an end to it once and for all. “I’m extremely concerned about security, I don’t want a stigma, I can go through history of kidnapping in Nigeria and we know how and where it all started, there are a lot of copycats. “How many years ago have we faced the insecurity in the country? There are cases of kidnapping, is Evans too, who was arrested and made disclosures, also a herdsman? “I don’t want to be political, but I will ask where are the cows?”I am a nationalist and the security concern and challenge right now must be faced squarely throughout Nigeria”. “We must not use this incident to divide ourselves but we must use it as a cure to the security problem. Additional police, additional patrol, and additional security reinforcement along Ore road and various flash points across the country is necessary and I have discussed this among the various authorities. The governor (Akeredolu) is eminently aware and being proactive about this. “The security challenges are numerous across this country and to fight it we are going through that, more police are being recruited and it takes time to train and deploy them to various areas, nobody prepares more than necessary for this” he said. “But if you look at Zamfara, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti and all areas, then we need to fight poverty, unemployment and the causes that might lead people to crime. Equally we must create opportunity to convert this tragedy to prosperity.”