The Edo State House of Assembly has being in crisis, with the lawmakers split into two. While one part are Governor Godwin Obaseki loyalists, the second is made up of supporters of former governor of the state and the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Interestingly, the Edo Assembly is composed of members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The crisis is said to have been caused by the desire of both Obaseki and Oshiomhole to control the state’s legislature. It would be recalled that it was Oshiomhole who picked Obaseki to succeed him at the end of his eighth year two-term tenure as the Edo State governor. Matters got to a head when the House was to be inaugurated, following a build-up of tension, a combined team of security agents made up of Police and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC) took over the State Assembly complex. The tension arose following the alleged proclamation of the Assembly by the governor in a way that seemed confusing to the lawmakers and not acceptable to the Oshiomhole’s camp, hence they were not present at the inauguration, which allegedly took place at the wee hours of the night. The bone of contention was the control of the Edo Assembly leadership. While the governor was said to be rooting for Frank Okiye, representing Esan North-East 1 as Speaker,  Adams Oshiomhole was said to be angling for Victor Edoror, representing Esan Central constitution. At first, there was the allegation that Obaseki did not want to transmit a letter of proclamation to the Clerk of the House for the inauguration of the Seventh Assembly, without which the House leadership could not emerge.. In the midst of this confusion and tension, about nine out of the 24 member Assembly, met after a purported proclamation by Obaseki and inauguration by the House by Clerk, Alhaji Yahaya Omogbai, They elected Okiye at the Speaker in the absence of majority of the members, who incidentally are supporters of Oshiomhole. Thus, the 16 lawmakers-elect of the House of Assembly denied knowledge of its inauguration, insisting they were not invited to the inaugural ceremony, if there was any. Till date, the Edo Assembly has been under security watch, even as the matter has been taken to the House of Representatives, which by the provisions of the constitution is empowered to oversee any crisis-ridden State House of Assembly in the federation. The security presence was intended to prevent the breakdown of law and order as thugs were seen loitering around the precincts of the House of Assembly. Reps Panel Investigates Edo Assembly Crisis Following the crisis, the House of Representatives set up an ad hoc committee to investigate the happenings in the Edo State House of Assembly with a view to taking informed decision on the matter. This followed the consideration and adoption of a motion of urgent public importance brought by Julius Ihonvbere (APC, Edo), in which he expressed the need for the House of Representatives to intervene and take over the control of the state Assembly due to what he described as “total breakdown of law and order”. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, while announcing the composition of the panel led by Abdulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa), urged them to explore the possibility of also reconciling warring parties in the state legislature. Ihonvbere had given an account of how the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, on June 17 hurriedly inaugurated the House with just nine members out of 24 about 10.pm without duly notifying other lawmakers-elect via an executive proclamation as provided for by the constitution. He also prayed the House to, as a matter of urgent national importance, take over the affairs of the state Assembly in order to protect democracy in the state and defend the constitution. Members debating the motion were unanimous in their condemnation of the act, while asking that the House investigate the matter to ascertain the veracity of claims that the governor actually wrote to individual legislator-elect notifying them of the inauguration. Gbajabiamila also asked the 13-man panel to, while investigating constitutional violations on the part of the governor, also explore the possibility of reconciling the warring parties. The House of Representatives proceeding was witnessed by the aggrieved members of the Edo State House of Assembly loyal to s Oshiomhole, who were at the National Assembly that fateful Tuesday. The question is: Should the National Assembly, in this case the House of Representatives take over the Edo State House of Assembly to ensure that peace returned to the state legislature as provided by the constitution? Already, the House of Representatives panel of the Edo State Assembly crisis has commenced their investigation and has even gone to Benin City to speak to all stakeholders in the state. The Situation In Edo House Of Assembly Has Not Got To That – Activist A Benin-based human rights activist, said: “I think there is a constitutional provision for that on the ground that there is crisis in the House of Assembly and it is proved beyond reasonable doubt. But, the present situation in the Edo State House of Assembly, I don’t think it has gotten to where the National Assembly will take over the control of the House. “This is because, to my understanding, the state governor has already proclaimed the House and other members who are protesting the inauguration have not appeared in the House, but are driven away or are engaged by other members in a fight or the security agents stopped them from attending session. “I believe the National Assembly has taken a step by setting up a fact-finding committee to look at the issue. So, let us keep our fingers crossed and wait for that committee’s report.” Let There Be Dialogue between OBaseki, Oshiomhole – Ex-Reps Aspirant Former House of Representatives aspirant and member, New Generation Party (NGP) in Owerri North council area of Imo State, stated: “Does the National Assembly have the constitutional powers to take over any state House of Assembly whenever there is crisis there? If yes, it is okay, otherwise they should not. “Let there be dialogue, consultation and compromise between Comrade Adams Oshimhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki. These are the gladiators who see Edo state as their personal property.” APC Should Resolve This Crisis – Female Politician A retired teacher and top female politician in Imo State, said: “To me, I do not think that what is happening in Edo State House of Assembly has deteriorated to the extent that the NASS should intervene. “Edo State Assembly is not the first to have this kind of problem. The state is an APC state and so physicians should heal themselves, while the dead should be allowed to bury their own dead.