The Director General of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Osita Aboloma yesterday emphasised that with the support and collaboration of all stakeholders, the organisation will not rest on its oars in ridding Nigeria of substandard products. Aboloma made the declaration at a one-day Stakeholders Collaboration as a Tool For Zero Substandard Products, held in Kaduna on Wednesday July 3, 2019 According to him, the organisation is enforcing compliance, through various standards like MANCAP, SONCAP and other logos on products to let customers know difference between substandard and counterfeit products and the original. Represented by Alhaji Abubakar Abba (Galajen Bauchi), the Regional Coordinator North West of SON, he cautioned Nigerians against endangering themselves and loved ones by patronising fake or substandard products. In a paper presentation, Chief Increase Uche suggested that the enlightenment and sensitisation campaign should be sustained. He said that the role of SON in preventing substandard products is crucial, hence calling for the inclusion of SON at the ports to prevent influx of such substandard products. Uche, who is the National President of National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), further said compromise by bank officials portends serious danger as it related to imports. “SON should lend support to Nigerian Shippers Council in reducing substandard products or cargo through CTN.” “Federal Government should speed up implementation of Single Windows Facility, whereby all agencies of government, SON can sit in their offices and make inputs. “SON is expected to do more and ensure synergy with other agencies especially the Nigerian Customs”, he said. In another paper presentation, National Vice President FSM, Dr. Farinto Kayode Collins, said as patriotic citizens, all Nigerians are compelled to collaborate with SON to stamp out substandard products from the country. “Please be informed that the hazard/adverse effect of substandard goods on our economy, health cannot be quantified. “Let alone, the preponderance members of our citizens that have been killed, maimed as a result of use of these products. “We shall be playing our roles in national interest, if we all agree to collaborate as stakeholders to stamp out substandard goods in our economy,” he said.