FROM LIBERIA – President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday bagged Liberia’s highest national award as the “Most Venerable Order of the Knighthood of the Pioneers of the Republic of Liberia with Grade of the Knight Grand Cordon.”
The President, while accepting it, dedicated it to all Nigerians and noted that it represented a tribute to all our country men who paid the supreme price in aid of Liberia’s unity and stability.
The colourful ceremony took place on Friday in Monrovia, Liberia’s capital commemorating the 172nd independence anniversary of the West African nation.
As part of his goodwill message to the populace, Buhari announced that an additional 50 technical aid corps will be deployed from Nigeria to Liberia as part of a capacity building programme in the field of education and health.
Buhari also seized the occasion to assess his Economic Recovery and Growth Plan(ERGP) launched by his administration in 2017, saying it created the enabling environment for growth, security and economic revival in Nigeria.
While urging Liberia to take a cue from Nigeria, the President reiterated that his administration realised the futility in continuing to subject the economy to the vagaries of its mono-product dependence and has instituted policies aimed at diversifying the national economy which are yielding positive results.
“Our government had to adopt appropriate measures including diversification and reforms to address such underlying causes exemplified by our continued dependence on a single-commodity, crude oil, lack of fiscal buffers, leakages, corruption and high governance costs.
“Furthermore, in our efforts to stimulate the economy, our government initiated bold policy interventions that are beginning to yield positive results,” the President stated.
He also thanked the Government and people of Liberia, expressing his resolve to continue to strengthen cooperation within the sub region.
“This gesture can only strengthen my resolve to rededicate myself to the service of my country, work for the prosperity of our people in the sub-region.”
President Buhari likened the Liberian economic situation to what obtained in Nigeria when he assumed office in 2015 and praised the administration of President George Weah for its social intervention programme.
“Your Excellency, I am fully aware that on assumption of office, your country was experiencing severe economic challenges occasioned by the fall in commodity prices, the main source of revenue for Liberia. This situation is akin to what I inherited on my election in 2015. That was a difficult period for the Nigerian economy which later lapsed into recession.
“Permit me, Your Excellencies, to commend your leadership and vision for initiating since coming to office, people oriented projects and programmes including the “Pro-Poor Agenda for Prosperity and Development” (PAPD) launched in 2018.
“I am convinced that this well-articulated programme which is quite similar to our Government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan 2017-2020, if well implemented, could bring the desired transformation and sustainable development to Liberia.”
The President encouraged his Liberian counterpart to take decisive actions to further stimulate the economy of the country: “Mr. President, Liberia under your leadership may wish to learn from our experience by taking courageous steps to diversify its economic base by developing the productive sector that would complement earnings from rubber, iron ore and the increasingly dwindling funds from Development Partners.
“In this regard, the need for proper management of human resources and investment in agriculture, solid minerals and other sectors such as tourism where the country has comparative advantage, cannot be overstated.”
The Nigerian President also conveyed the felicitations of Nigerians to their brothers in Liberia:
“Today represents yet another significant milestone in the life of the brotherly nation of Liberia. Nigerians rejoice with all Liberians on this momentous occasion. It is a matter of pride that Liberia, the first country in Africa to gain its Independence, has successfully preserved its unity and cohesion, despite the tragic events that culminated in an unfortunate civil war.
“I am here to celebrate with you this remarkable achievement while at the same time recalling the enormous contributions and sacrifices made by Nigeria in your recent history.”
President Buhari assured Liberians of continued support of Nigeria to its development.