LAGOS – A group known as Coalition for Revolution has said that it would from August 5 shut down Nigeria as the only solution to problems facing the country. Omoyele Sowore, human rights activist, pro-democracy campaigner and presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), one of the leaders of the movement stated this while speaking with newsmen at the end of a peace building and conflict resolution summit in Lagos organised by the Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER) with the support of the Institute of International Education (IIE). Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “We’ve had over 20 cities that have signed up for that particular mode of action. I cannot tell you when it will end because it will not end until we find a solution to all these problems,” he said. He however called on Nigerians to come together and instigate a revolution, insisting that that is the only thing that can solve the problem in the country. Sowore who said that the solution to Nigeria’s problem has gone beyond restructuring, stated that everywhere in Nigeria is under siege, that one cannot travel from one part of the country to another without anybody shooting, kidnapping or robbing one. “The solution has gone beyond restructuring, Nigerians must gather themselves together and come together and instigate a revolution; that is the only thing that can solve the problem in this country. I just came here to honour my friends in the north, not to come and dish conflict resolution that is for after the revolution” he said. He said that the kind of revolution would be determined by situational variables and that people would determine what would happen during and after the revolution. “It is not for me to tell you typically how deep or how fast the revolution will take, so you don’t worry about that. “The Fulani herdsmen is a metaphor for law and order in Nigeria, when it was not Fulani herdsmen, they use to call them unknown gunmen; before then it was Niger Delta militants. I remember when Niger Delta militants went to Port Harcourt to kidnap the Secretary to the State Government then and took him to Warri, if it is today they will be saying the Fulani herdsmen want to take over our own part of the world. “This country has failed, the leaders in this country have failed; the leaders do not have solutions to our problems; we should stop deceiving ourselves that talk shops, conferences and all these symposia will solve our problems; we have gone past that and that is why I am here to tell you. “It doesn’t matter the legal implication or the physical implication of it, what matters most is that we all agreed that our country leaders can no longer manage this country and manage it effectively in a way that we can be safe in it and we can protect our dignity; only us can do that and we are determined to do that.  I am not the only leader of this move, a lot of people are leading it,” he added.