On Jan. 23, Venezuela’s Juan Guaidó electrified the country when he declared himself president of the struggling South American country in defiance of the man in the Miraflores Presidential Palace, Nicolás Maduro. Speaking before a massive crowd, he laid out a three-part plan that became a national mantra: Drive Maduro out of office, lead a transitional government and hold new elections. But six months after taking that oath, the Guaidó administration has been stuck on the first step. And Maduro, 57, seems no closer to relinquishing power. “When he started talking about ending [Maduro’s] usurpation of the presidency on Jan. 23, he said it with such a sense of immediacy,” recalls Juan Carlos Viloria, the head of the Coalition for Venezuela, a network of advocacy groups. “People were so hopeful that it could happen quickly — now we know these things take time.” But for Guaidó time may be running out. Despite having the backing of Washington and more than 50 other nations, his claim to the presidency is linked to his role as head of congress. But since 2015 the opposition-led legislature has been rotating its leadership every December. And that means that Guaidó may have less than five months left as the country’s parallel president. Undoubtedly, Washington and others will push for congress to ratify Guaidó for another term. But his Voluntad Popular party will also be under pressure to stick to the power-sharing agreement and give another political party the chance to lead at this critical juncture. Will that mean that Venezuela will have a second interim president trying to wrest control from Maduro come December? At this point it’s not clear. “There’s so much uncertainty,” Viloria said. “We’ve got Christ in one hand and a rosary in the other, as they say here, because we have no idea what will happen in [five] months. Maybe Juan Guaidó is ratified, maybe he’s not.” During those first heady days of Guaidó’s administration, a year in office seemed like more than enough time to bring about change. Guaidó was leading massive national marches and the global community was rallying around him. But things started to go south.