Chief Sunny Onuesoke is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and immediate past Special Project Director, Delta State Governor’s Office. The former governorship aspirant in this interview with select journalists in Lagos speaks on the controversy that led to the suspension of the RUGA settlement projects by the Federal Government and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: What is your stand on the suspended RUGA settlement for herdsmen? The open show of desperation by the President Muhammadu Buhari led-government to please these marauding Fulani herdsmen at all cost only goes to show that there is more to it than meets the eye. What is so special about these herdsmen that President Buhari is hell-bent on pleasing them at all time? It is almost three months now; Buhari is yet to implement the new minimum wage for Nigerian workers. Instead, he is planning to build RUGA settlements for herdsmen across the nation. What an irony of President? By the suspension of the scheme, it has become clear to everyone that Nigeria does not belong to anyone or group of people. With the massive outcry and rejection against the RUGA settlement, I had expected the Presidency to immediately cancel or scrap the idea instead of just suspending it. By suspension, it means the plan is still in place with the possibility of being executed in the future. There is a possibility that the Federal Government might revisit the RUGA idea again and probably implement the establishment of RUGA settlement against the wish of the people. Why do you think the government refused to consult the people and all stakeholders before contemplating/ embarking on such a critical matter? The refusal of the Federal Government to consult the people and all stakeholders before embarking on the RUGA scheme only goes to give credence to insinuations of Islamisation and Fulanisation agenda being pursued by the Buhari-led government. Only recently, ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo raised concerns about such an agenda and events that have unfolded in recent weeks only go to show that there is more to it than meets the eye. We must not forget the fact that the Federal Government recently had contemplated assisting these same herdsmen with over 100 billion naira and not forgetting the recent radio station recently launched to support them by the same Federal Government. From all indications, there are a lot of questions begging for answers. What do you think would have been the immediate and far-reaching implications of the scheme and how do you mean? It might just be a catalyst for another civil war. I guess the Federal Government saw the writings on the wall; they saw that Nigerian had already rejected the idea even before they announced it. RUGA establishment might just be that single element that would have triggered the Tunisia revolution or Arab spring in Nigeria, but thank God it was averted. It beats my imagination to see the desperation by the Buhari-led government to always come to the aid of the marauding Fulani herdsmen who have embarked on what one can only describe as a killing spree across the land. At every point in time, the Federal Government tends to display soft spot in their actions. We have heard and seen the level of barbaric deconstructions these herdsmen have wreaked on innocent citizens across the country and yet the Federal Government continues to treat them with kid’s glove. The president is yet to bring to book the perpetrators of the herdsmen killings and destruction to book, as he always promised whenever they finished with their acts. What do you think are the likely consequences in case the Federal Government still goes ahead with the scheme, which it claimed to have been gazetted? Going ahead to implement the scheme may result in another revolution in Nigeria, owing to the fact that Nigerians from all walks of life have rejected the idea ab initio. Why would you want to force your Fulani brothers on our land? Cattle-rearing is an individual business like farming is, therefore if you know you want to feed your cattle, get a ranch as being practised even in advanced countries. The government has already created an impression about its stand on the activities of these marauding herdsmen, so going ahead with the scheme may result in serious backlash from Nigerians with huge consequences. What’s your reaction to the 30 days ultimatum given by Miyetti Allah to the Federal Government to commence the implementation of the suspended scheme? The ultimatum is uncalled for and shows a people who do not regard the right of other Nigerians, because they have this thinking that Nigeria belongs to them and they must have their way at all cost. It is now becoming clear as to what their intention is with regard to the establishment of the RUGA settlement. The president should call his people to order and let them realise that by giving such ultimatum, they are playing with the sensibility of Nigerians, especially those from the Southern part of the country. Imagine the level of boldness! This can only happen in a country where the government of the day has been compromised. Recently, you attended Maritime International conference in the United States. What solution can you proffer to the lingering congestion at Apapa and Tin Can Wharf? The truth is, Nigeria is losing millions of Dollars to other African countries as a result of the congestion in Apapa and Tin-Can Wharf because of traffic gridlock. The delay at the ports was the reason ship owners preferred to go to ports of neighbouring countries. Ships are not expected to come and wait for days or weeks in one port. They are expected to come, drop the containers and turn and leave because time is money. If abandoned Onne, Calabar, Port Harcourt, Warri, Sapele and Koko among other ports in the country are dredged and open for business, Nigeria’s economy would be better for it and ships would now have a choice on where to berth in Nigeria instead of going to African ports. Data obtained from global port operations indicated that a number of vessels that called at the port in 2018 had a decline of 2.72% when compared to the previous year. Also comparing the operations data to that of the neighbouring ports shows that the performances of the neigbouring ports are more robust. Nigerian port operations need to be reviewed to enable the ports to improve their competitive position in the regional and global markets. Port congestions, high container dwell time, a high turnaround time of vessels and trucks, inadequate of port facilities such as berths, etc have tremendously negated the operational performance of Apapa port of Lagos. The economic implication of the aforementioned inefficiencies is that most shippers would prefer to call at other ports with less congestion, better port facilities and sophisticated cargo handling equipment, adding that the carryover effects are increases in the prices of consumable goods, cut-off-flow during operations by the production companies, decrease in per capita income of port employees, general decreases in the revenue accruable to the port and reduction in gross domestic product. But if other ports in Nigeria are operational the shippers would prefer to go any other ports in Nigeria than going to other African countries to offload their contents.