The Federal Government on Saturday called on parents to be patient with their children and wards in their academic performances to reduce the wave of suicide. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono, made the call at the 11th Annual Speech/Prize Giving Day and Valedictory Service of the Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba, Lagos. “We must make deliberate efforts to stem the tide of suicide that is rising in our society. “This starts from the actions we take after a ceremony like this,” Echono said. He said that parents should not have unrealistic expectations from their children or mount other pressures that could lead to frustration. The official urged students to be focused and disciplined, as well as strive to do their best at all times. He re-iterated the commitment of the Federal Government to restructure the school system for more effective teaching and learning. According to Echono, the restructuring will facilitate students’ excellence and development of skills for self-reliance. He said that education remained the legacy required in building and sustaining any nation. “There is no country in the world that can rise above the level of education of its citizenry. “We will, therefore, continue to do our best in ensuring that our plan of restructuring the education system is achieved in the near future,” he said. The official called on other stakeholders in the sector to cooperate with the government in realising the dream,” he said. In her remarks, the Director, Technology and Science Education in the ministry, Elizabeth Adedigba, said that the Federal Government was planning to establish skills acquisition centres across the country. According to her, the plan is in an effort to tackle the rising rate of unemployment among young school leavers. “The Federal Government has already set up a committee to look into this. These skill centres are going to be established across all the six geo-political zones. “This is a place where we also plan to train out-of-school children