The Kaduna Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on July 9, 2019 arraigned one Mukaila Abdulrahman alongside his company MKA Ventures Limited before Justice Darius Khobo of the State High Court, sitting in Kaduna on a three-count charge bordering on cheating and obtaining money under false pretence. The EFCC had received a petition alleging that sometime in 2018 the defendant told Murtala Abdulsalam, managing director, Murenco Nig. Limited of a contract he secured for the supply of books to the Ahmadu Bello University, ABU Zaria, and requested for loan of N8million to facilitate the contract. In taking the loan, Abdulrahman used his Honda car as collateral and a post-dated cheque covering the balance of the money. However, upon presenting the dated cheque at the bank, it was returned unpaid. Thus, Abdulsalam took his cry to the EFCC, which subsequently investigated the allegation. One of the charges reads: “That you, Mukaila Kayode Abdulrahman “M” Managing Director and sole signatory of MKA Ventures LTD and MKA Ventures LTD sometimes in May 2018, in Kaduna, within the Judicial Division of this Honourable Court did obtain credit of N8,000,000 (Eight Million Naira) only to yourselves from Murenco Nig. LTD through Murtala Abdulsalam the Managing Director of Murenco LTD by means of an Access Bank Plc Cheque dated 30th August 2018 in the sum of N8,000,000 (Eight Million Naira) only issued by you, which when presented within the statutory period of three months was dishonoured on the ground that there was no sufficient funds standing to the credit of the account upon which the cheque was drawn and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Sections 1(1) (b) and 2 of the dishonoured cheques ( offences) Act, cap D11, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 and punishable under Section 1(1) (b) (i) and (ii) of the same Act.” Upon his arraignment in court he pleaded “not guilty” to the charges. Counsel for the EFCC, Y.J. Matiyak urged the court to fix a date for commencement of trial. Defence counsel, Nda Sule, however, made an oral application for the bail of his client. Justice Khobo, thereafter, granted him bail in the sum of N500,000 (Five Hundred Thousand Naira) and a reliable surety in like sum who must reside within the jurisdiction of the court and own a property covered by a valid Certificate of Occupancy. The case has been adjourned to July 30, 2019 for “definite hearing”.