Barrister Kenneth Udeze is the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA) as well as the Legal Adviser of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the expectations of the new National Assembly, President Muhammadu Buhari’s delay in naming his ministers, among other issues. Excerpt: The Miyetti Allah Herders Association requested to be allowed to set up the Fulani youth vigilante groups in South East. How do you see the request and what does this portend for the region? I will be blunt with the answer. Vigilante Groups for whom? What a mess? You mean any governor in the South East will give support for the fourth most deadly terror group in the world to establish terrorist vigilante groups in Igbo land? Who and what are they going to be protecting? Take a look at the North, Middle Belt and even some parts of Yoruba land. Haven’t you heard of what this group is doing there? What will they provide to a very safe place like the South East, or even the South South? Are they saying that they don’t have confidence again in our security agencies, which they are also controlling? Something is amiss. A mere cattle trading association that is expected to do their cattle business peacefully, but they will prefer to unleash mayhem to their host communities. How many vigilante groups have motor spare part dealers of Igbo extraction established in the North? The audacity of this group became dimensional when this President took office in 2015, and with this demand, they have indeed taken their naivety to the next level. The region of South East cannot, and will not tolerate that nonsense. Instead, they should allow IPOB to set up the vigilante groups, or the local government councils can pass a legislation to set up community based security network which will work in liaison with our security agencies by providing intelligence reports to them. That way, everyone living in the South East or South South will be rest assured that they will be protected. How do you see the style of politics by South East politicians? Do you think that the region can produce the nation’s president the way things seem to go among their leaders? South East does not have any problems producing the next President. The only challenge is that most people from the other regions in Nigeria still want to use the civil war of 1966 to rationalise why South East cannot produce our next president in Nigeria. Tell me, what do the political leaders from that region do that you cannot find in the other regions? This is a case of the kettle calling pot black or verse versa. Let me assure you that what it will take an Igbo man to be the next President in 2023 is when all the major political parties present an Igbo man as their presidential election flag bearer. That is it. And when this man or woman emerges as the winner, he or she will not be an Igbo President, but the President of Nigeria. I bet you, Nigeria will be better for it. All the same, nothing will stop an Igbo Presidency in 2023. Could you define the direction of Governor Emeka Ihedioha administration? Do you see him taking the state to the next level after Owelle Rochas OKorocha’s administration? As for taking the state to the next level, this Emeka Ihedioha will certainly achieve it. There is no way Imo State under Emeka Ihedioha will never deliver the dividends of democracy more than his predecessor. Let me assure you that he has started very well already. Though I am yet to get full information on his policy thrust, but what he has done so far, with all the appointments he has made after taking office, shows that he want to end a one-man show syndrome in Imo State, by enthroning an all-inclusive administration under his watch. I am of the belief that as soon as he is done strengthening the internal structures in the state, commitment towards the even development of the state by all and sundry, will be easy. Almost a month and half after President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term inauguration, he is yet to come up with his list of ministers. What is your take on this bearing in mind that it took him six months to do so in his first term? Well, it is just a month and few days. Let us give him some time. May be, this time, it will not be up to six months, and from the experience of the past, he will like to make better personnel choices. The Executive he had in his first tenure, failed him and the country. So, if you ask me, let him take all the time he wants, as long as he gets it right. There is hunger in the land and we had the Executive that never accepted that people were suffering. How many of them are Nigerians calling bad names? Is it not only President Buhari that we know? He should take his time, but he must make the right choices this time around. But, the appointments should not tarry anymore. Let him not concentrate on the North anymore, but should seek out for the best. They abound, no excuses. To what extent are you satisfied with the new National Assembly leadership which a cross section of the populace fear may become a rubber stamp to the Executive? My interactions with a cross section of Nigerians show that as far as they are concerned, this Assembly can go ahead and do whatever they want. Their tenure is not going to last more than four years. During this period, if they chose to create credibility gap for themselves, no wahala. They will carry it with their heads. However, we should give them the benefit of the doubt because among them are ebullient and articulate individuals who will hold their own any day. These ones cannot be rubber stamp for or to anyone. So, if you ask me, I will say a big no; this Assembly cannot afford to risk it. Do you see the President Muhammadu Buhari administration bringing a solution to rising wave of insecurity in the nation, giving the fear that the situation might have been created by support from foreign terrorist groups like ISIS? Most Nigerians had voted this President in 2015 because of his background as a former military officer with the hope that he will bring the security challenges experienced during former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan (GEJ) to an end. We are all disappointed by his approach to this issue, and he seems to have exhausted his best strategies on this war against insurgency. Let me tell you my fears. I suspect that this President is playing a double standard on this matter because he has not been able to stand up against the excesses of a certain group, who are doing similar things in different parts of the Country because he is their patron. If only he can come out prosecuting offenders and sponsors of this group, this security challenge will definitely minimise or stopped. Ask yourself, where ISIS is since Trump took over the reins of USA government. Obama was neither here nor there in the fight against terrorism (except the killing of Osama Bin Ladin), and ISIS activities festered. President Buhari should prove himself trustworthy as far as this fight against insurgence is concerned. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recently revealed that over 200 associations are waiting registration as political parties. Giving the fact that Nigeria has about 93 political parties, which created a lot of problems during the 2019 elections, what is your take on this development? INEC should merge the political parties now. Can it be said that we are doing well in our democracy because we have 1,000 political parties? This is nonsense. How well did these parties fare during the past elections? How many of them produced Members of the State or National Assembly? What kind of support has INEC given to the already registered political parties? Do we really need all this? The answer is ‘no’.