NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, JULIET OYOYO Experts have again raised concerns over what appears to be a lack of political will in properly managing Nigeria’s exploding population, linking it to the growing poverty menace and insecurity in the country. Worries over population growth in the country, though have been an age long swan song, but a recent survey by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, surmises a new trend in the line of criticism. These experts are worried that Nigeria’s population has more than tripled since independence, from 45.1 million in 1960 to almost 200 million in 2018. The United Nations projections estimate that at the current rate of population growth, Nigeria will be among the top four most populous countries in the world with an estimated population of well over 289 million by year 2050. A demographic expert at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Ayo Onikanni, berates the  government at the centre for lack of definite control policy on the nation’s population, saying research has revealed that, the population of Nigeria is growing at geometric rate without corresponding increase in socio-economic growth. Onikanni maintained that socio infrastructural facilities in most villages, cities and town where there are youths have been poor, which forced them into state capitals where there are no jobs for them to do. According to him, most of the towns and villages have been neglected by government and private enterprises have not been encouraged to grow, thus resulting in labour crisis all over. While lamenting that what is being experienced at the moment is social disorder, Onikanni said “there is no orderliness in everything we do in Nigeria, adding that “everybody having the opportunity are just grabbing and looting the nation’s resources”, thereby compounding the disorderliness in the land. Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Godwin Emefiele, also warned that tough times await Nigerians due to impending population explosion. According to him, Nigeria’s population will hit 425 million in 2050, the third largest in the world, unless urgent steps were taken to control it. Emefiele said impending population explosion of Nigeria and attendant economic implications would create tough times for Nigerians. The CBN governor, who painted a gloomy picture of Nigeria in comparison with other countries, said with the rapid population on yearly basis and penchant for sabotaging government policies on economic growth and development, there would be serious crisis, if stern actions were not taken to control population growth. He stated that with the current rapid population growth rate, there was urgent need for development – driven monetary and economic policies devoid of sabotage in anyway. A Kaduna-based academician and politician, Dr. Dogara Matoh, told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that Nigeria must reduce her population growth rate by half. He expressed worry that Nigeria’s population is experiencing about three per cent growth yearly. “Population explosion in the northern states can be linked to the huge level of insecurity in the region with its attendant consequences on the socio-economic development and growth of the people and the states. This has further worsened the level of poverty with many struggling to survive with the minimum wage of around $60 (about N18, 000.00). “The numbers of unemployed youths roaming the streets have also been seen as a ready tool for persons with evil and criminal intentions to take advantage of their situation to lure them with better offers into their nefarious acts”, Matoh added. According to Umaru Usman, a sociologist based in Kano, governments at all tiers have a huge responsibility on their hands to woo traditional and religious leaders including community leaders, to join in awareness and sensitization campaigns to the rural areas on the need for children in the region to gain quality education; either Islamic or western as this will help to create the right enlightenment. The elites in the northern region, according to Usman, lack the political will to execute quality programmes and policies that can effectively impact positively on the society, especially as it relates to the well-being of the citizenry, which would help reduce poverty to an appreciable level. Federal Commissioner, National Population Commission (NPC) for Lagos State, Mrs. Abimbola Salu-Hundeyin, was reported as saying recently that Nigeria was overdue for a population census for effective management of the country. She pointed out that the country would continue to live in darkness developmentally without a census. “Because without accurate data, no government can manage the people and government must have data to know how many children are being born, how many schools will be needed, how many hospitals, and its workforce. “This is how to manage a nation successfully; the rate at which we are going, it is a tough job for anybody to manage this country without a census,” she said. The commissioner pointed out that the agency would have wanted census every 10 years as obtained in other countries but the Census Act and the Constitution did not allow that. “We have written to the federal government and we are showing our preparedness by the Employment Authorization Document (EAD), the birth registration and other things that we do. “But until government gives a proclamation, we cannot hold a census and it is over 10 years now since the last census held in 2006. “Until it becomes a law like the election, we cannot impose it on the federal government. Right now, Nigeria is overdue for census,” she said. A former Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, had said in July 2018, that Nigeria would need N234 billion to control its population growth, which stands at 3.2 per cent per year. Adewole harped on the need to boost Contraceptives Prevalence Rate (CRR), noting that the birth rate of “5.5 children per woman is too high.” An economist, Mr. Tope Fasua, said a large or high population isn’t a problem in itself but how the government and the people are handling it normally constitutes the problem. He said, “If a country has a very huge and productive population productive in terms of the contribution to the GDP, high population will be to its advantage. But if the huge population is not productive and the government doesn’t have the resources to cater for the ever increasing population that is where the problem lies.” Fasua, who was also the presidential candidate of Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP) in the last general elections, cited China as one country with a very huge but very productive population. China, he said, is using its huge population to its advantage because its people are productive and contributing meaningfully to its GDP. He said Nigeria shouldn’t have been worrying about its increasing population if the government, over the years, had provided enough infrastructure that would have made many Nigerians, especially the youths productive. He said many successive governments had also neglected education, resulting in the country having about 13.2million children out of school. Fasua said, “The government should build infrastructure and concentrate more on education. A country like Nigeria, where people hold tenaciously to culture and religion, it will be very difficult for government to want to sell the idea of two children per mother or whatever. I think what they should do is just to make the population productive. A productive population produces the resources for the country.”