ABUJA – Laoye Jaiyeola, Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), has identified uncoordinated activities in the implementation of the National Home-Grown School Feeding Programme (NHGSFP) as a clog in the realisation of the intended objectives of the programme.
Speaking to newsmen at the Nigeria Policy Innovation Unit (PIU) dissemination meeting at the weekend in Abuja, Jaiyeola pointed out that government’s policies and programmes, more often than not, failed to achieve the intended purposes or results due to lack of coordination and what he called “silo mentality.”
According to him, “The more coordination we do among ourselves, the better. Programmes should speak to each other.
“One of the reasons we have not got sufficient impact on the National School Feeding Programme is because there is so much silo mentality, we do not work together.
“It is not only limited to government, even among the private sector, development plans, everybody works in silo.”
“The earlier we coordinate and begin to work together, the better for all of us. There should be more coordination among the people, more holistic view on how to address the problems of the poor.
“It is about provision of education, healthcare. There is one the Federal Government can do, there is one states can also do and there is one the private sector can undertake.”
He warned that unless the widening inequality between the rich and the poor is bridged, the rich in the society cannot be secure.
Commenting on the key findings of the behavioural science interventions conducted on the National Social Investment Programmes (NSIP) implemented under the Presidency, Jaiyeola expressed optimism that the findings would re-enforce how to make the programmes work better so as to deliver the intended objectives.
“The more behavioural science, the better for us to get our policies to work,” he said.
It would be recalled that the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme was established in 2015 by President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to address rising concerns regarding the low rate of primary school enrolment and attendance in the country.
To ensure optimal performance of the Programme’s delivery, Busara, the Nigerian Economic Summit Group and Accenture Nigeria, were commissioned by the Gates Foundation and the National Social Investment Office (NSIO) to set up a Policy Innovation Unit (PIU), which is an initiative designed to support the NSIO programmes by infusing behavioural science support and providing on-going testing and refinement to the programmes. Also speaking, Maryam Uwais, Coordinator, National Social Investment Office, announced that currently, about 9.8 million school children are captured in the feeding programme in about 100, 000 schools in 25 States in Nigeria.