LAGOS – Unions in the Nigerian aviation industry said they have been vindicated by the last Friday’s security breach at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos where a Nigerien citizen beat all the security apparatus at the airport to gain access to an about-to-be-departed aircraft. Comrade Abdulrasaq Saidu, the General Secretary of the Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals (ANAP) told journalists in Lagos that rather than recruit qualified personnel for the position of Aviation Security, a department under the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), politicians had hijacked activities in the sector by putting their cronies into the sensitive aspect of the industry. He alleged that the industry had been polarised in the past four years, insisting that those above 30 years were being recruited to AVSEC as against the extant rule. He further noted that the government through the Ministry of Transport, Aviation Unit, had jettisoned the compulsory background checks for impending new recruits, warning that the problem may persist if there was no change in the current system. He, however, called for total overhauling of the current security system, while also declaring that the ongoing recruitment of AVSEC officers and firefighters for FAAN in Kaduna State should be halted immediately. He insisted that the process of recruitment had been bastardised by not following the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) requirements on the exercise. Saidu noted that the country would have been thrown into mourning if the suspect was on a suicide mission. He however commended the management of FAAN for taking responsibility for the breach, but said all those involved in the security lapses should be brought to book. “Everybody on duty that very day should explain why they should not be dealt with accordingly for allowing what happened that day to occur. It is a challenge and a bad signal to the International community,” he said. Saidu warned politicians not to allow politics to override safety in the employment of security personnel in the aviation sector, alleging that the former minister of state for aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika misplaced priority by putting concession above safety. It would be recalled that a Nigerien citizen by the name Usman Adamu had on Friday morning around 11am, beat the security networks at the airport and gained access to an Azman Air aircraft that was scheduled to fly to Port Harcourt Airport, before some of the passengers spotted him in one of the engines of the Boeing 737 with the registration number 5N-HAI.