Arsenal have less than a month to conclude any transfer deals ahead of the 2019/2020 season, According to Football.london. It’s been rather quiet in terms of incomings with Gabriel Martinelli the sole new arrival thus far, although there have been links to the likes of Wilfried Zaha, Kieran Tierney, Yannick Carrasco, William Saliba, Ryan Fraser and Dani Ceballos among others. Whilst some fans are growing impatient with the club’s lack of movement, Gunners head coach has adopted a rather calm approach. “The club is working. We are speaking every day with the club and Edu,” Emery told reporters at his post-Colorado Rapids press conference. “I prefer to work with patience and calm and take the best decision. “We have very good players, very young good players. We need someone to help us. The club is working on that. “We prefer to take the best decision with patience. If we need to wait more time for this reason I prefer to do that.” It has been widely reported that Emery has a £45m transfer budget before player sales at this disposal and therefore will have to look for some bargains if he’s to bolster his squad significantly. And it just happens to be that links to arguably the best free agent on the market right now in ex-Barcelona and Paris Saint-Germain defender Dani Alves. Arsenal could do with another right-back as Hector Bellerin slowly returns from injury, so here’s what’s been said about a move to north London for the Brazilian. PSG exit
In a lengthy Instagram post last month, Dani Alves confirmed his departure from the Ligue 1 champions following two-seasons at the club. “Today I close another cycle in my life, a cycle of victory, learning and experiences,” he wrote. “I would like to thank the PSG family for the opportunity to together build a page in the history of this club. “I would like to thank all the staff for their affection, respect and complicity from day one … you make this club a little more special. Spurs ‘make contact’
Last week it was claimed that Tottenham Hotspur had made contact with Dani Alves over a summer move to the other half of north London. Journalist Duncan Castles said on The Transfer Window podcast: “As far as I understand [Alves] doesn’t have a formal contract offer from Barcelona yet. I’m told that he also has major clubs interested in him in Italy. “He definitely has the option to return to Brazil and play for one of the top clubs there for the next few seasons. “But if he’s going to stay in Europe, he has a long held ambition to play in the Premier League. “I understand there’s been contact with Tottenham Hotspur about the possibility of Dani moving there in what would seem a strange addition for Tottenham given that this is a club focused on younger players whose values will increase, players whom they can get on generally cheap salaries.” Emery’s request
According to Spanish publication AS, the Gunners head coach told the board to make Dani Alves an offer. The right-back played under Emery for one season in France and could be reunited with the Spaniard who has already said goodbye to Stephan Lichtsteiner this summer. Although, the report does state that Manchester City and Spurs are also interested. What Dani Alves has said
A few days after guiding Brazil to Copa America success, Alves spoke out about his future. “Now I’m free, but I still have a lot to accomplish in my career,” he said. “The only thing that I can say is that the club that sign me will sign a true champion.” Wage demands
The good news for Arsenal is that Dani Alves is prepared to make the move to the Emirates Stadium this summer, thus snubbing interest from across Europe as well as Man City and Spurs. He is even willing to take a pay-cut. The bad news is that he still wants £200k-a-week wages, which is something the Gunners may struggle to afford given their financial constraints. With that said, the club have saved some cash by getting Petr Cech, Aaron Ramsey, Lichtsteiner and Danny Welbeck off the books since the end of last month.