ADO-EKITI – Some hunters alleged to have escaped the superior firearms of the rampaging herdsmen in Ekiti have narrated their ordeal while mourning the death of one of theirs, Emmanuel Ilori. Ilori, 68, was allegedly killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen on the night of June 28 at Orin Farm Settlement at Orin, Ekiti. One of the hunters, Adeniyi Ajayi, said he and three others would have suffered same fate as late Ilori but for the providence. The bereaved hunter described the late Ilori as a hero who actually sacrificed his life to save the community of possible more disaster. Ajayi narrated: “I saw the unusual appearance in the farm while I was hunting that Friday night, and “I promptly put a call through to Baba as a leader. He called others on phone and eight of us, including him, headed to the place.” Other hunters, Martins Dada, Ogundele Omiata and Biodun Awomayi, who corroborated Ajayi, said the deceased hunter called them to embark on the mission, saying that while others took position at different spots, Ilori and two others went to the spot where the suspected herders were in the abandoned piggery. According to them, while the slain man attempted to dialogue with the suspected Fulani herdsmen, who according to them numbered about 30, they just opened fire on him while the other hunters scampered to safety because of the superior fireworks of the bandits. Also speaking the state chairman, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, Mr Kolawole Rotimi, said: “I want to say that losing a brave farmer like Mr Emmanuel Ilori is disheartening and discouraging. You cannot go to Orin Farm Settlement. This is part of what has bedeviled Yorubaland.’ He said. Rotimi, who alleged that there was fear of Fulani herdsmen everywhere, said: “I’m calling on our traditional rulers in Yorubaland that farmers are no more secured in their farms and all the government efforts is going to be in jeopardy if there are herdsmen everywhere as threats to our lives and farms. We don’t want them anymore. Sambisa Forest can take all the herders in the country,” he said.