Lagos – The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has insisted that its equipment across stations and airports were working optimally and in line with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).
Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, the Managing Director, NAMA, stated this over the weekend when Mr. George Uriesi, the Managing Director of the newly established Ibom Air led a delegation of the management to pay a courtesy call on Akinkuotu at the agency’s headquarters at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos.
Akinkuotu declared that the nation’s airspace was safe for seamless and economic air navigation.
According to him, NAMA had taken drastic steps to tackle communication challenges especially in the upper airspace in the past couple of years, stressing that significant progress was being made in that direction.
He explained that in the past years, he had ensured the upgrading of communication infrastructure in phases, maintaining that radio communication in the ground control, covering 65 nautical miles at the 32 air traffic control units in Nigerian airports was perfect and this was done under phase one of the project.
He said the second phase, which was the tower control, also covering 65 nautical miles and critical for landing and takeoff, was equally working optimally in all the 32 airports in the country.
The third phase which he referred to as “approach communication,” covering up to 130 nautical miles, according to him, was working optimally in all the 32 air traffic control units in the country.
He averred that although the last phase, which was the Area Control or Upper Airspace Communication, may have a few challenges, but attributed this to the creation of new routes.
He explained that the agency was making concerted efforts to address these challenges, one of which was the deployment of the Total VHF Coverage of Nigeria in 2010, which he said was limited by the architecture of 8 VHF remote radio stations deployed then.
He noted NAMA had just taken delivery of Extended Range VHF radio systems to replace old the radios in eight remote sites, while six more are to be added, making them 14 in number.
He said: “There is also the deployment of 54 VSAT nodes, inside the Aeronautical Information Services Automation project. This project has lingered through all the regimes in NAMA, but we are currently making efforts to see to the final takeoff of the automation project which we believe would boost our communication system.”
The NAMA boss declared that in line with ICAO Aviation System Block Upgrade (ASBU), which stipulated that Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSPs) provide alternative means of communication, the agency in 2015 deployed the Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Contract/Controller Pilot Data Link Communication (ADS-C/CPDLC) in Kano and Lagos Area Control Centres (ACCs) to decongest radio frequency, saying that the facility was up and running in the entire airspace.
He added that the high-powered very high frequency (VHF) Jotron radios installed at Lagos and Kano were recently commissioned by the former Minister of State, Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika who tested them with a British Airways pilot and the pilot replied him with 5/5, meaning “excellent.”
He said the delay in the assent to the 2019 budget slowed down the agency a bit, saying that NAMA was ready to extend the range of the Jotron radios.
He noted that when this was implemented on full terrestrial base systems, NAMA would have the maximum range required to cover the entire airspace and beyond.
Akinkuotu also pledged the cooperation of the agency towards making Ibom Air a strong brand.
“We want Ibom Air to succeed because if you succeed, NAMA succeeds and it is through your success that we can pay our bills,” he said.
Earlier in his remarks, Mr Uriesi said their visit was in accordance with the desire of the airline to interface with critical stakeholders and create partnerships in its quest to become a reputable airline that would be the pride of the nation.