Nnewi – The Archbishop Province of the Niger, Rt. Rev. Godwin Okpala, Bishop of Ogbaru Diocese Rt. Rev. Prosper Amah, members representing Ogbaru Federal Constituency Chukwuka Onyema and his counterpart in the Nnewi North, Nnewi South and Ekwusigo Federal Constituency Chris Azubogu, have lamented the threats to security situation in Nigeria. They called on the Federal Government to change style in its security policy.
They spoke during the Consecration Thanksgiving of Bishop Amah at St. Andrew’s Church Parish Akaboezem Uruagu Nnewi, Anambra State.
While Archbishop Okpala, who is also the Bishop of vNnewi Diocese, accused the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government of not showing sincerity in tackling the security problem in Nigeria, Bishop Amah expressed disappointment over the decay the country is going through due to lack of security. Amah added that they Federal Government is fruitlessly focusing attention on the country’s security while others sectors are going through decay.
He lamented that almost all the roads in the South East are dilapidated, “the road leading to my place here in Akaboezem Nnewi is impassable, please my guest when you go back do not make reference to this road, am ashamed that I brought you to go through this road.”
Onyema and his counterpart, Azubogu, said that the hands of the National Assembly are tied on arresting the threatening security problem as it is the duty of the Executive to solve it. The duo added that it their duty is just to make the law and pass to the Executive.
According to Archbishop Okpala “the selective victimisation of groups threatening the security of Nigeria is not helping President Buhari’s administration, it is even worsening the security in country.
“President Buhari cannot be talking about proscribing and declaring the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) as a terrorist group, when the main terrorist groups, Fulani herdsmen and the Myitti Allah Cattle Breeders’
Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), everybody in Nigeria knows are the problem, are left to continue their violent activities of killing people even in their villages.
“The first people that should be proscribed and declared terrorist groups are the Fulani herdsmen and their parent body, MACBAN, everybody knows are behind most of the violent killings of people and invading their communities as if nobody can challenge them.
“Proscription and declaration of groups as terrorist should be across board, it is one sided now and it is not helping the Presidents fight against insecurity and terrorism in Nigeria.
“Those he made the Service Chiefs are his people and they cannot do more than he wants them to do and that is why Nigerians are calling for the picking of Service Chiefs from across the country and not from one ethnic group.”
However, Onyema and Azubogu called on the Executive to pass the responsibility of solving the security problem to the National Assembly if they cannot solve it, adding that they lawmakers are capable of solving the problems.
According to Onyema, a three-time member of House of Representatives, “everybody in Nigeria knows the problem and the solutions. As lawmakers, we know but we cannot execute because we can only legislate and pass on to the Executive for the solutions to come.”
“However, if the Executive is finding it difficult to solve the security problem of the country, it should allow the National Assembly to address it. We are capable of doing it, we know what to do but our hands are tied because we do not want to be seen as usurping another arm of the government job.
“We legislate and hand over to the Executive, the executive executes, but it seems they have failed in doing that, the insecurity problem in the country is going out of hand, the executive has not done well in
addressing it and iis unfortunate and worrisome”
Corroborating his colleague’s position, Hon. Azubogu called the Federal Government to sincerely put plans and policies at work to address the country’s security problem otherwise the government will be regarded as having failed if the security of the people cannot beguaranteed.