LAGOS – Players in the Nigerian aviation industry have called on the Federal Government to review the existing Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) arrangements the country has with other nations. Stakeholders stated this yesterday at the 23rd annual conference of the League of Airport and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC) with the theme: ‘Boosting Aviation Investments: Through Policy,’ held in Lagos. Dr. Gabriel Olowo, President of Aviation Round Table (ART) in his presentation, ‘Boosting Aviation Investments: Through Policy: Government Perspective,’ said Nigeria needed a stable legal and regulatory frameworks to grow the industry. Olowo decried the multiple entry point’s granter foreign airlines, describing it as “disastrous and deliberate annihilation of the domestic market.’ He said a situation where some airlines fly to multiple airports in Nigeria without any Nigerian airline reciprocating was a negative balance of trade, which should be reversed by the country’s government. “The essence of regulation is not only about safety. We have failed with economic regulations. This is a major weakness,” he said. Also, the Chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Muneer Bankole, the Managing Director, Med-View Airline in his presentation called for support for indigenous airlines. He lamented that the international aero politics was working against the Nigerian airlines with government not willing to intervene. Bankole said overbearing government intervention and policy inconsistency caused the nosediving of the aviation sector. He bemoaned that the liquidation of Nigeria Airways crashed aviation in Nigeria. Mr. Nick Fadugba, the President of African Airlines Association, said a situation where 90 per cent of the Nigerian market was controlled by non-Nigerian airline was damaging to the economy. “Nigeria needs to urgently review its BASA policy. An air route is like an oil bloc. You don’t just give it out without something in return, “ he added. He said Nigeria deserves a national carrier with minority government shareholding and it must be done transparently and skilfully with knowledgeable individuals. Besides, Mr. Allen Onyema, Chairman of Air Peace, said the government had no option, but to support the Nigerian airlines to thrive and protect jobs of thousands of Nigerians in their employ. Capt. Roland Iyayi declared there was no aviation policy in place, saying, “all the supposed policies we have are borne out of knee-jerk reaction.” In attendance were Managing Directors of Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria FAAN (FAAN), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), and Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu and Capt. Muhammed Abdulsalam respectively. Also in attendance were Chairman/CEO of Air Peace, Mr. Allen Onyema; Managing Director, Top Brass Airline, Capt. Roland Iyayi; Country Manager of Emirates, Afzal Parambil; Country Manager, Ethiopian Airlines, Firiehiewot Mekonne, among others.