LAGOS – Before his election as Governor of Oyo State on March 9, 2019, Engr. Seyi Makinde the Ibadan-born engineer and businessman has never held a public office. Politics is largely an uncharted territory for him, though he had been baptised in it since 2012. He has never filled an asset declaration form before but he made a commitment to make his assets public once sworn in as Governor. It was a promise made in the heat of electioneering campaign and one that can easily be swept under the carpet. The campaign crowd might have forgotten and in the typical Nigerian style, the memories are short. Existential issues daily contend with space in the memory and so, not many would have avenues in their long term memories. To close watchers of the governor, Makinde is not one person that would refuse to keep his words. His words are always his bond. And he measurably picks those words, because for him, it is just true that words are like raw eggs; once dropped on the floor, you can’t have them back. On Monday July 15, Governor Makinde made history as he stepped into the office Complex of the Code of conduct Bureau (CCB) in Ibadan Oyo state. He requested a copy of the Assets Declaration Forms for Public Office Holders he had submitted on assumption of office and immediately made a copy available through the office of his Chief Press Secretary. It was a commendable act as the Governor of Oyo State made history by releasing a detailed declaration of assets the public. It was a tough decision really, but one for which he took personal responsibility. Friends and associates kept up the pressure to dissuade him. Many were afraid the decision could be read upside down by overtly negative political minds; some were afraid it would expose them as friends of a young billionaire and some others gave different reasons. But Governor Makinde insisted, saying ‘my words must remain my bond. To stay true to accountability and probity, you must keep your words as your bond. You must keep yourself an open book and like it is often said, he who comes with equity must come with clean hands.’ If Governor Makinde is pushing for the establishment of an anti-corruption agency in Oyo State, he must show the example and if he has promised to be accountable to the people, he must lead the way. And by publicly declaring his assets, he is leading with the right steps. It is indeed a mark of a man desirous of returning Oyo State to its Pacesetting status-a state of many firsts. Speaking to newsmen at the CCB office in Ibadan, immediately after obtaining a copy of the assets declaration form, Makinde said: “I came here to collect the photocopy of the form that I signed in fulfilment of the campaign promise to the people that I will declare my asset publicly and release the document to the public. “I will encourage all the members of my cabinet to do the same thing but in as much they stay within the ambit of the law, I will encourage them to do the same.” According to the details made public via the document tagged CCB 1 and marked OYSE/2019/001, which was sworn to at the High Court of Oyo State, Governor Makindeis worth over N48 billion in assets. The document gave details of cash at hand, in bank, landed properties (developed and undeveloped), household items, shares and bonds owed by the Governor, his wife, Omini Makinde as well as his companies. It indicated that the Governor had cash at hand and in bank worth N234, 742,296.01, on the 28th of May, 2019.In dollar terms, the Governor has cash valued at $30,056.99 as of the same date. Properties, including the developed and undeveloped as well as household items indicated on the asset forms showed that the Governor is worth N2.6 billion, with another $4.4 million assets denominated in the green back currency. The house listed by the governor includes nine in Nigeria, two in the United States of America (USA) and one in South Africa. One of the properties in the United States is “jointly owned.” “The details showed the current value of Makinde’s companies stand at N48, 150,736,889 (forty eight billion, one hundred and fifty million, seven hundred and thirty six thousand, eight hundred and eighty nine Naira), with 33, 730,000 units of shares as at May 28, 2019,” the statement released by his spokesman read, while also listing the Governor’s existing Bonds, (Eurobond) worth $3, 793, 500 as well as shares, debentures and other securities valued at N120,500,000(One hundred and twenty million, five hundred thousand Naira). The asset form also linked the following companies to the Governor of Oyo state: Makon Engineering and Technical Services Limited; Energy Traders and Technical Services Limited; Makon Oil and Gas Limited; Makon Group Limited, Makon Construction Limited and Makon Power System Limited. Four of the listed Companies are noted to have loan notes including Makon Engineering and Technical Services Limited(N1.7 billion); Makon Power System Limited(N148.4 million); Makon Oil and Gas Limited(N341 million); Energy Traders and Technical Services Limited(N1.159bn), the total amounts to N3.389 billion. The governor’s action has made him the toast of many Nigerians and earned him praises even in unlikely quarters – the Presidency. Lauretta Onochie, President Muhammadu Buhari’s aide on social media while praising the governor said he was following the footsteps of the President and his vice, Yemi Osinbajo, who did the same thing when they assumed office in 2015. “Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has published his asset declaration document, which shows he has in excess of N48 billion in both cash and properties.“Although it’s not compulsory to publish it, he’s following the footsteps of President Buhari and Professor Osinbajo as they did in 2015”. Also, Atiku Abubakar, PDP presidential candidate in the 2019 election expressed delight at Makinde for fulfilling his electoral pledge of making his assets declaration public. Atiku, in a statement by his media aide, Paul Ibe, said the Governor, by this action, demonstrates that integrity is not a mere lip homage but a consistent course of action of an individual doing as they promised. Atiku commended the Governor for his forthrightness and also expresses his support to him and his administration in delivering good governance in the Pace Setter’s state. The statement added, “Recall that the Governor had hit the ground running after his swearing in as governor with ground breaking policies that seek to frontally address the problems of corruption in public and private sectors and also in advancing the access to universal basic education. These are programmes to which the PDP is heartily committed”. “By this, the Governor has spoken without any ambiguity, that his administration will not condone corruption. His example is highly recommended to other leaders at all levels of government,” the statement noted. However, rather than commend the governor, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State challenged the governor to disclose his source of wealth. Akin Oke, chairman of the party said: “I don’t think I want to make comment on the issue, since I have no idea, but it raises a number of issues. He just declared what he has but not how he came about it”. Responding to APC, Alhaji Kunmi Mustapha, Oyo State Chairman of the PDP, said his comment on Makinde’s assets declarations is reckless, unpatriotic, uncivilised and a wicked approach to discourage men of goodwill from partaking in politics. Mustapha said he expected Oke to ask questions from his party’s governorship candidate in the last election, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, on how he sourced for billions of naira he allegedly spent on gubernatorial campaign as well as hundreds of vehicles he purchased for the campaign. He said: “If a government worker like Adelabu could spend lavishly without blinking and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is looking the other way, then how much more a businessman with chains of businesses in almost four continents of the world? “Mathematically, a man who pays N1.5 billion in tax should be in a position to have more than N48 billion declared and here is a man who believes private citizens must pay tax for the government to have enough to take care of the less privileged in the society” he said.