ABUJA – In an effort to provide accurate, valid and reliable data for proper planning in schools, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has urged all school heads and principals not to falsify data in the Federal Capital Territory Level Annual School Census.
This, according to the permanent secretary, Christian Ohaa, carries heavy penalty and leads to bad plans.
He made this known at the 2018/2019 Federal Capital Territory Level Annual School Census in Abuja on Thursday, saying, the key objective was to significantly improve the collection of every education data and for management of same for making better plans for higher achievement of educational objectives.
According to him, “Every school head or principal, including those of the military, paramilitary, federal unity colleges and private schools, has to provide these facts and information on the learners, teachers’ structures, facilities programmes and activities of the school.
“This is to particularly ensure that every child is counted and reported on. The data are for policy formulation, decision making and planning for individual and societal development. School data will not be used to levy charges on school owners.
“FCT Administration has embraced the challenge of ASC and has deployed resources for e-education, education management information system and ICT-personnel for gathering and processing the data. And in a few weeks from today, the actual exercise would be in most parts of every area council.
“I, therefore, adjure you all to fully cooperate to make this year’s FCT level ASC fully accurate reliable and on time, with good thinking. We can get it right,” he stressed.
Earlier, the director, Administration and Finance, Education Secretariat, Umar Mafara, said the FCT level ASC is meant to collect relevant, reliable and timely data from all schools in order to ensure proper planning, monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the system for effective management of education in FCT and in Nigeria.