ABUJA – The upper chamber of the National Assembly Thursday took the Global System Mobile telecommunications (GSM) network providers in the country to the cleaners over what it calls poor service delivery.
Berating the service providers for dropped calls, the Senate condemned their inefficiency, which it said resulted in the poor services.
The lawmakers, have, however, directed the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to carry out a thorough investigation of the causes of dropped calls in the GSM network and come up with innovations that would improve customer experience.
The Senate urged the NCC to “invoke the appropriate provisions of the law and other extant agreements to protect consumers where necessary.”.
It also said that refund should henceforth be made to the customers “for disrupted calls caused by network issues and allow them have more control over their usage of data bundles as practised by telecommunications operators in countries like Kenya and South Africa.”
The lawmakers further urged NCC and other regulatory agencies to carry out effective supervision of the telecoms service providers to ensure regulatory excellence, operational efficiency and sterling service delivery.
The resolution of the Senate followed a motion sponsored by Senator Abdulfatai Buhari and 34 others.
Leading debate on the motion, Senator Buhari accused the telecommunication operators of robbing Nigerians of their hard earned billions of naira through network related call disconnections.
He lamented that GSM operators “have recently been experiencing terrible congestion on their networks, thus denying subscribers the benefits of getting value for their resources and hampering their ability to make or receive calls successfully”.
Senator Buhari said though service providers had continued to expand their networks coverage beyond what their existing infrastructure could carry, no adequate effort has been made to enhance the experience of their customers. He said, “A recent investigation shows that four major operators, namely, MTN, Airtel, Etisalat and Globacom could not provide the rate of drop calls on their networks, and appears not to see the reason to compensate their customers for disconnected calls or address their frustrations.” In his remarks, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, who presided over the plenary, warned that the 9th Senate would do everything to protect Nigerians against exploitation by telecoms service providers. Lawan further warned that the Senate would not only bark but bite this time around, adding that the upper chamber would conduct a public hearing on the matter where the regulator, NCC and the telecoms operators, would be invited.