Manchester United have officially announced that Dean Henderson has agreed a new three-year deal and has been sent on a season-long loan to Sheffield United.
According to an official announcement from Manchester United, Dean Henderson has penned a new three-year contract with the club. The United academy graduate has been subsequently allowed to return to Sheffield United on a season-long loan in order to garner some first-team and Premier League experience. The club also retain an option to extend the contract by a further year as per the new deal. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer highlighted Henderson’s potential, backing the 22-year-old to become a quality goalkeeper while also iterating that the opportunity to play regularly for a season in the Premier League will do wonders for the youngster’s development. Henderson himself seemed delighted at having agreed a new contract with his boyhood club and did not hide his excitement at returning to Bramall Lane for another season. Henderson said, “The club has been amazing in designing an individual pathway to aid my development which will enable me to reach my potential and perform at the highest level possible. Signing this contract is such a proud moment for myself and my family; I’ve worked so hard to reach this point and I want to do everything I can to repay the faith the club has shown in me.” “I am looking forward to being back at Bramall Lane, the opportunity to be reunited with the coaches and play in front of the amazing fans again is one that I am relishing. I cannot wait to enjoy a full season of Premier League football which I know will be hugely beneficial for my career.” Dean Henderson spent the 2018-19 season on loan at Sheffield United. The 22-year-old showed immense maturity and leadership quality along with his shot stopping ability for the Blades as they snatched the second automatic promotion spot to return to the Premier League after a healthy hiatus. Henderson was ever-present in the Championship for Sheffield United and kept 21 clean sheets in the league, conceding just 41 goals in 46 games. It wasn’t much of a surprise when the 22-year-old was named the club’s Young Player of the Year and the Community Player of the Year for the season while also winning the Golden Glove in the Championship. The passion showed by Henderson towards Sheffield United, his temporary home, should excite Manchester United fans. The 22-year-old is tipped to be the long-term successor to David de Gea once the Spaniard moves on and the loan move will be crucial in helping Henderson reach his goal of becoming the first-choice of his boyhood club.