ABAKALIKI – National Assembly members from Ebonyi State on Monday debunked social media reports insinuating that politicians from the state based in Abuja have formed a group known as Abuja Group to checkmate the state governor, Engr. David Umahi, and to fight against his preferred successor in 2023. Two members of the House of Representatives from State, Hon. Laz Ogbee and Hon. Anayo Edwin Nwonu, described the social media reports as mischievous, malicious and cheap propaganda calculated by the enemies of the state to cause bad blood between the governor and the National Assembly members from the state.
In their separate reactions, the two lawmakers frowned atthe allegations which they said were concocted deliberately to smear the integrity of the personalities, cause disaffections and heat up the polity unnecessarily.
The meeting which was purportedly held in a hotel along Bisala Road, Abuja, according to the social media reports, was allegedly attended by Senator Obinna Ogba (Ebonyi Central); Laz Ogbee (Ezza South/Ikwo); Edwin Nwonu (Ezza North/Ishielu); Chief Elias Mbam (RMAFC); Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu; Sylvester Ogbaga (Abakaliki/Izzi) and the current Deputy Governor of the state, Dr. Kelechi Igwe, among others.
Ogbee, who is representing Ikwo and Ezza South Federal Constituency, noted that no such meeting took place and he has not been approached by any individual or group to discuss about Umahi’s successor.
The Lawmaker, who described Governor Umahi as a team player, noted that it was uncharitable for any individual to be talking about the next governor of the state, as that would distract the giant strides of the Umahi’s administration.
Ogbee said, “No meeting was held anywhere. It’s the figment of their imagination. The allegation was mischievous, unthinkable and cheap propaganda concocted to smear my integrity. It is a lie from pit of hell. The proponents of this malicious and vicious propaganda merely wanted to cause disaffection between some members of the National Assembly and our leader, Governor David Umahi. It was ploy to paint me black as fighting the state governor but the mischief makers misfired.
“Anyone talking about who will be the next governor of our dear state primarily want to distract the good works of our governor and I have never been consulted by any individual or group to discuss who or how the next governor will emerge.
“We are proud of the governor for what he is doing in the state and I know him as a team player. When the time comes for him to choose his successor, I know that he would consult all relevant stakeholders and leaders of our dear state as he has always done in critical matters of such importance.”.
On his part, Nwonu representing Ishielu and Ezza North Federal Constituency said that no discerning mind would take the allegation seriously, as the intention was only to heat up the polity and cause disaffection among key stakeholders in the state.
“The few members of the opposition party in the state want to cause infraction amongst us. They want to create atmosphere where some people will be seen as fighting the state government. I have not even met the people mentioned in a roundtable since this year. The allegation is a cheap one and never existed,” he said.