Members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), popularly known as Shiites, are on war path. They have been protesting the continued detention of their leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenah, for over four years. Although, there were some court orders to the effect that he and his detained wife should be granted bail, the Federal Government has been adamant, hence they have been languishing in prison without trial, even to the detriment of their health. Thus, his followers had for over four years now, been agitating for his release, carrying out protests from time to time, during which they block the roads, and disrupting traffic flow. On several occasions, the Shiites had fallen out with security agents, with many of them killed in the process. During the current protest, which started last Monday and climaxed on Tuesday, the Shiites, in thousands, stormed the National Assembly complex as the House of Representatives were in session. They reportedly overpowered security men at the gate of the Assembly complex and were said to have disarmed some policemen. Several of the protesters were reportedly killed in the process and 40 arrested. Also, nine policemen were also injured and taken to the hospital. This as the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu ordered 24-hours surveillance on the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and its environ. Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker, hurriedly adjourned sitting, saying lawmakers would have to adjourn “due to security concerns” while an executive session was mooted to deliberate the incident later. So far, the Shiites have sustained their protests in Abuja, while some of them also protested in Lagos on Thursday, in an effort to arouse public sympathy over their cause, which was the demand for the release of El-Zakzaky, who was arrested for blocking the road with his followers when a top military officer was passing through the road leading to Kaduna State four years ago. The Shiites’ Demand The leader of the protest, Abdullahi Musa explained that the life of their detained master was in danger, alleging that he had been poisoned in detention. According to him, the level of lead poison in the blood of  El-Zakzaky, as detected by the doctors was 201.7 milligrams, which they said was abnormal and therefore  has put his life in danger. According to Musa, “His life is in danger and there is no reason for us to go back and sit down at home. The oppressors always brutalise, oppress and instill fears in the mind of the people.  We are ready to die in this cause and we have said it that we must come and they should get ready. If they like they should come and kill us.” He, however, denied the insinuations that members of the movement shot police officers and vandalised 50 vehicles at the National Assembly, explaining that it was the police officers who were in mufti that should be held responsible for the arson. “We have been protesting…. The protest took more than two hours peacefully before the police attack the protesters.  So, we will never surrender and we will not stop what we are doing, this is our constitutional rights. It is the right of Sheik El-Zakzaky to go for medical treatment and the court has granted him the freedom and they should allow him to go, ”  Musa added. Senate Speaks On Shiites’ Crisis A member of the Senate Ad-hoc Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Betty Apiafi, said the demands of a Shiite group were beyond the National Assembly. She spoke when some members of the committee briefed newsmen at the National Assembly last  Wednesday. The committee led by its chairman, Adedayo Adeyeye, was reacting to the invasion of the National Assembly by the protesting the Shiites, members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria. While condemning the attack, Adeyeye said mob overpowered the security apparatus of the National Assembly through its main entrance known as MOPOL Gate. He said they forcefully seized one of the security operatives’ gun, shot two security personnel, unleashed terror on others, vandalised the gate, and burnt three vehicles of innocent individuals, while many other cars were vandalised. The lawmaker called on all relevant security agencies to fish out the perpetrators. “While the National Assembly is a public place for Nigerians, citizens must follow proper channels and protocols if they have cause(s) to access its premises. Senate hereby calls for security beef up within the National Assembly and other institutions henceforth,” he said. When asked about the petition written by the group to the National Assembly, he said the petition was written to the Eight Senate. “Not to this one to the best of my knowledge. Moreover, if they want to come here in furtherance of their petition, there are better ways to do that. Maybe send one or two of their leaders, book appointment and they will be attended to,” he said. The committee was asked why the National Assembly had not done anything about the continuous protest and demand of the group. Ms Apiafi said the National assembly had discussed this issue, but not during plenary. She said: “We try to interface with the people involved and try to find out how the issue can be resolved. We have had several discussions in the House of Representatives with Committee on National Security and other relevant committees and I don’t think the way the group is handling the issue is the best. “While discussions are going on, we are well respected and very important part of the country. They have a right to protest but they don’t really need to come in that large number because when they come that way, they kind of present themselves as a threat. “They can always send delegations and they will get properly briefed as to how far. We do sympathise with them and their case. I know there have been one or two court judgments in that aspect. Its something that is beyond us.”. Since the December 2015 incident, Mr El-Zakzaky and his wife Zeenah have been in detention; first without trial for about a year. They were eventually charged with murder for the death of a soldier during the December 2015 incident. Abuja Natives Want FG To Act Meanwhile, natives of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), who were disturbed by the Shiites’ crisis, also gave the Federal Government 48 hours to end the protests in Abuja. The natives, who described the protest by the group as constituting nuisance in society, warned that if government failed to take decisive steps to tackle the group, it might snowball to senseless killings and destruction of public property. Speaking on behalf of the group, Comrade Yunusa Yusuf, noted that the Shiite movement should organise themselves in responsible way, just as it was the case with “Bring Back Our Girls” protest. The spokesman, who expressed displeasure over the protest at the National Assembly by members of the Shiite movement, warned that further protest by the group in the nation’s capital might lead to counter attack by the indigenous people of Abuja. He also expressed concern that the protest had led to injuries to seven indigenous women, who are currently receiving treatment in different hospitals across the territory. Yusuf further stated that the Abuja natives who are being marginalised have not embarked on such destructive protest, stressing that any attempt to disrupt the peace of Abuja by any political or religious group would be resisted by the natives. According to him, “We are disturbed by the recent protest by Shiite movement to the National Assembly leading to various degrees if injuries and destruction of property. We are sad because the Shiites group is not the only aggrieved group in this country. We, the indigenous people of Abuja are equally aggrieved over so many issues, ranging from ministerial slots and deliberate marginalization of our people. “We did not take the laws into our hands, but we have conducted ourselves peacefully even in the face of provocation by security agents. Therefore, we do not see any reason why certain group will disrupt the peace of our land. At this point, we are giving the Federal Government 48 hours to end the Shiites’ protest or we might do it in our own ways.” He advised the Shiite group to relocate to Kaduna to press home their demands, noting that the crisis started in Kaduna State. However, a cross section of Nigerians have been wondering why the Federal Government had been adamant to release the Shiites leader considering the fact that he had been granted court bail several times by courts of competent jurisdiction. The question is: Should the FG free the detained leader of the Shiites movement? FG Should Release El-Zakzaky Dr. Christopher Imen Ogedegbe, a Benin-based human rights activist, said: “Sheikh El-Zakzaky has been in detention for over four years now without trial and I believe there is nothing incriminating against him to warrant his arraignment before any court of competent jurisdiction. “Since the Federal Government cannot charge him to any court for any offence, he should be released to avoid further loss of innocent souls that are being killed anytime his followers embark on a protest in Abuja or Kuduna. “It was recently I was made to understand that Sheikh El-Zakzaky is not in support of the current herdsmen’s war against Nigerians, which I was told was one of the reason he has been detained without trial. I don’t know how authentic that information is, but whatever caused his detention for over four years now, it is time to reveal it to Nigerians. “He is now curing the sympathy of many Nigerians. By the Nigeria Construction, you cannot detain a citizen of this country indefinitely without trial. It is a breach of the Constitution, which the President sworn to uphold. The President should look at the situation passionately and set the man free. If they believe that the man is a security threat that there is danger in his freedom, then they will find a way of monitoring his movement soon after his release.” FG Should Not Succumb To Shiites’ Intimidation Nzeh Nwajiaku Clement Amanta, former House of Representatives aspirant and member, New Generation Party (NGP), Owerri North council area in Imo State, “The Federal Government should not succumb to the intimidation of the followers of Sheikh El-Zakzaky at all. In the first place, do you solve a problem and create another problem at the same time? “The Shiites have not shown any remorse of the offence that led to the arrest and detention of their leader. We all know that Islamic fundamentalism is one of the major problems we have in this country. The Shiites movement is a militant group ready to wreak havoc anytime, anywhere. Look at what they did recently at the National Assembly. The man should be there until his die-hard followers learn their lesson.” El-Zakzaky Should Be Released With Conditions Mrs. Victoria Akukwe Ubanwa, retired teacher and woman leader, Providence People Congress (PPC), Nwangele LGA of Imo State, stated: “The Federal Government should give the Shiites movement some conditions upon which their leader can be left off the hook. If they accept such conditions, the man should be released. But if they refuse, then let him remain where he is. “The Shiites movement behaves like criminals and if we just release their leader without attaching some conditions to it, they might continue doing what they are doing.”