Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Do you know that July 11th is World Population Day? Do you know that World Population Day was established by the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme in 1989, exactly 25 years ago? Do you know that the theme of 2018 World Population day is Family Planning is a human right? Do you know that by implication, people have the right to decide the fate of the unborn child? With family planning people cannot just control the number of their children but they can as well to eliminate unwanted pregnancy. Do you equally know that this theme holds that the reduction of human population is the solution to the perennial problem of poverty? Do you even know that family planning is one of the ways through which human population is controlled and even reduced? Do you know that artificial human planning products are the most affordable and most available products in the world today, especially in third world countries like Africa? Do you know that this year’s World Population Day calls for global attention to the unfinished business of the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development. The ICPD Programme firmly established that the rights and dignity of individuals, rather than numerical population targets, were the best way for individuals to realise their own fertility goals. Furthermore, governments acknowledged that these rights are essential for global development…” According to the United Nation’s Population Fund “Voluntary access to modern contraception has increased by 25 per cent since 1994, and the quality of family planning services has also greatly improved. Yet hundreds of millions of women are still not using modern contraceptives to prevent unwanted pregnancies.” Do you know that the so-called unwanted pregnancies are human beings like us? Do you know that every unborn child has the right to live? Have you ever wondered what would have happened if your parents would have aborted you? Do you know that the Igbo people of Nigeria and so many African communities strongly believe that “Igwe bu ike.” Meaning, “there is strength in crowd” – the more the population, the stronger the community. Do you know that as at January 1, 2018, the world population is estimated to be 7,444,443,881? And do you know that the current world population is 7,715,462,174? Do you know that most of the world superpowers are not under-populated? Do you know that China is the most populated country in the world with a total number of 1,420,116,652, yet China is among the fastest growing economy in the world? Do you know that United States of America is the 3rd most populated country in the world, with a total 329,118,531, yet United States of America is the World Super Power? Do you know that Nigeria is the 7th most populated nation in the world? Do you know that the current population of Nigeria is 201,018,496? Do you know that Nigeria is the most populated country in the whole of Africa? Do you know that Nigeria is the Giant of Africa? Do you even know that Nigeria is among the fastest growing economy in the whole of Africa? Do you know that most of the developed world see Nigeria’s population as a threat to the world? Do you now know why UN and other developed countries are slow in bringing a lasting solution to the problem of insecurity and insurgencies in Nigeria? Now you know why the Americans are ever ready to support Nigeria with the provision of ammunitions, presumably, this is an indirect way to reduce the population of Nigeria. Do you know population reduction is reduction of Man-power? Do you know that any attack against human population is an attack against natural order? Do you even know that the first mandate given to man in the bible is for man to multiply, fill the earth and subdue it (Genesis 1:28) Do you even know that the culture of death (such as contraception, abortion, Euthanasia and other forms of artificial family planning) are not just against the natural laws they also against God’s commandment? Do you know that in Genesis Chapter 11 the Tower of Babel was destroyed because human beings were trying to control human population? Do you know that our generation have not learnt their lesson from what happened at the tower of babel? Do you know that in first Chronicles chapter 21 when king David wanted to manipulate the population of the Israelites by taking census of the Israelites he was severely punished? Do you know that gay union does not in any way promote human population? Do you know that when it comes to life we have little or no choice? Life comes from God. We cannot take away what we cannot give. Do you know that we are all called to promote and protect life from the very moment of conception? Do you know that every human being, even the child in her mother’s womb, has a right to live? Paul Ehrlich, one of the famous population control advocates visited the Holy Father before his speech at the Pontifical Academy of Sciences. He revealed his real agenda when he advocated in an interview with The Guardian for reducing the world’s population by 6 billion people to bring it down to 1 billion people. Ehrlich, a biologist at Stanford University, is best known for his best-selling book, The Population Bomb, published in 1968. The book warned of a global overpopulation crisis that portended mass starvation, riots, economic depression and destruction of the environment. His neo-Malthusian argument raised the alarm against a population explosion in developed and developing countries. His solution was “radical surgery” to excise the “cancer” of runaway human population growth. Without strong coercive measures for population control, he predicted, hundreds of millions would starve to death. This is the most pessimistic ways of looking at reality. In his encyclical on the environment, Pope Francis slams attacks against human life such as abortion, embryonic experimentation and population control – saying that respect for creation and human dignity go hand in hand. “Instead of resolving the problems of the poor and thinking of how the world can be different, some can only propose a reduction in the birth rate,” Francis lamented. He denounced the fact that developing countries often receive pressure from international organizations who make economic assistance “contingent on certain policies of ‘reproductive health.’” Even though an unequal distribution of population and available resources presents obstacles to development and environmental sustainability, “it must nonetheless be recognised that demographic growth is fully compatible with an integral and shared development,” he stressed. To blame a growing population for these problems rather than the, “extreme and selective consumerism on the part of some, is one way of refusing to face the issues.”