Benin – Mr. Fred Omonuwa, chairman, College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), Ekiadolor chapter, weekend alleged that no fewer than 30,000 students have been denied admission into the institution since its closure by the state government in 2015. It would be recalled that the school was changed from College of Education, Ekiadolor, to Tayo Akpata University of Education by the immediate past governor of the state, Adams Oshiomhole in 2015. Omonuwa, who disclosed this in Benin while speaking to newsmen, said the possibility of the school resuming academic session next month in Abudu, Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State, as promised by the government was very remote Omonuwa said the institution, before its sudden closure was admitting not less than 5,000 to 6,000 students per academic session and that when the number is multiplied by the number of years it has been closed down, all together would amount to about 20,000 to 30,000 students that have been deprived of their chances to be admitted into the school. “A lot of Edo citizens particularly the middle class people for the past four or five years have been deprived basic education. We are looking at the region of between 20,000 and 30,000.” “Ekiadolor was housing up to 5,000 to 6,000 even sometime if it is booming, 7,000 per section; calculate it by the numbers of years that the school has stopped admission, you can easily tell. “At the time they stopped admission, we were having up to 5,000 to 6,000 students, multiply it by the number of years, a lot of Edo citizens have been deprived and they are all looking. No body is talking,” he lamented. The COEASU chairman said that the decision to take the College of Education to Abudu was not a good decision due to lack of facilities. “Yes they promised it is going to be a multi-campus system, that Abudu cannot take a department in the present day college of education, Ekiadolor, which of course we can even say it is inadequate. On the part of the chairman, Senior Staff Union of Colleges of Education (COLBEN) chapter, Mr. Ken Omoruyu, he said the union had written several letters to government seeking clarification on so many issues that bordered on the status of the college. “When we talked about status, we are talking about who are we? Are we still college of education or the proposed Tayo Akpata University of Education?” he asked.