Benin – Baba Franco Osazuwa, a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State at weekend urged President Muhammadu Buhari to call Adams Oshiomhole, the party’s national chairman, to order before he finally destroys what remains of the party in the state and the country.
This is coming as the Oredo foremost APC leader also called on Governor Godwin Obaseki to probe Oshiomhole’s tenure as two-term governor of Edo State.
Osazuwa, popularly called Baba Franco, while addressing a press conference after a meeting of APC leaders in Oredo Local Government Area of the state, said: “Mr. President, I am appealing to you to call Adams Oshiomhole to order before the reputation of our great party is meddled with mud due to the undemocratic credentials of the national chairman.
“My appeal to you Mr. President has become imperative and requires urgent attention because the uncouth action of the national chairman has found expression in the multiple crises in several states in the country, including imposed congresses, as well as skewed primaries,” he said.
According to him, “it doesn’t seem like Oshiomhole knows that he is no longer Edo State governor, because he sees his new office as the party’s national chairman as a means to unduly exert himself in Edo State.
“He abuses his office by imposing candidates (his loyalist) during the primaries in the state, with the intent of using them to cage the governor.
“The big question is, how it happened that most of the leaders didn’t see this coming, especially from a man who the gods were kind to, and the Binis in particular who are in overwhelming majority in the state gave their support to become governor and at the end became a multi-billionaire with palatial mansions in different parts of the country and outside without business address”.
While urging Governor Obaseki to look into Oshiomhole’s tenure as governor of Edo State for eight years, Osazuwa alleged that no governor in the history of Edo State has taken over state land/property for himself and cronies like Oshiomhole did as governor especially, prime properties which Obaseki should investigate in public interest, as well as justice.
Going into history, Osazuwa said: “The journey started with a huge ray of hope for us in Edo State in 2007 from Action Congress (AC) to Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) to the present All Progressives Congress (APC) under the leadership of Adams Oshiomhole.
“It is interesting to note that central to our campaign manifesto prior to 2007 gubernatorial election is the “Say No To Godfatherism” slogan, an initiative of our former comrade governor, a message in which a huge resources was spent and it endeared our party to Edo people who ensured our victory in that election that brought Oshiomhole to power.
“Over a decade after, we are overtaken by nostalgia, because the man who fought perceived godfathers has turned himself into a worse version,” he alleged.
Osazuwa also noted that while Oshiomhole governed Edo, Lucky Igbinedion, who supported him and financed his election, was not given a room by the comrade to get some persons appointed even as aides into his government.
He said in Oshiomhole’s eight years in the helm of affairs in Edo State, nothing was heard from Igbinedion, rather as a benefactor; he and his kindred kept receiving tantrums from the beneficiary.
Continuing he said, “another interesting contrast was the time John Odigie Oyegun served as the national chairman of APC and the governor then now the national chairman of the same party, was the leader of the party in the state.
Oyegun never interfered with the activities of neither the government nor the APC in the state, as is the case today.
Though Oshiomhole was the leader of the party in the state as governor, after handing over to Mr. Godwin Obaseki, he convoked a meeting of the party leaders to adopt him as the leader of the party in the state against the norm which he enjoyed as a governor”.