Players in the nation’s aviation industry frowned at the recent report of a go-around initiated by one of the pilots of Ethiopian Airlines aircraft at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos as “escape death” by some Nigerian media. Those spoken to say the advent of social media is killing professional reporting. OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. The entire global aviation industry was awash recently when an Ethiopian Airlines aircraft Boeing 777-300, aborted landing at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos.
The pilot had aborted the landing at the airport, after encountering bad weather during landing processes and made a go-around the airport for a better positioning and smooth landing.
But, that singular decision of the pilot, received hue and cry from some segments of the country, who described the go-around as “394 passengers” including former President Olusegun Obsanjo “escape death.”
The report and the attention it generated did not however, go down well with stakeholders and professionals in the sector who insisted that the decision was a safety procedure expected from proven pilots.
Since the report received public attention, a lot has been said on the activities of social media, which many insist unnecessarily hype events without due justification and called for regulation of the platform.
Many warned that if this was not curbed, relative safety enjoyed in the sector in recent time may be jeopardised as pilots may decide to take unwarranted risk in the future, which might result into a crash or major incident.
Capt. Hamisu Yadudu, the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) in an interview with our correspondent, said that the aborted flight incident involving the airline was a normal safety procedure expected from pilots.
Yadudu said that pilots were trained to do a go-around in case of poor visibility that may not be conducive for safe landing.
He explained that the aircraft had an aborted landing at the airport because of the weather situation at that point in time, stressing that pilots were trained for such emergencies and more.
He insisted that the situation was a normal safety procedure, which was followed by the pilot and commended him for the professional decision.
Yadudu explained that such a sensational report in the media may compel pilots to take wrong decisions in the future.
He said: “A go-around is a normal procedure, not an abnormal situation. Even, abnormal situations are even catred for by the aircraft manufacturers and even the system. In all procedures, you have redundancy, which is also known as alternatives.
“I remember I did a go-around twice in one of our airports. As long as you have enough fuel in your aircraft, you can do a go-around. It is also part of the training we go through. In the cause of your training, you can do a go-around about five or seven times in a flight.
“Flying is a serious business. We have a duty to report accurately about the industry. Whatever is reported here goes viral. So, everyone has the duty to report accurately and objectively about the industry.”
Besides, Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, the Director, Research, Zenith Travels, called for continuous education of the public on the nitty-gritty of the nation’s aviation industry.
Ohunayo explained that the report of the go-around as an “incident” or “escape death,” indicated that the social media had grown stronger than the traditional medium in terms of speed and called for its control.
He emphasised that a go-around could happen if the pilot found out that the runway was not conducive enough for landing and didn’t want to take an avoidable risk, which may lead to incident or an accident.
He emphasised that safety was one of the major reason a pilot would embark on a go-around, stressing that it was not an act of incompetence, rather professionalism.
He said: “I think there is the need for the continuous education of the industry and the public in general. The report showed that the social media has grown stronger than the traditional media and before the traditional media comes out, the social media has already gone around and they caption events the way they want.
“A go-around can happen if you find out that the runway is not suitable for landing, if your calculation of touching the line of the runway is not correct and you don’t want to take a risk, then, you take a go-around.
“The most important thing about a go-around is safety; you want to ensure that you put the aircraft on ground without overshooting the runway or having an incident and this is why airlines and the industry generally approve of a go-around. It is never seen as an act of incompetence; rather, it is seen as an act of a competence by pilots who want to ensure a safe operation. It is recommended industry standards and practices. It is unfortunate that it is bad news that go viral.”
Besides, Amb. Ayoola Olukanni, Director-General of Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), one of the passengers onboard, insisted that the report was sensational and exaggerated.
He maintained that aborted landings and second approach were normal in aviation industry in such weather conditions with pouring rain.
He noted that the Pilot-In-Command (PIC) followed standard operating procedures and precautionary measures in the circumstances; on the final approach.
He said: “My phone has been ringing off the hook. All I can say is that the whole event about the flight ET 901 was simply sensationalised and exaggerated probably because former Obasanjo was on that flight. And it was not as bad as they are painting it. Aborted landings and second approach are normal in aviation in such weather conditions with pouring rain.
“The Capt simply followed standard operating procedures and precautionary measures in the circumstances; on the final approach. He pulled up smoothly and it was a steady climb; thereafter, he lined up with the runway for a second approach. And we had what in aviation circle is known as XTD (Excellent Touch Down). Former President Obasanjo and FAAN have also responded to correct the story.”
Besides, Mr. Ikechi Uko, industry analyst, said that information gathered from the airline and passengers onboard indicated that there was no declaration of emergency landing by the pilot and wondered the sensationalism behind the flight.
“…and they were surprised with the sensational headlines, but this is Nigeria and citizen journalism is trending. We don’t need specialised Journalists again. So, everyone is an expert. There was no forced landing too,” he said.
Recalled that an Ethiopian Airlines aircraft, which departed from Addis Ababa on its way to Lagos encountered bad weather during landing and made a go-around the airport for a better and smooth landing.
Firihiewot Mekonnen, General Manager, Ethiopian Airlines, Nigeria had insisted that the decision of the pilot to abort the flight when he did was in tandem with standard procedure.
She explained that on a second attempt, the pilot made a safe and normal landing, stressing that according to the safety standard, pilots were encouraged to make a similar go-around in such cases.
A search on Wikipedia by our correspondent stated that in aviation, a go-around is an aborted landing of an aircraft that is on final approach. A go-around can either be initiated by the pilot in command or requested by air traffic control for various reasons, such as an unstabilised approach or an obstruction on the runway.
The term arises from the traditional use of traffic patterns at airfields. A landing aircraft will first join the traffic pattern/circuit pattern and prepare for landing. If for some reason, the pilot decides not to land, the pilot can simply fly back up to traffic pattern altitude/circuit height, and complete another circuit.