Lagos – Super Eagles of Nigeria coach, Gernot Rohr, has told those who expected South Africa Bafana Bafana to replicate their superlative performance against Egypt in the Round of 16 of the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt that it was not possible. South Africa against all expectations beat Egypt 1-0 in Cairo and qualify for the quarter-final of the tournament where they played Nigeria on Wednesday but lost 2-1. Due to their performance against Egypt, many of their fans had expected same performance from Bafana Bafana. But Rohr in an interview on cafonline.com said that it was not possible for them to replicate same performance on the premise that it was difficult to do. “South Africa is a very good team, they had a very good game against Egypt but it’s too difficult to do this two times in a row. I salute South Africa for having a great team,” he said. According to the coach, Nigeria was lucky to score the winner in the 89th minute, attributing the luck to a strong mentality. “It was a great match. We were lucky to score in the last minute, but yet we were mentally strong to do this. What was the best today is the great spirit between both teams. Our next game is going to be more difficult, but we will be ready. Rohr, who described the game as interesting, noted that he had a game plan that worked well for the team. He noted that he brought in two fresh players, realizing that South Africa played a very tough quarter-final game. Meanwhile, Rohr could not resist criticising the VAR system on the premise that the time taken to confirm his opponents’ goal had unsettled his team. The VAR system, which was introduced at the quarterfinal stage and is being used in the competition for the first time, made its first significant intervention when it overruled a lineman’s decision to disallow Bongani Zungu’s goal for offside. “For five minutes we had to wait, goal or no goal, and that was hard for my team,” he told reporters. “The second goal did not go in for us and then you have seen this free kick, and this VAR decision – you never know what can happen with VAR on a free kick.” Rohr also praised the character of his side who came back from 2-1 down to beat Cameroon 3-2 in the previous round and grabbed a late winner in Wednesday’s match. “Now we are mentally strong and we were able to come back,” he said. “The attitude of my players was wonderful, such a good relationship with everyone.”