The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), after several failed efforts to make banks in the country to see reason to lend to the real sector with the hope of rejuvenating the economy, came out in the last two weeks with directives to make banks lend. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKECHI NZEAKO, examine the new directives and the implications on the real sector. It is no more news that Nigerian banks are reluctant lenders and this has been a source of worry to many over the years. In a bid to stem this, the CBN came out with two directives to make banks lend to the real sector two weeks ago. First, the CBN had in a letter signed by Ahmad Abdullahi, titled, “Regulatory measures to improve lending to the real sector of the Nigerian economy” said: “In order to ramp up growth of the Nigerian economy through investment in the real sector, the Central Bank of Nigeria has approved some measures. “All Deposit Money Banks are hereby required to maintain a minimum loan to deposit of 60 per cent by September 30, 2019. This ratio shall be subject to quarterly review. To encourage SMEs retail, Mortgage and consumer lending, these sectors shall be assigned a weight of 150 per cent in computing the loan to deposit for this purpose. “The CBN shall provide a frame work for classification of enterprises/businesses that fall under these categories. Failure to meet the above minimum loan to deposit ratio by the specified date shall result in a levy of additional cash reserve requirement equal to 50 per cent of the lending shortfall of the target loan to deposit ratio. The CBN shall continue to review development in the market with a view to facilitating greater investment in the real sector of the Nigerian economy. The letter is with immediate effect”. Secondly, the apex bank also in a bid to further stimulate lending to the economy said that bank deposit placement through its Standing Deposit Facility (SDF) in excess of N2 billion will not attract interest payment. This represents 73 per cent reduction from the previous limit of N7.5 billion introduced in 2014. The CBN disclosed this in a circular titled, “Re: Guidelines on Accessing the CBN Standing Deposit Facility”, signed by Director, Financial Markets Departments, Dr. Angela Sere-Ejembi. The circular also stated: “The remunerable daily placements by banks at the SDF shall not exceed N2 billion. The SDF deposit of N2 billion shall be remunerated at the interest rate prescribed by the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) from time to time. Any deposit by a bank in excess of N2 billion shall not be remunerated. The provisions of this circular take effect from Thursday July 11th 2019.” According to the apex bank, the reduction was to encourage banks to lend to the productive sectors of the economy. The development represents the second measure by the CBN, within two weeks, to unlock lending to the economy. The CBN said that the measure would ramp up growth in the Nigerian economy through adequate funding and investment in the real sector. The LDR is subject to quarterly review. Reacting, Johnson Chukwu, Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer at Cowry Assets Management, said the policy could mean that more credit would be channelled to the private sector if religiously implemented. However, he is of the opinion that the policy could compel banks to give loans to sub-prime creditors. “The banks could be compelled to give out loans to subprime borrowers that could lead to the incidence of non-performing loans. Banks also have to make this adjustment within a period that is less than two months then you can imagine the volume of work that banks have to do. “What can be done is to moderate the target or extend the timeline otherwise we will see banks book a lot of credit that will not be able to come back because high cost of credit is one of the contributing factors to credit default. “If you ask me, some banks might rather have their money in the cash reserve and take their time to look for creditworthy customers to lend to. “If we can avoid the risk of loan failure, we should see an enhanced level of economic activity, a high level of productivity as a result of credit availability. “Availability of credit facilities will stimulate economic activity; lead to job creation and a positive impact on the GDP.” Fitch, a credit rating agency headquartered in New York, also shares this thought. In a statement released on Thursday, the agency said achieving the new requirement “in such a short timescale will be very difficult for some banks given their lending levels, particularly if customer deposits continue to grow at present rates”. “It is unlikely that there is sufficient demand from good-quality borrowers for banks to meet the target without relaxing their underwriting or pricing standards. Banks continue to struggle with high impaired and other problem loans “The present operating conditions are not conducive to loan growth, and rapid lending during the fragile economic recovery could increase asset-quality problems in the future. Chasing loan growth could also weaken banks’ profitability if they cut margins to attract customers.” Ronak Ghadia, Director of Sub-Saharan African Banks, EFG Hermes Research, said that the regulation could be damaging for the banking industry as it would encourage banks to take risks in a volatile macro-economic environment, which could result in increased Non-Performing Loan (NPL) formation. He posited that the banks may try to lower some of their prudential risk management measures, especially when lending to the consumer, SME and the retail segment and that could result in higher than expected NPL formation. Also, according to him, in order to comply with the regulation, banks may try to reduce their deposit base, which would negatively affect the financial inclusion rate of the country. Ghadia stated: “Normally banking sector regulators introduce maximum LDR thresholds to limit risk taking by banks. Conversely, in Nigeria, introduction of a minimum LDR by the CBN encourages banks to undertake more risk at a time when the macro-environment remains fragile at best. Moreover, the regulation encourages banks to lend to sectors that they have historically been uncomfortable lending to. I think there is a risk that the new regulation could lead to banks underwriting high-risk loans which could lead to further asset quality deterioration and destabilisation of the industry, at a time when the regulator has limited scope for further bail-outs. “Introduction of a minimum LDR threshold is likely to result in banks substituting deposit funding for other forms of funding such as Eurobonds and local corporate bonds among others, enabling them to artificially satisfy the regulatory requirement. That is, rather than grow the numerator; banks will reduce the denominator for the LDR calculation.” He further noted that the impact of the introduction of minimum LDR is unlikely to have a significant impact on tier 1 banks (except perhaps UBA), as they would be able to meet the threshold by either moderately increasing their loan book and/ or substituting deposits (which would reduce the financial inclusion rate) for other funding sources. Also, speaking, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, Managing Director/ CEO, Cowry Asset Management, said that in as much as banks may try to comply with the directive, they may decide to explore the next available window, which is depositing additional reserve (Cash Reserve Ratio) with the apex bank as levy for non-compliance, which is also safer for them. He stated: “In the absence of viable lending opportunity, the banks would rather, in the interim, allow the Central Bank to sterilise deposit while they seek out good lending opportunity. In a bid to comply, the banks may try to loosen some of their credit requirements, but that also can lead to increase in NPL level. “I think there will be a time lag during which period the CBN will allow the banks to identify good credit and lend.” Banks in the country are reluctant lenders in an economy struggling to rebound from a 2016 contraction, double-digit inflation and non-performing loan ratios double the regulator’s target. Besides, with near risk-free government bonds offering yields of more than 14 per cent, there is little incentive to lend — and that might just be what the regulator targets next. But it would come with risks, said Segun Akinwale, a banking analyst at Asset & Resource Management Company in Lagos. “Limiting banks from investing in bonds could create excess liquidity that will make it harder for policymakers to rein-in inflation and stabilise the local currency”, he said. It’s also a much stiffer penalty than measures introduced this month aimed at forcing banks to use their capital to lend. The regulator said it will cut the amount of money companies can keep in interest-bearing accounts at the central bank by 73 per cent per cent. That came less a week after it said lenders should use at least 60 per cent of their deposits for loans by the end of September, where some banks are estimated to be sitting as low as 40 per cent, or hand it over to the central bank and earn nothing on it. “The state of the economy and the short-term period given to the banks to comply make the rules appear negative for the banks,” Akinwale said. Banks were warned. Godwin Emefiele, the CBN Governor in May signaled he is ready to choke off access to Treasury bills in a rebuke to lenders for not taking advantage of a programme that allowed banks to use their statutory cash reserves to fund manufacturers. It was tied to the condition that loans were well-below the central bank’s benchmark rate and had a minimum maturity of seven years. The central bank may not have given adequate consideration to the economy, which is creating low appetite for risk among banks and hindering their profit growth. The economy is projected to expand 2.1 per cent by the International Monetary Fund, which is slower than the nation’s population growth. “It’s not clear how it intends to achieve the objective given internal risk frameworks of most banks” and their refusal to increase lending to riskier borrowers, said Kunle Ezun, a Lagos-based analyst at Ecobank Transnational Inc. “It is a carrot in the sense of moral suasion” and “a stick because it comes with a sanction that could impact the bank liquidity”, Ezun said. A gauge of the country’s 10 biggest lenders declined by 0.1 per cent to extend losses this year to 12 per cent, compared with a 9 per cent drop in the country’s benchmark index. A total of seven leading deposit money banks, DMBs, may now be under pressure to beef up their loan portfolio following a recent directive by the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, which requires banks to give out 60 percent of their deposits as loans to the real sector. The banks include, Guaranty Trust Bank, GTB Plc, First Bank of Nigeria, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated, Stanbic IBTC Holdings, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, United Bank for Africa Plc and Zenith Bank Plc. Financial analysts said more smaller banks would also be affected, adding that the pressures may force the banks to sidetrack the policy and opt to stay with the penalty for non-compliance. Impact of limitation of banks’ access to government securities depends on CBN mechanisms. Going by the new policy, these banks would be compelled to shore up their loan position with as much as N1.7 trillion, representing the Loan-to-Deposit, LDR, shortfall recorded by the banks as at the end of first quarter 2019 (Q1’19). This figure would go up if the banks’ deposits continue the uptrend recorded in the Q1’19 reports. The execution of the policy, on the other hand, may also mean a forceful lock-up of half of this amount (N844 billion) by CBN should they fail to create the new loans by September 30, 2019. Analysis of the Q1’19 financial results of the affected banks showed that they recorded 51.6 percent LDR, representing 8.4 percent shortfall of the LDR target. Breakdown showed that the banks’ deposit stood at N20.12 trillion as at the period under review, but they disbursed N10.4 trillion loans to the customers. Under the new policy they would be required to disburse N12.1trillion loans. However, the overflow recorded by the remaining five out of 12 banks covered by this report effectively moderated the huge gap the seven banks recorded, thereby bringing down the cumulative shortfall to N646 billion. Some banks, Fidelity Bank Plc, Access Bank Plc, Sterling Bank Plc, FCMB Group Plc and Wema Bank Plc, which aggressively pursued loan creation, overshot their expected target under the new policy by N1.33 trillion, having given out N5.5 trillion from N7.0 trillion deposits they recorded during the period. The apex bank, in the Circular to the banks, explained that Small and Medium Enterprises, SMEs, retail, mortgage and consumer lending, would be assigned a weight of 150 per cent in computing the LDR in order to encourage them. It noted that failure to meet the above minimum LDR by the specified date would result in a levy of additional Cash Reserve Requirement equal to 50 per cent of the lending shortfall on the target LDR. Analysts believe that the regulation is the apex bank’s way of curtailing investment in government securities by the banks. Over time, banks have shied away from lending to the real sector, preferring, instead, to invest in government securities due to the high yield environment. Moreover, the banks considered lending to the CBN’s preferred sectors to be more risky even when the interest income is clearly higher than the yields on government securities. Recall that at the last Monetary Policy Meeting (MPC) meeting, the CBN indicated that it is exploring ways of limiting banks’ investments in government securities in order to accelerate private sector lending. But some financial sector operators that spoke to Financial Vanguard said the banks may choose to deposit additional reserve with the apex bank rather than undertake more risk of lending to the high risk real sector of the economy. T he Managing Director, Access Bank, Mr, Herbert Wigwe, has welcomed the central bank’s decision to introduce penalties in a bid to stimulate lending, particularly to the country’s small and medium-sized businesses. He said the decision will go a long way to make banks that are reluctant to sit tight and do banking. “If we don’t have that kind of thing as sanction coming from the central bank, what you will find is that most banks will not do it. The initiative from the central bank can only help stimulate growth”, he said. Accordingly, Banks in the country are reluctant to extend credit as the economy struggles to rebound from a 2016 contraction, double-digit inflation and non-performing loan ratios that are double the regulator’s target. The central bank said it will cut the amount of money lenders can keep in its interest-bearing accounts by 73 per cent to N2 billion. Commending the directive, Segun Ajayi Kadiri, Director General of the Manufacturer of Association of Nigerian (MAN), says it solves the first half of the problem. “We welcome the recent directive given by the CBN to banks; it is a step in the right direction. This will mean that manufacturers can get loans and that will boost business and in turn, stimulate the economy. “However, this just resolves the first half of the problem even though we all know that access to finance is a major problem for manufacturers. “The other half is at what rate? At the moment, the monetary policy rate is double-digit but it is not healthy for manufacturers to lend at double-digit interest rate especially for the SMEs. “What we recommend is loans at 5 per cent, the maximum interest rate should be 9 per cent.” In 2018, the Bankers Committee of the CBN agreed that banks could give loans to the real sector at 9 per cent interest rate. The committee agreed that the loans would be sourced from the cash reserve ratio of banks. Kadiri, however, said he had no idea that banks had such provision for manufacturers. “Not only am I not aware of such provision, but I would also have known if anyone got loans at such rate.” Mr. Muda Yusuf, the Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), said that the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) current lending policy, will normalise the credit markets, spur economic growth and broaden the interface between entrepreneurs and the banking industry. Yusuf said the new lending policy was a timely corrective measure to improve credits to the private sector, which had for years grappled with issues of credit access, cost of credit and tenure of funds. “These challenges are more severe for micro, small and medium enterprises in the economy. The economy was characterised by profound crowding effect of the private sector in the financial markets owing to the diversion of credit to government through the instrumentalities of treasury bills and Federal Government bonds,” he said. The LCCI Director General, expressed optimism that the new lending policy would impact the economy through quality financial intermediation while bridging the funding gaps in many sectors. He said it would improve economic inclusion of more SMEs and promote economic diversification in line with the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). Yusuf noted that the policy had the probability of reducing interest rate as supply of credit would increase and improve lending creativity and innovation by banks. “This will result into a broader and more diversified sectoral coverage of lending,” he said. The economist urged the CBN and the fiscal authorities to adopt measures toward addressing some possible risks in the lending policy. He proposed the strengthening of the Collateral Registry to enhance the profiling of borrowers in the banking system, adding that the character of borrower had been identified as a major risk factor to lending in the economy. Yusuf called for scaling up corporate governance practices in the banking system to prevent insider abuse and compromise of credit assessment processes. He submitted that credit guarantee framework should be strengthened to give comfort to the banks and also promotion of the use of credit insurance. Yusuf urged the fiscal authorities to effectively address enabling business environment issues, particularly infrastructure deficit and quality, in order to reduce credit risk. Yusuf, however, asked the CBN to ensure alignment of the new policy with extant monetary policy actions, especially with regards to Cash Reserve Ratio and the Liquidity Ratio which are currently at 22.5 per cent and 30 per cent respectively.