Steph McGovern revealed how pregnancy is going during a candid chat with her BBC Breakfast colleagues on Monday morning.
After confirming she is expecting her first child with her girlfriend on Twitter on Sunday, the popular presenter, 37, was congratulated live on air during the paper review, before revealing that it’s been tricky to keep her exciting news secret.
Confirming she’s due in November, Steph admitted she almost threw up on her co-presenter Charlie Stayt during a bad bout of morning sickness early on in her pregnancy. As Charlie congratulated Steph, she admitted receiving messages from fans ‘was quite overwhelming yesterday.’ Referring to an incident last year that saw fans mistakenly congratulate her on a pregnancy, Steph added: ‘Last year I was like ‘I’m not [pregnant] with child, I’m with pot belly as that’s what I was with but now I am actually growing a human.
Asked how she was feeling, the presenter admitted she had had ‘ a rough start’ to her pregnancy, quipping: ‘Charlie nearly got watermelon over him one morning.’ BBC’s Sally Nugent offered to lend a helping hand, after previously being co-star Victoria Fritz’s birthing partner during a dramatic delivery in 2016. ‘Steph, I’ll be your midwife,’ offered her pal.
Steph confirmed her pregnancy on Twitter on Sunday after The Sun reported that the couple are ‘thrilled’ to be starting a family.
A source close to Steph told the publication: ‘Steph and her girlfriend are absolutely thrilled. Everyone at the Beeb is delighted too — she is one of the most popular faces on and off the red sofa.’
However the insider insisted that the presenter’s pregnancy will be kept private and they doubt there will be ‘any magazine shoots any time soon’. The BBC Breakfast host’s pregnancy comes a year after fans mistakenly thought she was expecting and congratulated her on Twitter.
Steph had a hilarious response for viewers who congratulating her on the supposed ‘pregnancy’, and described the confusion as ‘just life on camera.’
The Breakfast presenter and leading financial journalist took to Twitter at the time to squash the rumours. She quipped: ‘I am not with child, I am with pot belly.’ Speaking to MailOnline in 2018, she said: ‘I’d definitely be in the wrong job if I got offended by comments like that. Even my own auntie asked me once if I was pregnant after seeing me on the telly – that’s just life on camera.’
‘I just decided to tweet a reply about it because I’d had a run of a few celebratory tweets and I wanted to clarify I wasn’t and get in there before my boss started arranging my maternity cover!’
The presenter added, making a more serious point: ‘What’s been interesting though is all the messages I’ve had, showing you how many women it happens to on a daily basis. ‘It’s a pot belly, not a baby. Although, I’m thinking about naming mine now after all the attention it’s getting.’
Steph, whose girlfriend is a TV Executive, is currently filming Easy Ways To Live Well, alongside Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall.
The new BBC One series focuses on helping viewers live a healthier life and improving people’s diets, fitness and health.
The broadcaster is also set to star in the new series of Shop Well For Less with Alex Jones, with filming scheduled to start soon. 