P/HARCOURT – The Rivers State Governorship Election Tribunal on Tuesday dismissed the petition filed by Mr Clifford Edanuko, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Progressive Party (PPP), against the election of Governor Nyesom Wike. Ruling on a motion filed by the Rivers State governorship candidate of PPP, the tribunal  chairman, Justice J.A. Orjiako, confirmed Wike  as the duly re-elected governor of the state in the March 2019 election. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Justice Orjiako also agreed with counsel to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Abdulhakeem Mustapha (SAN), counsel to Governor Wike, Chief Okey Wali (SAN), and counsel to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ken Njamanze (SAN) that there were no illegal terms of withdrawal. The tribunal ruled that Petition Number EPT/RS/GOV/O5/2015 stood dismissed, following  the motion on notice filed by the petitioner on July 23, 2019 for the discontinuation of the matter. Moving the motion for discontinuance, counsel to the petitioner, E. Paul MasiChi, said he had instruction of the petitioner to withdraw the petition. In an affidavit filed before the Tribunal, he said that the petitioner withdrew the petition so that governance will flow without any distraction in Rivers State. “We are all Rivers people.  The petitioner is a Rivers man. He has looked at it and said let’s give peace a chance.  The peace we are enjoying in Rivers State today is what everyone is happy about.  It will not serve the interest of the state to continue this legal tussle.” Chief Okey Wali (SAN), Wike’s caounsel, said it was gracious of the petitioner to withdraw the petition because his political party (PPP) is interested in the political stability of Rivers State. In an interview, counsel to INEC, Abdulhakeem Mustapha (SAN), said that all parties  were in court to adopt their written addresses, when the petitioner announced his withdrawal of the petition, adding that INEC did not oppose  the withdrawal because it was in line with its submission to the tribunal. He said that the tribunal was right to have dismissed the petition. Counsel to the PDP, Ken Njamanze (SAN), said he believed that wise counsel prevailed, hence the petitioner resolved to withdraw the petition. The PDP had asked the tribunal to nullify the Rivers State governorship election on the allegation that it was unlawfully excluded from the poll by INEC. With the dismissal of the PPP petition, only the petition filed by Mr Victor Fingesi of ADP was yet to be determined by the tribunal. It would be recalled that INEC declared Wike re-elected after he polled 886,264 votes, while his closest  challenger of African Alliance Congress (AAC), Biokpomabo Awara, scored 173,859 votes.