Lagos – The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has been told to be proactive and innovative towards airspace regulation in order to effectively secure the industry.
This was one of the resolutions reached at the end of the one day 2nd Quarterly Business Breakfast Meeting (BBM) held by the Aviation Safety Round Table Initiative (ASRTI), in Lagos at the weekend.
Dr. Gabriel Olowo, President, ASRTI, in a communiqué signed at the end of the meeting, warned that weakness or failure of a regulatory body leads to many incidents, stressing that accumulation of such ultimately leads to air accidents in the sector.
The communiqué further told the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) to develop two different charts; Global Positioning System (GPS) equipped aircraft and the non-GPS equipped aircraft to further boost safety in the system.
The participants noted that only a few of the local airlines had GPS equipped aircraft, insisting that this would further enhance safety in the country’s airspace.
The communiqué also called on NCAA to like other regulators around the world, develop and publish the mandates for these services.
It further charged the regulatory agency to live up to its constitutional mandate and responsibilities as regards oversight and regulatory activities related to Nigeria’s airspace management.
The communiqué emphasised that efforts should be made by NAMA to avoid the use of unlicensed Air Traffic Engineers and Air Traffic Controllers working independently without the appropriate supervision of licensed Engineer/Controller, noting that the supervision must be at all times even after the On-the-Job Training (OJT).
The communiqué added: “There is a desperate and urgent need for NAMA to accelerate efforts towards ensuring that its communications infrastructure challenges are resolved rapidly in addition to establishing Air traffic Control Centres (ACC) in Abuja and Port Harcourt so that pilots flying within the Nigerian airspace do not fly blind spots as this is very unsafe.
“ASRTI should ensure and facilitate the signing of Service Level Agreements (SLAs) between airlines and NAMA and between airlines and various government owned service providers to ensure that expected Service Level Standards (SLSs) are met and this will help to enhance aviation safety.”
Participants at the meeting also called on aircraft operators to promptly inform both NCAA and the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) about their records of incidents and serious incidents as part of efforts to prevent actual accidents, while also calling on the regulatory body to always share any operational occurrence from the operator with AIB.
Besides, the communiqué charged that NCAA should implement all the safety recommendations issued by AIB to advance the safety of Nigerian airspace.
11. Considering the volume of CNS/ATM facilities and services that NAMA is expected to manage and provide, there is a need to create a fund for aviation development, out of which NAMA’s infrastructure and human capital needs can be met.
“To ensure regular availability of electricity power without which airspace management cannot be effective, NAMA should include private sector initiative and collaboration such as Independent Power Project (IPP) in its proposals to government.