Sir Joe Ari is the Chairman of Forum of All Progressives Congress stakeholders of Mikang, Shendam and Qua’anpan Local government Areas of Plateau State. In this Interview with ONOJA AUDU, he said Governor Simon Lalong will constitute his second term cabinet with better hands that will join him to deliver dividends of Democracy to Plateau people. Excerpts: What is your rating of Governor Simon Lalong first term in Office and your advice to him as he begins his second term rescue administration next level on the Plateau? Ans Governor Lalong giant strides on the Plateau in the last four years made it easier for our forum to go all out in campaigning for his return and gave hope to the people of our zone and the generality of the people of the state who repaid his stellar performances by overwhelmingly voting for him as the governorship candidate of our party in the just concluded governorship polls on the Plateau. As Governor Lalong commences his second term in office on the Plateau, our prayer for him is for God Almighty to grant him the strength of the Biblical Samson and the wisdom of King Solomon so that the next four(4) years of his administration will witness unprecedented developmental strides in Plateau state and the actualization of his vision as captured in his Democracy day address to the people of Plateau state. What are your expectations from Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau state as the new Chairman of Northern Governors Forum? The Governor of Plateau state Rt. Hon Simon Lalong has been a worthy son of Plateau state and worthy son of Nigeria and for me as a Plateau citizen, it is very heartwarming to know that our Governor is now the Chairman of Northern Governors Forum at this time that the North is having security challenges to grapple with . Governor Lalong as a Chairman of Northern Governors Forum means that he is the leader of the body of the first citizens of the 19 Northern states at this auspicious time and going by his pedigree, he is someone that build bridges, a peace maker and a leader of note and you would have seen that anywhere he goes, he makes peace as a bridge builder. When his party APC had a challenge of electing new leadership of the party that brought the current National Chairman of the Party, Adams Oshiomhole to power , the Ondo Governorship election, he went in there and delivered the state to APC and you know whenever the Federal government has an issue that needs strengthening, you find out that he is there and makes the matter comes easy and that only goes to show one thing that he is a Man of Wisdom and a man that carries his people along and I have doubt in my mind that with unanimity that the Northern Governors came together to give him this mantle of leadership will be justified by the time his legacies are being written in that forum . As someone that is close to Governor Lalong and a Goemai kinsman, what do you think is responsible for the delay in the appointment of his political aides and constituting of his cabinet for almost two months after his second term inauguration?. The facts must be made that Plateau state is a unit of its own and you know that Governor Lalong was a former Speaker of the state House of Assembly and also a lawyer by profession and that that he is heading the executive arm of government in the state. He has seen it all and what he is intending to do based on my personal discussion with him, he wants to take his time , get people that understands his next level agenda in terms of his Manifesto blue print he unfolded to the people of state on June 12th . He is now not looking for Politicians only that will come into his cabinet and be talking politics, but people that will be part of new Lalong administration in the state with records of performance and those that can help his administration in delivering dividends of democracy to the people of the state. This period is a period of performance, a period of bequeathing enduring legacy and you can only do that with the quality of the people you bring on board in your administration to work with you.