A major fall-out of the on-going killings, banditry and kidnappings across the country, is the call by the Nigerian Senate last Tuesday for the immediate convocation of a National Security Summit to address insecurity in the country. The Senate’s call followed a Point of Order raised by Senator Ayo Akinyelure (APC-Ondo), over the killing of Mrs. Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Pa Reuben Fasoranti, a leader of the Afenifere Group, who was shot dead along the Akure-Ore Road, in Ondo State by gunmen believed to be Fulani herdsmen. Akinyelure expressed concern over the killing and similar ones, which he described as “increasing and incessant murder of innocent Nigerians by gunmen along major highways in the country.” He also warned that, if immediate actions were not taken, the development might lead to ethno-religious crises, especially in the Southern part of the country. While urging the Senate to observe a minute silence in memory of the deceased and others who died in similar circumstances, he said attention of the Federal Government should be drawn to the situation. Also, Sen. Tolu Odebiyi, (APC-Ogun), called on the Senate to sit with the Presidency and security formations in a meeting to take an immediate action. “We have to demand action by security forces and the presidency. There’s nothing we do here that is safe if we don’t get our security right. We can’t be coming here everyday, mourning and observing one-minute silence when Nigerians are being killed. “As a Senate, we should send a delegation to meet with the presidency and the security forces to address what is happening.” However, the Deputy Minority Leader of the Senate, Sen. Ajayi Boroface (APC-Ondo), urged his colleagues to be cautious about linking a particular tribe as perpetrators of the attacks. “We should approach this matter maturely and encourage the federal government to improve on the state of security. “We should not link a particular tribe with the killings, as being observed in the social media. Yoruba, Igbo, Hausa, Fulani people have all been killed,” he said. The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, in his submission, equally lamented the situation, which he said was being felt across the country. He, therefore, said stakeholders should immediately converge in a robust national security summit to discuss and address the situation. “In new letter to Buhari: Obasanjo warns of Rwanda-like genocide, urges national confab. “The security situation is all over the country. It is very unfortunate just like all our colleagues have said in their contributions. “We should have one national security summit on this. The summit should be all-encompassing and all-inclusive, involving other arms of government and various security formations,” Lawan said. The question is: Should the FG convene a national conference to discuss the solution to the insecurity crisis rocking the country? There Is No Need To Convoke Summit On Security – Social Critic Dapo Olorundare Adenle, a social critic, has expressed resentment at the argument that the Federal Government should convene a national security summit to discuss the solution to the insecurity crisis rocking the country, saying that attitudinal responses and behaviour of Nigerians to dialogue in the past had been negative without good results. Adenle noted that past experiences of Nigerians had not been encouraging and that such conferences had served as conduit pipe to drain the nation’s resources. He said the selection of members to such conference would pose a problem, which might result to insults and wastage. According to him, “the last conference held in 2014 was inaugurated as diversionary moves, also recommendations as well as reports of the conference were not implemented, not to talk of reviewing them. Aside this, the Federal Government lacked the political will to implement its recommendations and thereafter jettisoned. “So, if another conference is put in place now, it will not solve the problems at hand but heightened tension in the land. “The best solution to the current challenges is for the government at the centre to act devoid of sentiment and do things aright. It was sentiment that had accompanied issues that worsen the situation. “The spate of insecurity should not be a thing of surprise to reasonable Nigerians because once you dislodged Boko Haram and bandits from their areas of operations, you should realised that their remnant would move to other places to act. “The government only needed to be upright and take the bull by horn and ensure that all criminal activities are exterminated once and for all. “We don’t need national conference to discuss issues like security. The people affected by the action of these bandits have right under the law to defend themselves by forming vigilante teams to expose and deal with the situation.” Convening National Conference Will Not Achieve Any Purpose – Ex-Lawmaker Chris Agbonmwanegbe, a lawyer and former member of the defunct Bendel State House of Assembly in the Second Republic, said: “The insecurity crisis rocking the nation is caused by the weakness of the President. You can imagine the head of the President’s community in Daura was kidnapped by bandits and was held for 93 days. The president did not make any statement and only God knows what happened before he was eventually released. “Presently, the country has a very weak leader, maybe due to his old age. The situation will remain like this in the next four years because I don’t see him taking any drastic action that would solve the problem. “Convening a national conference will not still solve the present problem because the President will not implement the recommendations no matter how good the report may be. “I was a member of the last national conference conveyed by the Goodluck Jonathan administration and solution to what is happening now in country are all contained in that report and some well-meaning Nigerians have been urging the President to look at it and implement the areas that could assist him in solving some of the problems that are facing the nation but he ignored all the calls. “All I will say for now is that the opposition party is still pursuing the election case at the court and it could go either way but if we find ourselves remaining in this situation in the next four years, we have to leave our fate in the hands of God” National Conference Can Provide Solution To Insecurity – Politician Chief Emetuche Nwafor Njoku, a former Councilor and member of the Nigeria Democratic Congress Party (NDCP), in Isu LGA, Imo State, stated: “The answer to this question is as clear as a morning star. A national conference backed by sincere and honest submissions; devoid of tribal, political and religious sentiments by the participants will birth a lasting solution to our nation’s insecurity. “But, the question is: Can we discard this cancer that has eaten deep into our psyche? Let the FG hurry up and organise a national conference and I pray that God will answer our prayers,” he added.