Nnewi – An Anambra State High Court sitting at Neni, Anaocha Local Government of the state has dismissed a claim by the registered trustees of Onitsha Beer Dealers’ Association over a portion of land popularly known as Nwugo Park Or Lagos Park at Upper Iweka in Onitsha.
The declaration is coming after over 18 years of legal tussle between two parties to dispute.
In a judgment delivered in an action brought against the Attorney-General of Anambra State and Ugochukwu &Sons Limited, Justice G. C. Anulude noted that the court recognized and upheld the original Certificate of Occupancy, C of O issued to Ugochukwu & Sons Limited in 1978 by the then military government of old Anambra State, as the authentic and bona fide title holder in respect of the area of land measuring 5.388 known as Nwugo Park.
The judgment, which brought to an end the proceedings that spanned over 18 years, Justice Anulude also awarded N50,000s cost against the plaintiff (Registered Trustees of Beer dealers Association) in favour of the second defendant (Ugochukwu & Sons Limited).
The plaintiff had dragged the Attorney-General of Anambra State to court in 2001 as first defendant in suit No. 0/581/2001 and joined Ugochukwu & Sons Limited as second defendant in 2006 by order of the court, claiming the ownership of the large expanse of land in question (Nwugo Park).
In their statement of claim, the plaintiff averred that they (trustees of the beer dealers association) entered into a pre-incorporation contract with a company known as CSJ Nigeria Limited for the lease of the land.
The plaintiff further averred that the pre-incorporation name utilized by some of their members then was Ochanja Beer Dealers, adding that it was in that capacity, through their representatives that they executed the said indenture and proceeded to pay a huge premium for the land, after their investigation revealed that the land formed part of a large expanse measuring 5.388 hectares, which was originally granted the second defendant by the then military governor of Old Anambra State, John Atom Kpera, on May 13, 1978, by virtue of a statute C of O registered as No.. 41 at Page 41 in Volume 1016 in the land office at Enugu, now Awka.