Barrister Roland Oweilaemi Pereotubo is the President, Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide and the President General, All Ethnic Nationalities in Niger Delta. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on President Muhammadu Buhari’s new ministers, among other crucial issues. Excerpts: How do you see President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term ministers just screened by the Senate? Do they worth the long delay? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network We should not pass judgment on the ministers yet. Most of them are former governors. I think we have many intellectuals among them. Let us separate individual characters from their administrative competence. Some of them may be having corruption cases tied on their neck; that is a different ball game. It has nothing to with their performance indexes. What I expect Nigerians to say is to call on the cabals at the corridor of power to give the ministers unfettered hands to operate. So many things are happening in government circle. You may be an intellectual who has the wherewithal to break even in the ministry assigned to you, but when government interlopers meddle with your functions, I don’t see such a person succeeding. However, for the ministers to succeed, I advise President Buhari not to give them more roles than they can handle. No minister should be given more than one ministry, especially those sensitive ministries. Would you say that these ministers would be able to prosecute President Buhari’s ‘Next Level’ agenda, which he campaigned with? With what I have said earlier, I think they can prosecute his agenda to a successful end. Let me reiterate my earlier stand again. Unless Mr. President and his power players allow the ministers to bring their knowledge and expertise to bear, we should not expect any success story from them. Many factors make a man fail in his endeavour. If an appointee’s functions are being usurped by some meddlesome interlopers in the power circle, performance becomes a big challenge to the government. Considering the massive violent protests by the Shi’ites, would you say the Federal Government is right by continuing to detain El-Zackzacky? This government has penchant for disobeying court judgments. You can see the former Attorney General, Abubakar Malami’s disdainful explanation of why the government under his watch as the AGF was flouting court orders with impunity. The former AGF said they disobeyed court orders because of national interest. What a dictatorial impudence? Where in our constitution does national interest becomes superior to the rule of law? The Asari-Dokubo’s Supreme Court judgment the government is ignorantly relying on, was a product of judicial interpretation and not an executive whims and caprices. If the government feels that some people who are detained on political grounds do not deserve to be set free despite court verdicts, it ought to appeal against those judgments so that they can save the country from the international embarrassment. The government has no justification in holding El-Zakzaky incommunicado in defiance to the subsisting court orders directing for his release. Appealing against subsisting court judgment does not operate as a stay of execution as ignorantly expressed by Mr. Femi Adesina, the presidential spokesman. That is the worst case scenario of a dictatorial government. The Supreme Court in the case of Governor of Lagos State vs Odumegwu Ojukwu said the rule of law is superior to national security. The apex court said in the instant case that the absence of rule of law is anarchy. In the same vein, Prof. Nicki Tobi (JSC as he then was) of blessed memory said in the case of Onagoruwa vs the State that the foundation of democracy is anchored on the rule of law. When the rule of law is being consigned in the dustbin of the self-glorifying national security, what do you think will happen? As much as I condemned the Shi’ites people’s violent protests, the government shared the bigger part of the blame. Buhari and his advisors are inviting anarchy to the land. I am afraid the government is breeding another Boko Haram sect. The recent proscription of the group as a terrorist organisation will not still solve the problem. That decision may rather aggravate the issue. Both Boko Haram and bandits have been decimating Nigerians, including top military and police officers. Don’t you think the time has come for President Muhammadu Buhari to rejig the nation’s Security Chiefs or apparatus as Nigerians have been advocating? You don’t need to ask this question. Even Buhari is aware that the Service Chiefs he appointed are becoming redundant to confront our hydra-headed security problems. They have run out of ideas. The best way to address the general insecurity across the country is to first, rejig the security architecture. We need new hands to handle the country’s security situation. I think that Mr. President is just playing over the worsening security problem in the country. I don’t know why he kept on extending their years in service, instead of appointing new persons. Are you worried over the emerging revelation that the Fulani vigilante groups now mount roadblocks along major roads in South West, especially in Ondo State? That is very dangerous to the country. It looks like arming your enemy to guard you. You know what that means? Honestly, I don’t think that using Fulani militia men to guard our communities will bring peace to us. Such will be a breeding ground for them to commit genocide as they did in Agatu once the communities disagree with them. For us in the Niger Delta, we have echoed our position to the world. We don’t need foreigners to guard our lands. If it appears that the federal government is unable to secure the land, then we will set up our vigilante groups to protect our lands. We cannot with open eyes invite termites into our house. The Federal Government recently suspended its Ruga policy, instead of total cancellation. What do you think about the development? The suspension of the vexatious Ruga settlement scheme is a commendable gesture. The Ruga policy would have torn Nigeria apart. Buhari only averted an imminent national tragedy. Those of us from the southern part of the country are calling for its outright ban. The best thing the federal government should do is to perish the thought. It should not be suspended, but banned outrightly. That is what we want. I commend the position taken by the Kano State governor, His Excellency, Alhaji Abdullahi Ganduje, for saying the truth. He said for peace to reign, the government should stop movement of herdsmen to southern communities that do not accommodate them. That is the simple truth. Ruga is a private business venture of some few individuals as rightly said by the governor. The FG cannot impose it on unwilling Nigerians. That is where the problem would come had it been implemented. Do you think the House of Representatives was right in issuing orders to Governor Godwin Obaseki to re-proclaim the Edo State House of Assembly? Would you say that the Reps were playing a script written by Adams Oshiomhole’s, the APC National Chairman, in ordering shutdown of the State Assembly? Your guess is as good as mine, if you say Oshiomhole is behind the House of Representatives’ unconstitutional demands. The House of Representatives has no constitutional power to order the governor of Edo State to issue proclamation again. From where do they derive their power? No governor under our constitution is subservient to the National Assembly. As for taking over of the Edo State House of Assembly, I don’t think the circumstance has gotten to the level for the National Assembly to exercise its power of taking over. The constitution is clear on when the NASS can exercise its power. The House of Assembly is sitting to transact its lawful businesses. It’s only when the latter cannot sit that the former’s intervention becomes necessary. I think that the governor has constitutionally discharged the power conferred on him by the constitution. He cannot reissue the proclamation. There is no constitutional provision to exercise such function.