Roger Federer says the “stars are aligned” after beating rival Rafael Nadal to reach the Wimbledon final.
The Swiss, chasing a ninth Wimbledon crown and 21st Grand Slam title, will face world number one Novak Djokovic after a 7-6 (7-3) 1-6 6-3 6-4 win.
He said his performance against Nadal in a match that “lived up to the hype” gave him confidence for the final.
“This is like a school: the day of the test you’re not going to read many books that day,” the 37-year-old said.
“I don’t think there’s much I need to do in terms of practice.
“It’s quite clear the work was done way before. I think that’s why I was able to produce a good result today. It’s been a rock solid year of mine, I won in Halle [for a record 10th time last month], the stars are aligned right now.
“From that standpoint I can go into that match very confident.”
Federer and Nadal produce three thrilling points in gripping semi-final
Federer, who turns 38 in less than four weeks’ time, will become the oldest finalist here since Ken Rosewall in 1974.
While his years on the clock have not stopped him reaching a record-extending 12th Wimbledon men’s singles final, they are keeping his celebrations in check after his victory over Nadal.
“Age kicks in. I know it’s not over yet,” said the Swiss, who is now into his fifth final at the All England Club since turning 30.
“There’s no point to start partying tonight or get too emotional, too happy about it, even though I am extremely happy.
“I think I can with experience really separate the two. If it was the end of the tournament, it would be very different right now. I’d be speaking very different, feeling very different. There is, unfortunately or fortunately, one more.”
He said Friday’s victory over Nadal, which was their first meeting at the grass-court Grand Slam since their epic 2008 final which the Spaniard won, would go down as one of his favourites to look back on.
“It lived up to the hype, especially from coming out of the gates, we were both playing very well,” he said. “Then the climax at the end with the crazy last game, some tough rallies there.
“It had everything at the end, which was great. I’m just relieved it’s all over at this point.”