Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, in commemoration of his first month in office, fielded questions from journalists on what to expect in the first 100 days of his administration and the long term plans of his government for the people of the state. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: You made history last week with the appointment of Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun as the first female Secretary to the State Government in Oyo State, but some people have been criticising that step, noting that you should have appointed a politician. What were the considerations that made you go for a technocrat? Mrs. Adeosun, from her CV, you probably would have been able to see that she is eminently qualified to hold that position. Also, I made a promise to the people of Oyo State during electioneering that we would balance the positions in our administration along the lines of gender, religion and other considerations. We promised that we would not leave anyone behind. If you look at the four major posts in the executive branch, you have the Governor who is a Christian and a male, the Deputy Governor is a Muslim and a male, the Chief of Staff is a Muslim and a male, so if you look at that equation, what we were looking at in appointing the SSG, which is like third most important position in the executive arm, was gender balance. We want to ensure that we adhere to the Policy of Affirmative Action on the percentage of representation for women. So, we went for Mrs. Adeosun, who is a Christian. Out of those four positions, we have two Muslims and two Christians and almost all the zones were represented. If there is one decision that your government has taken, which has won you accolades from far and near, it is the decision to pay workers’ salary as at when due. One would like to know what magic you performed to make that possible, because the narrative from the past government is that there is no money in government’s treasury. What happened that made it possible for you to pay salaries as and when due? First, when you have worked and toiled for 30 days, you deserve your wages. Nobody is doing the workers any favour by paying their salaries, because they have worked and you need to pay them. When we came in, I was sworn in on the 29th of May and as far as I was concerned, the May salary was already past due as of that time. So, within 48 hours of my swearing-in, I signed off for the salaries to be paid. Remember that I begged the people to apply for this job; it was not like it was a job reserved for my family. I went round; I promised the people that we will not toy with the welfare of my constituency, which is that of the workers in Oyo State. And one of the things we have to be mindful of is that first, they must get their salaries as and when due. Second, they must have access to training and retraining opportunities. Also, when people have their promotions, the promotions must be backed up by appropriate letters and other things that will make the promotions meaningful. For me, I want to motivate the workers in Oyo State. Gone are the eras when the workers are made redundant and government will be bringing all sorts of consultants to do the jobs of the workers. What I am saying to them is that by demonstrating that the government will do its part, I want the workers to be motivated and be ready to play their own role to ensure that Oyo State is moving forward.
It may also interest you to note that we have done our planning and workers’ salary will always be paid on the 25th of every month. Before you assumed office, there were claims about some funds being taken out of the government coffers illegally. When you took office, how did you meet the state’s treasury? Was it, indeed, depleted or there were still funds? We did not meet the treasury as it should be but the people of Oyo State should not fret, because our government has decided to be forward-looking. We did not meet the state’s purse in good condition but our government has drawn a line between what has been done and what we want to do. We want to focus on what we can do to uplift the state, to make life better for the people.
In one of the sessions when we were opening the books of the past government, the Head of Service is sitting with us here as we speak; it was the past government that appointed the her and when we got there we said if the past government has done something that the people found worthy and good, we would continue with such. Now, the Head of Service brought a file to me and said we cannot appoint people and not give them vehicles with which they will move around in performing the duties. I have approved money for that. But when we checked the books, we found out that a vehicle was procured for the immediate past Head of Service in February. That was Oyo State’s money. You bought a vehicle for the Head of Service in February and she took it away by May.
Yesterday [Friday], we were looking at the books of the Ministry of Works. There was a road contract awarded and it came up to N2 billion per kilometre and I wondered how that could be. Even in the Niger Delta, which is a riverine area, they could not have constructed a kilometre of road for N2 billion. So, I asked how could they have constructed a road for N2 billion per kilometre and I was told that they said they were going to construct filling station, street lights and that it was 32 kilometres. They have paid some money and even two days to the end of the government, on 27 May, they still paid some money. That is the terrible situation we have found ourselves, but we were prepared, because we knew something like that would happen. What will be the focal point of your government? I want to assure with our people in Oyo State that the focal point of our government is how to expand the economy of the state so that there will be shared prosperity in the economy. We are looking forward; we are progressive and we will not be deterred. But if those who left office do not desist from causing trouble for our government, I will expose them. I will bring out all their books. I am pleading with them now, because I know that they will no longer be able to walk freely by the time we expose their atrocities. Some people will be stoned by residents of the state while their houses will be occupied by the people of the state, who will be aggrieved by the height of impropriety and atrocity they committed. By that time, I won’t do anything to stop the people, because even the Government House in Agodi, I am not living there. I am living in my private residence. I only go to receive visitors at the Government House. So, I won’t say anything if Oyo State people move to occupy the homes some people in the past administration used Oyo State’s money to build. But if they stop the on-going plot to destabilise and distract our government, we would also keep looking forward in doing the job we promised the people of the state. On the day of your inauguration, you scrapped the N3, 000 Education Development Levy but in some public primary schools, students are still being asked to pay money despite that order and the one on the N500. Doesn’t your free education policy apply to primary schools?
That is not possible. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria stipulates that primary education up to JSS3 must be free and compulsory. The law also stipulates that any parent that doesn’t ensure that his ward/children goes to school should be sanctioned. So, no one is expected to collect fees from students.
The payment of primary school teachers is first line charge in the allocation going to the local government from the Federal Government. I will make public a telephone number for the people of the state to report such issues of noncompliance on the collection of fees to government. I will monitor to address complaints. Anyone collecting fees that should not be collected will be invited to give explanations about why they are collecting such fees. Those children begging on the streets constitute a security threat and are tools in the hands of criminals. Is there anything being done by the state government to address this threat and take them off the streets?
I talked about a programme of the World Bank and the Federal Government is assisting us through a programme known as BESDA. The children roaming the streets should be in school and the programme is to attract them. To answer your question, it is not only about taking those children off the streets; rehabilitation entails thinking about their future and we have to give them hope. So, we have to take a whole gamut of steps to rehabilitate those children. The need to attract students to school is also one of the reasons behind our decision to stop the payment of N3, 000. The opposition in the state is worried that you hardly stay a whole week in the state that you jet out often. Are those trips official?
They are official. What I can assure the people of the state is that if they look closely, they will know our movements. Last week, I visited the Executive Secretary of UBEC [Universal Basic Education Commission] because about N2.5billion meant for Oyo State was not released. The immediate past government seriously tried to get the money released but was not successful. Based on our conversation, the UBEC decided to release the money. So, I think it is better for me to go to Abuja to get more money for the state than to stay in the state. Those who talk about my movement out of Ibadan should calculate the number of days I spent in the state and see if I have not been able to meet up with 20 days that I should devote to work. I also work on Saturdays and Sundays when there are files to be attended to. This is because I have a contract with the people of the state to make the affairs of the state utmost on my mind. Immediately you assumed office, you sacked local government chairmen. Do you also plan to appoint caretaker chairmen or would you conduct local government election? We will conduct local government election within the first quarter of next year. We will not contravene laws in the election we plan to do. It’s the opposition that is scared about the conduct of election. The matter of sacking them is now before the court so I will not be able to say a lot about that. We are ready to comply with court judgment on the matter. The court asked them not to proceed with the election but they got another judgment to vacate that previous judgment. We have seen so many infractions and they know. But, I am also concerned about the fact that the constitution recognizes 33 local government areas; the issue of creating 35 local council development areas (LCDAs) is still in court. But despite the fact that the case was still in court, why did they proceed with election? You can create LCDAs for development to get to the grassroots but you have to abide by the constitution. You can hold election in 33 local government areas but can only appoint to the 35 LCDAs. I initially agreed with the concept of LCDA but we considered that that was what we met on ground and that it will bring government closer to the grassroots. But most LCDA chairmen do not go to office daily. They just wait for money to be disbursed and share it; only for them to return when another money is to be shared. You conducted an election for chairmen and councillors but you did not swear in councillors. After losing the governorship election, that is a year after conducting the local government election, then you swear in councillors and constitute ALGON. Who does that? But as I have said, we will abide by court judgment but continue with governance. The Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) will be reformed. We will appoint people of impeccable character, not those who write results whether election is held or not. When we conducted the election that brought me in, they said the result would be written but we stood firm to see how that would happen. They were not successful. Across the federation, state governments are known to siphon the funds of local governments through JAAC. However, the Federal Government, recently, through the National Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) came up with regulations to prevent local government money from being siphoned. What is your take on this and are you also aware that the Federal Government has said state governments that do not have elected local government chairmen will not get their funds? It happened before that the Federal Government failed to release the allocations of Lagos State. But the state government got a judgment in its favour that the Federal Government had no such right to withhold the funds of local government. I don’t expect the Federal Government to go that way again. If they do so, we will resort to the courts. But what the NFIU is fighting for is commendable. You were here in Oyo State when the state government purchased 33 excavators for local government areas. What the state government did was to take the money of local government and purchase on their behalf. When that file got to me, I asked why excavators were purchased for local governments and they said that was what the chairmen said they wanted. I then wondered why my local government, Ibadan North-East, would take as priority the purchase of excavator just like local government areas in Oke-Ogun zone of the state. What the NFIU is saying is that what is from FAAC should get to local government areas. We will not spend money meant for local government; we will not spend their money at the state government level. Once they deduct the first line charge, the local government will have money to do what they desire to do. If we have responsible local government chairmen and they key into our programme, we will advise and collaborate with them on their projects. They will spend their money and the state government will add its own and we will meet the expectations of people of various localities.
Our government will not spend money meant for local government areas on their behalf. But it is impossible for money from the Federal Government to go directly to local governments because those monies for first line charge differ from local government to local government. Ibadan has more schools than Oke-Ogun or Ogbomoso. So, if they pay directly to local government, do we ask them to contribute money again for first line charge? The Nigeria Governors Forum is already in court with the Federal Government on the issue of NFIU, because what was pronounced is unconstitutional and impracticable to implement.