Lagos – Business and Political leaders yesterday at the PwC organised event to celebrate ‘the London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG)’s Companies to inspire Africa Report 2019’, canvassed for a stronger public private partnership (PPP) toward building a sustainable economy in Nigeria.
The leaders including Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor, Dr. Dapo Abiodun, his Ogun State counterpart, Okechukukwu Enelamah, the immediate Past Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Oscar Onyema, Chief Executive of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, and Uyi Akpata, West Africa Regional Senior Partner, PwC Nigeria, stressed the need for public and private sector participants to find ways to synergise their strengths to speed up the country’s economic growth and reduce poverty.
The report, which features 97 Nigerian companies out of the 360 list, identifies and celebrates some of Africa’s most inspiring growth businesses, in a research project carried out with the support of PwC, the Africa Development Bank Group, Asoko Insight, CDC Group and Instinctif Partners.
According to the report, Nigeria has the single largest representation with 97 companies featured, building on its leading position established in the previous report with strong representation from the industry and technology & telecom sectors. Nigerian companies showed exceptional growth rates with a CAGR of 47% in revenue and average employee CAGR of 23% over a three-year period.
Speaking on the report Akpata said: “We are extremely honored to partner once again with LSEG for the Lagos launch of the second edition of the “Companies to Inspire Africa” report. It is particularly worthy to note that Nigeria made a strong showing in the report demonstrating the strong entrepreneurial drive and the opportunities the Nigerian market presents.
“Growing a private business can be demanding and exhilarating. Initiatives like this that celebrates success stories does not only expose the companies to greater opportunities but also serves to encourage other entrepreneurs, starting new businesses or scaling existing ones in the region”.
He specifically said: “We at PwC are committed to supporting private businesses, and it’s been our pleasure to host and celebrate these 97 companies here in Lagos along with the other partners on the project”
David Schwimmer, CEO, LSEG, earlier noted: “London Stock Exchange Group’s ‘Companies to Inspire Africa’ report showcases inspirational and entrepreneurial businesses from across the African continent, representing a wide variety of industries and countries. It is particularly encouraging to see the increasing influence of women in leadership roles in these fast-growing companies, playing a pivotal role in shaping the future of African business.
“These high growth companies have the potential to transform the African economy and become tomorrow’s job creators. At LSEG, we are committed to helping companies realise that potential and we are pleased to highlight and celebrate the company success stories behind one of the world’s fastest growing markets.”
Others at the event were Harriet Thompson, the Deputy British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Yewande Sadiku, Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Investment and Promotion Commission, , Dr. Andrew Nevin, Advisory partner/ Chief Executive, PwC Nigeria and Ibukun Adebayo, Director, Co-Head, Emerging Markets, International Market Unit, LSEG, urged public and private sector participants to find ways to synergize their strengths to speed up the country’s economic growth and reduce poverty.
Looking at the executive leadership of the firms, 22% of the local companies featured in the documents are led by women.
The Lagos event is the latest stop in a pan-African roadshow following the official launch of the 2019 edition in London in January 2019. The well-attended event featured interactive panel sessions with some of the nominated companies. The keynote speaker in Lagos was the executive governor. Other speakers included Onyema and Thompson, who represented the UK government.