LAGOS – Cheki.com.ng, said it has made long term plan of making the car buying process easier for Nigerians with the introduction of a major advancement in technology. The company recently launched its first set of products that was primarily aimed at improving the car buying experience among Nigerians. Gbenro Dara, the Chief Executive Officer, Cheki. com.ng, said that the company had launched two financial technology products in the first and second quarter of this year. Dara gave the names of the new technologies as Cheki Finance; a quick car loans service and Cheki True Price, which is car price comparison tool. According to him, Cheki Finance aims at easing the financial burden of acquiring both new and used car in Nigeria. He explained that under this arrangement, car buyers could apply for loans to purchase cars being sold on Cheki.com.ng, which he said could be done at the click of a button. He emphassied that the Cheki True Price also aim to foster price transparency and help car buyers get value for the money they intend to spend on acquiring cars. He pointed out that True Price shows the price range that a car falls within and goes on to compare this price range with the price that a car seller is asking, noting that this proves to be a valuable tool for car shoppers as it helps them get value for their money. He added: “Our strong commitment to customer-centricity is what has allowed us to remain a top player in Nigeria’s automotive market for almost a decade. In furtherance of our efforts, we’re investing more in technology solutions that help our users to overcome the most prevalent challenges as regards car acquisition.” Over the years, Cheki. com.ng has continually made efforts to innovate its processes, products and packages and also in the development of technology solutions that improve the buying experience of car buyers in Nigeria. In addition to its fintech solutions, the platform also provides car user reviews and car buying concierge services. Cheki Finance is a car loan service designed to effectively meet the financing needs of car buyers in the country. This service aims to provide car buyers with quick car loans for the purchase of Nigerian used cars, foreign used (Tokunbo) cars, or brand new cars that are available on its website; Cheki.com.ng. Cheki is offering the exciting car loan service in collaboration with top-rated financial institutions in Nigeria at a very conducive terms and conditions and convenient interest rates. Ikenna Oyenta, Cheki. com.ng, Marketing Campaign Manager in his explanation said Cheki.com. ng is a digital marketplace for quality vehicles. The platform, he hinted provided car buyers with a wide variety of quality cars and supports car purchasing with a range of supplementary services that include car loans, insurance, and car buying concierge. Cheki.com.ng also provides private car sellers and car dealerships of all sizes with qualified leads and buyers. The company has been in the business of providing intermediary services to prospective vehicle buyers in the past six years.