Kerry Katona’s daughter and mum have hit back at hurtful claims that she has “blood on her hands” over the death of her ex-husband George Kay. Singer and reality star Katona shares a five-year-old daughter, Dylan-Jorge, with former rugby player Kay who died over the weekend from an apparent cocaine overdose. But campaign group Fathers4Justice heaped insult onto the devastating time for the family with a tweet accusing Katona of being responsible for her ex’s death by allegedly not allowing him access to his daughter. The group’s founder Matt O’Connor tweeted: “Tragic news about the passing of George Kay who came to Fathers4Justice for help. He was heartbroken after @KerryKatona7 denied him access to daughter Dylan-Jorge. Katona’s not ‘heartbroken’. She has blood on her hands. Matt O’C #RIP” Former Atomic Kitten star Katona’s family were disgusted by the accusation, and her eldest daughter Molly, 17, jumped to her defence. She replied: “I suggest take this tweet down, how dare you make statements this disgusting at such a vulnerable time, your accusations are inaccurate and extremely insensitive. I truly hope you never find yourself in this kind of situation. Vile words from a vile person you should be ashamed.” Katona’s mum Sue supported Molly by adding: “Well said 123_mollymc and so true x” The tweet also sparked a flurry of messages of support for Katona from famous pals as well as fans. Earlier, O’Connor had told The Sun: “The last time I spoke to George he was in a bad way. “When fathers have problems they are banned from seeing their children whereas when mothers like Katie Price and Kerry Katona have problems, they get sympathy from the public and dealt with very differently. “George was clearly unwell but the heartbreak of not seeing his daughter will have exacerbated the problem. “He could have had supervised contact but they chose to cut him off instead. “Your mental state is going to suffer. When you’re alive but can’t see your children it’s like a living bereavement. It’s a tragedy for his daughter.” Katona and Kay met when he was working as her driver and began dating in 2012, marrying in 2014 five months after the birth of their daughter. They split in 2015 after he was arrested for allegedly assaulting her, but despite her taking out a restraining order against Kay, friends of Katona denied that she had ever stopped him from seeing his child. 