Abuja – Against the backdrop of several agitations following the National Insurance Commission’s (NAICOM) announcement of the new capital base for insurance operators in May, President Muhammadu Buhari has given a full backing to the exercise as he advised the operators to take advantage of the opportunities provided by it. The president, who gave the warning while declaring open the just concluded national conference organised by the Insurance Industry Consultative Council (IICC) held in Abuja, warned insurance operators to desist from fighting against the sector’s recapitalisation policy directive. The president advised the operators to explore available options including mergers and acquisitions as means of achieving their continued existence, instead of resorting to fighting the policy because of inability to raise the required capital. It would be recalled that the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) had in May 20, 2019, announced a new capital regime for insurance and reinsurance companies in a circular to all the Chief Executive Officers of licensed companies. According to the circular, while life insurance companies currently operating with N2billion capital base should raise their paid up share capital to N8billion representing about 300 per cent increase, non-life or general business companies were required to raise their capital base to N10 billion from N3billion. Composite companies which combine both life and non-life are expected to also raise their capital adequacy to N18billion from the current N5billion and reinsurance companies to move up their capital to N20 billion from N10 billion. The commission stated that the reasons for the increase was to ensure that insurance companies have adequate capacity to pay claims as at when due. The deadline for the exercise has been fixed for June 30 2020. President Buhari also said that the Federal Ministry of Finance would collaborate with National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) and insurance sector stakeholders to achieve 40 Per cent financial inclusion rate by the year, 2020. “The insurance Industry has rules and regulations that all insurance companies must follow and this will cause them to struggle to understand and implement the rules, new technologies and innovations. “With the recapitalisation directive issued recently, we expect operators to be truth to themselves and consider all opportunities available for continued existence. While this could include mergers and acquisitions, it should not include fighting the policy just because you cannot raise the additional capital”, the President who was represented by Mahmud Isah-Dutse, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance said. On financial inclusion, he said: “As you are aware, it is a major policy thrust of this administration to ensure poverty reduction and financial inclusion of the majority of Nigerians hitherto excluded from the financial services. “The Financial Sector Development Organisation enhancing financial innovation access estimated that in 2018, 36.8 percent of Nigerian adult population remains outside the formal sector. “The federal ministry of finance will collaborate with the National Insurance Commission and the industry stakeholders to ensure that the target 40 Per cent of inclusive rate by the end of 2020 is achieved as contained in the 2018 Reversed National Financial Inclusion Strategy.” President Buhari noted that the timing of the conference is very auspicious as the Federal government through the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) is rolling out various initiatives with the objectives of strengthening the institutions and increasing the spread of insurance companies in the country. He said that the insurance industry has undergone some series of reforms of recent which include introduction of products and services such as the microinsurance, Kakafu insurance and Bancassurance among others. “Insurance companies are now facing serious challenges in the current competitive environment and these calls for market innovation, creating new services, prompt delivery of services to customers that will lead to growth and development of the industry”, the President stressed. On his part, the Commissioner for Insurance, Alhaji Mohammed Kari, noted that the theme is very pertinent against the backdrop of the need for the Nigerian insurance industry to remain relevant in an era of dynamism where operating in the same way is an assured route to irrelevance. According to him, “The need for radical reforms has been accentuated by the disruptive impact on the insurance industry of a series of digital innovations in areas such as online sales technologies, machine learning, the Internet of Things, advanced analytics and virtual reality, among others. While these new technologies are already making it easier for consumers/policyholders to benefit from superior service and more choice as well as lower prices, there are corresponding challenges. “For example, cyber risk and crimes, determination of liability in driverless car accident, emergence of inter-sectoral competitors as well as disruptive social and technological changes. “Therefore, in order to remain relevant and become a critical contributor to the national economy, the industry must consciously be proactive and organized so as to take advantage of the opportunities provided by these disruptive developments while at the same time curbing their corresponding negative impacts.” Kari maintained that firms will only benefit from digital technology only if they embrace its potentials along the entire insurance value chain, including underwriting and claims management. This would therefore entail a rethink of the industry’s business strategy and alignment of its operational practices to contemporary economic context such as the Economic Recovery Growth Programme (ERGP) of the Federal Government, sustainable and inclusive insurance as well as exploiting the benefits of the implementation of the 2nd Phase of Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI), among others.” He said the need to exploit the opportunities of digitalization and to tame the cumulative consequence of inflation and devaluation of the Naira heightens the necessity for the ongoing reforms of the insurance industry such as, expansion of the insurance distribution channels, financial inclusion, corporate governance enforcement, market discipline, professionalism and the recapitalisation exercise aimed at strengthening insurance institutions and increasing the spread of insurance in the country. Eddie Efekoha , the Chairman, the Insurance Industry Consultative Council, pleaded with the NAICOM to give consideration to reasonable suggestions by the Nigeria Insurers Association towards the recapitalization process. “As we commence this round of recapitalization I plead with the National Insurance Commission to give favorable consideration to the suggestions made by the Nigerian Insurers Association in their on-going engagements so that the necessary guidelines when released will ensure that the objectives of this reform are fully realised. “This recapitalisation exercise, like every past reform, presents both opportunities and new challenges”,  he said.