Hon. Danji Usman Shidi is the lawmaker representing Wukari-Ibi Federal constituency in the House of
Representatives. in this interview with JANET AUDU, he opens up on some of his programmes for his
constituency. He also speaks on some national issues. Excerpt: During your first term, you re­portedly worked for the con­struction of bridge at River Ibi. Now that you are back to the House, how would you ensure that the project is executed? That project tops my pri­orities in this 9th Assem­bly. I have set my mind on achieving it. We will prod the government to do that. That is the only capital proj­ect awarded by the Federal Government in that constit­uency. I will reach out to my colleagues from neigh­bouring states like Plateau, Nassarawa and Benue states and their governors for us to put heads together to ensure the Federal Government ac­tualises it because our peo­ple have suffered a lot on that road. This is the first project we ever had in our area that amounts to such a billion naira. We have never had a federal project amounting to N55 billion before. Was it captured in the 2019 bud­get? This kind of projects is under Federal Ministry of Works. The ministry will include it in its budget. So, there is no budget that comes with the name of any proj­ect, but there are budgets for bridges. Presently, there is crisis between the Jukun and Tivs. As the high­est ranking political officer from Wukari and Ibi, what do you think is the way out of this crisis? I call on them to lay down their arms. There is no need for this crisis. We are both one, created by God. The fight has no basis. Apart from innocent persons dying for no just cause, enough of this bloodshed. The crisis is an evil wind that blows no one any good. There is no good crisis, nor bad peace. The way forward is mutual respect and understanding. People should know where their boundaries start and stop. The whole thing started like two people fighting. But criminals took advantage of that and created very sharp disaffection that let to what we see today. It started like a joke. Criminals started looting, waylaying and kill­ing people and it escalated to the ugly situation we now have. I condemn it in strong terms. The Tiv must learn to tolerate the Jukun and should know that the Jukun have been existing in Wu­kari community for over 400 years. Tiv people were the last people that came to Ni­geria. They came 150 years ago. They started having their Tortixii by 1958. But, the Jukun came with their kings for over 400 years. So, there should be mutual re­spect between them. The Tiv should know that the Jukun are their hosts and the Jukun should know that the Tiv are their brothers and sisters. They are neighbours who should live in peace. No so­ciety, no state or nation can develop without peace. You can’t do anything amidst in­security. Peace can best be described as the catalyst for development. We need peace to develop. We need peace to move forward. Above all, we need peace to worship God. There are agitations for the creation of more states. How realistic are such demand? That is not the best op­tion for Nigeria. How many of the existing states have fared well out of the 36 we have? Only three are viable and self-reliant. The others cannot survive without the Federal Government. They solely depend on the Feder­al Government. For a new state to be created, it must be viable economically to contribute to the national pulse. But, when you talk about state creation, you will be surprise the kind of sen­timents some Nigerians will be expressing, like issues of tribe and religion. These are issues that cause more disaf­fection in this country. There are some states that cannot even pay salaries without the Federal Government’s assistance. I don’t support agitations for creation of more states. President Muhammadu Buhari recently spoke of his support for True Federalism, even as most Nigerians believe that the fed­eration should be restructured. How do you think the nation should be restructured? I don’t know his plan on the issue of restructuring. But, I believe Nigeria needs to be restructured along the line of true federalism. But, if Nigeria is restructured to­day, several states will fold up because the lack econom­ic viability. I don’t know how Buhari intends to restruc­ture the country. People are calling for restructuring be­cause of injustice. If there is justice for all, there won’t be call for restructuring. But, now, some set of Nigerians felt marginalised. They feel relegated to the background, hence the demand for re­structuring. Some Nigerians are regarded as second class citizens. If there is justice and equity, there won’t be is­sue of restructuring. United States practices the best de­mocracy in the world today. They have 52 states and they see faring well. Nobody is talking about restructuring in U.S because there is jus­tice and equity. Even in the family, if you are not just or fair, family members, there will be complains. So, it is about justice and equity. What is your take on the issue of state police? I support state police. Most governors are called chief security officers of their states, but they are not in charge of security. They can­not give order. There are cri­ses all over the country. The Federal Government is over­whelmed. The Armed Forces are overwhelmed presently. If states are allowed to have their police, they will assist the Federal Government to manage the security chal­lenges, because the police are locals. They know where the criminals are hiding. You were mentioned among those who did not sponsor any bill in the 8th Assembly. As you are in the 9th Assembly, what bills do you intend to sponsor that will have direct bearing in the lives of your people? It is not true that I did not sponsor any bill in the last Assembly. I cosponsored a bill with Hon Pwojok from Plateau State. I still have a bill that is rolling now. It is the Business and Rules Committee that sometimes delays bills because of their nature of their work. There are several bills from other members still pending. It is not only mine. It is not as if I don’t have a bill. I still have a bill on citing of Federal College of Fisheries in Ibi. I also have a bill on the care for handicaps, another on forest guards. The bill on for­est guards is to take care of our forests. Criminals have discovered that we don’t have forest guards any longer. Our forests are so porous that they have turned it to their comfort zone. They carry out operations on the highways and run to hide in our for­ests. When I was growing up in my 20s, we used to have forest guards. That is why a forest like Sambisa has been taken into an enclave by Boko Haram. Nobody is protecting our forests again. That is why I came up with this bill.