Senator Elisha Abbo, the youngest senator of the Federal Republic, is in the midst of a storm. Abbo on Tuesday July 9, 2019, behaved in an undistinguished manner expected from a lawmaker in the Red Chamber, the nation’s highest lawmaking house, when he beat up a nursing mother in a sex toy shop in Abuja. No one is questioning what a married sector was doing in a sex toy shop with three young ladies, but the action he exhibited while there has put him in an ignominious situation. Abbo, whose action was caught in a video that has long gone viral, attracted criticisms from a cross section of Nigerians. Since then, the Senate has set up an ad hoc committee to investigate the matter. Already, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) has ordered a probe. Last Friday, he was reportedly released on bail by the police after spending a night in police custody. Ironically, Abbo, who defeated the respected Senator Binta Garba, to emerge as the winner of the Adamawa North Senatorial District election, beat up the lady in the presence of an armed policeman who rather than assist the victim, arrested her. According to reports, Abbo entered the shop around 6.pm with three young women to purchase sex toys. But, shortly after they began shopping for their prized toys, one of the three girls brought in by the senator started to throw up. She was said to have vomited multiple times, prompting the shop owner to remark that the woman should have vomited outside and not inside her shop, especially since she was not a child. Abbo, who was said to be agitated by the sudden illness of one of his girls, was said to have accused the shop owner of poisoning the store’s air conditioner. The shop owner’s argument that if the air conditioner had been contaminated, others in the shop would have also taken ill, was said to have angered Abbo, and the two began exchanging words over the matter. The senator, then, was said to have called a policeman who he then ordered to arrest the shop owner. The shop owner quickly called her father to inform him that Abbo had called the police over the matter and that she was about to be taken away. The shop owner’s friend, who had been standing nearby, tried to intervene by pleading with the second man to take things easy. But, she was slapped repeatedly by the lawmaker. The offending lawmaker, has however, apologised to the lady, the womenfolk, the church in genral, the Senate and the Nigerians in general fur his ungentlemanly attack and public brawl, not expected from a ‘Distinguished Senator’. The question is: For assaulting the nursing mother, is Senator Abbo’s ublic apology enough punishment for his action? To Err Is Human, To Forgive Is Divine A former House of Assembly aspirant and member of Grand Democratic Party of Nigeria (GDPN) in Ohaji/Egbema LGA of Imo State, said: “To me, the apology by Senator Elisha Abbo over his assault to a nursing mother in Abuja is acceptable. It takes a lot of courage for one to apologise for one’s act of misconduct. To err is human and to forgive is divine. “In the first place, you should appreciate the fact that some ladies are naturally rude and I want to believe that Senator Abbo must have been provoked. But, that is not to say that he was right to have behaved they way he did. He has realised his mistake and should be pardoned.” Abbo Should Be Punished A female chieftain of the Advanced Congress for Democratic (ACD), Mbaitoli council area of Imo State, stated: “Senator Elisha Abbo should be punished to serve as a deterrent to others, apology or no apology. If he goes scot-free, others might copy him. Why should be beat up a nursing mother, even if the woman is his wife?  He is a coward. He Has Shown Humility And Remorse A Minna-based agriculturist opined: “There is no law in Nigeria that says that an elected Senator, House of Assembly or even Councillor should be removed for insulting or assaulting a nursing mother. In as much as I am not supporting what Senator Elisha Abbo did, possibly he did so out of youthful exuberance. “I understand he is just in his early 40s and you know what young men of his age can do. There are many of Elisha Abbos out there. The reason he is making news is simply because he has become a public figure. I believe he must have learnt a lesson or two not to indulge in certain acts especially now he is no longer Elisha Abbo in his private capacity, but Senator Elisha Abbo. That means everything about him is being weighed from moral point of view. He must therefore live by example. Look at the level of reactions his actions and inactions, particularly what he thinks he did in the secret has been attracting global condemnation, particularly from a cross section of Nigerians world over. “My opinion is that he should be forgiven because I read in one of the platforms that he has apologised to the woman, or the nursing mother in question. For publicly apologising shows element of humility and remorse for his actions. Since he has tendered unreserved apology to the person and Nigerians, Senator Elisha Abbo should be forgiven. I don’t want us to dwell so much on this issue as I see it as diversionary. Nigerians should not ignore important things that should form national discourse.” His Apology Is Not Enough An Osogbo-based media practitioner, stated that the apology tendered by Senator Elisha Abbo for assaulting a nursing mother in Abuja shop is not enough. He must be prosecuted and jailed accordingly for assaulting fellow Nigerians and nursing mother for that matter. According to him, such a character is not supposed to hold high public office such as the Senate, adding that he should be suspended for two years, prosecuted and jailed. According to him, “you cannot do such a thing in America or UK without be jailed. Weeping over the matter is deceit and those are the kind of leaders Nigerians entrusted the destiny of our children in their hands. It is shameful.” He said that the police officer, who watched while the Senator beat up the lady, was also an embarrassment, “and portrayed the kind of security personnel that we have in Nigeria who do not know their responsibilities and duties as well as rights of Nigerians they were employed to protect. “The police officer acted because of the money they are receiving from the politicians and he should be punished for his action and inaction in accordance to law for dereliction of duties.” He Deserves To Be Taught A Lesson A Benin-based university lecturer: “Senator Elisha Abbo should be taught a lesson of his life for his animalistic behaviour. He should be sent on suspension for a period not less than three months before his apology could be accepted. “For a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to exhibit such an act in the public, an apology without a severe sanction will not teach him any lesson. When I saw his photograph on the social media with ‘fried’ hair, I know he is not a responsible Senator. A mere public apology is not enough. He should be made to face the music he played for himself.”