Dr Victor Enweruzo, a Peoples Democratic Party stalwart, was pioneer Lagos State Co-ordinator of Atikulated Agenda 2019 and later the State Coordination of Unit 2 Unit Initiative, two of the numerous political pressure groups that backed the Atiku/Obi presidential ticket. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the problems with the party’s Lagos State chapter, among other crucial issues. Excerpts: What is the state of Unit2Unit Initiative and several other pro-Abubakar Atiku groups? Is it possible that they will regroup for future elections? This question came at the nick of time. Since after the elections, people have been eager to hear from me and the National Coordinator of Unit2Unit Initiative. The Unit2Unit Initiative is duly registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). It will continue to play its role to ensure good governance in Nigeria and that power is equally shared in the country. We will not relent in this objective. We have done our best with the National Coordinator, Dr. Vincent Anyigor. As former State Coordinator of Atikulated Agenda 2019 and also Coordinator of Unit2Unit Initiative, our sacrifices were not in vain. We worked for our principal, Atiku Abubakar, without a dime from anybody. We hope that Presidential Electoral Tribunal will do the needful to ensure that Atiku Abubakar regains his mandate. We worked hand in hand with other groups to ensure that Atiku won the election. All of us did well and we paid our price, except for those who betrayed themselves because of money. We at Unit2Unit did it to save Nigerians who have been suffering under the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC). We do hope to regroup. We have not really dispersed. We are still united. We have not got the result of our sacrifice. We are hopeful that the tribunal will give justice to Atiku, with all the overwhelming evidence. So, we are not giving up. Our National Coordinator and I, as well as several others who wish Nigeria well, are with Atiku. Some of us still go to the tribunal with Atiku. Victory for Atiku is victory to Unit2Unit. Although there were several Atiku groups in Lagos, yet Atiku Abubakar was defeated in the state. What factors would you say contributed to the loss of the PDP presidential candidate to the APC’s candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari? There is a Mr. Moneybag in Lagos, who had bullion vans loaded with dollars, pounds and naira. Nobody dares to question him. In a place we are in Lagos and in a situation where we have a corrupt Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) what happened during the elections might not be surprising. Unit2Unit and other groups, and even when I was the Coordinator of Atikulated Agenda 2019, we moved from place to place, mobilising Nigerians for Atiku. But, INEC caved in to pressure for obvious reasons. The result was that Atiku was said to have lost the election. Even if Atiku had won in Lagos, the Presidency had already made up its mind to deny him victory and in the process deny Nigerians good governance. The media exposed some bullion vans packed somewhere during the elections. No one, not even the DSS, did anything about it. I believe that one day, Nigerians will get it right. There were accusations and counter accusations by the PDP leaders in Lagos and the party’s governorship candidate, Jimi Agbaje, after the electoral loss. What is your take on that? Do you think Agbaje could be considered once more as a governorship candidate of for the Senate under the party’s platform? People do not see Jimi Agbaje as a good politician. Even PDP bigwigs see him as a sell-out. His body language explains who he is. I was surprised that Agbaje was once more given the party’s ticket. On my several visits to some stakeholders, we discussed about Agbaje. Several people did not see him as the right candidate for PDP. People questioned his vision for the party and the state. Several PDP leaders saw it coming. He did not want to work with anyone. He could not trust the non-indigenes who wanted to assist him. The party made a mistake fielding Agbaje. We had to play along because of Atiku. If PDP features Agbaje 10 times as its candidate, he will lose 10 times. I wonder if any other party will accept Agbaje as its candidate again in Lagos. The Lagos chapter of PDP has been facing leadership crisis with no one as the chairman presently. What is your view on that? There will always be a leadership crisis in Lagos PDP. The PDP should need a younger person to lead the party as chairman. Someone like the former chairman, Adegbola Dominic, should be an adviser. He is elderly. PDP needs a younger, visional person, who has the drive, someone credible to run the party. Moshood Salvador had to look for a greener pasture. Most politicians are like harlots. They run from one party to another. PDP has not done well in Lagos. When they have funds, one man will sit on it instead of bringing materials for people in the field to work with. Such leaders will travel overnight and dump the money somewhere. It happened during the time of Goodluck Jonathan. The same thing repeated during the time of Atiku Abubakar. It will continue until PDP looks for people with integrity to run its affairs. One of the PDP chieftains, Chief Ogunlewe was recently mooted to have left PDP. Several other PDP chieftains like its former chairman, Moshood Salvador, and Remi Adikwu-Bakare, defected to APC with their supporters. What do all these tell of the party in Lagos? You have to understand that in the pursuit of greener pasture, some promises could have been made before such defections. It could also be that some people have some skeletons in their cupboards and will not want to fall out with the ruling party and government. When they defected to the APC, their sins are forgiven. We are still watching what Chief Ogunlewe wants to do as he has not officially defected to any other party. How do you think the Lagos PDP can pick up the pieces and move forward in preparation of the 2013 general elections? I don’t know if there will be an election in 2013 going by what is happening in the nation, especially the killings in parts of the country. Some people gathered in Yenagoa recently, saying they want restructuring. With the influx of aliens who came to kill and the controversial Ruga issue, which was only suspended and not cancelled yet by the Federal Government, I wonder if Nigeria will be united to have elections in 2023. However, if there will be elections, PDP chiefs need to sit down and have serious dialogue among themselves. They should forget who founded the party. Presently, I see PDP as a team which do not play together to win. They play individually to score. The elderly ones should sit behind and watch and allow the younger men with better intelligence quotient to be in charge. Very soon, the elderly ones will die. PDP should look for vibrant young ones that will be in charge of the party. Lagos PDP should take a cue from its national leadership and hand over its affairs to young people. That is the only way the party will make impact in 2013, if there will be an election.