ADO-EKITI – Some aggrieved residents of Odo-Ora -Ekiti on Sunday staged a peaceful protest in Ado-Ekiti over an alleged plot by certain forces to compromise corruption charges against their traditional ruler, the Obalemo , Oba Akin Adeyemo . The embattled monarch is standing trial over alleged case of forgery along with some of his chiefs.
Oba Adeyemo along with Chief Fayigbe were docked for forging the signatures of other Chiefs on the Odo Ora-Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local council Chieftaincy payment vouchers.
The irate community members had sought immediate dethronement of Oba Adeyemo over the matter and other sundry issues bordering on his selection as the town’s monarch.
The placard carrying protesters demanded justice on the fraud case against the monarch, claiming that there were enough official documents linking the Oba to the crime.
Dozens of aggrieved protesters who poured to the streets of Ado-Ekiti urged the Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice not to allow the matter to be swept under the carpet .
“We justice over the protracted Court case instituted to dethrone the current monarch over alleged forgery and irregularities surrounding his installation.”
The protesters also vowed to take their grievances to Governor Kayode Fayemi and other stakeholders in Ekiti .
Some of the placards they carried read thus, “We want peace in our country home – Odo Ora-Ekiti, “The rule of Law must prevail,” “Governor Fayemi please save us from injustice, “Odo Ora-Ekiti deserves peace, “ etc.
Comrade Sesan Ojo, leader of protesters, said all what they want is justice on the Odo Ora Obaship matter.
“We heard it from a reliable source that the judiciary may be bought-over in order to pervert justice on Odo Ora monarch crisis,” Adelusi, one of the protesters said.
“We are appealing to Governor Kayode Fayemi to ensure that justice prevails. We have been making frantic efforts to see the governor in order to express our displeasure,” he added.
Another protester, Mrs. Tayo Ajayi, disclosed that they had no confidence in the matter the way it was going because of so many challenges facing the community.
She said, “We appeal to the present government to come to our plight. We want justice and nothing more,” she appealed.
Oba Akin Adeyemo and Chief Samuel Fayigbe were arraigned before a Chief Magistrate Court sitting in Ado-Ekiti recently for alleged stealing the community right.
The monarch who is currently facing four-count charge ranging from conspiracy, stealing, forgery to fraudulently conversion of the sum of two million, N453,000 belonging to minor Chiefs of Odo-Ora Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government Area of Ekiti State.
Chief Magistrage Adesoji Adegboye had granted the bail of Chief Samuel Fayigbe on condition of N200,000 with two sureties and N250,000 each while His Royal Majesty, Oba Akin Adeyemo was granted bail on self-recognition.