Lagos –  Dr. Siju Iluyomade, the founder of the Handmaidens Women in Leadership Forum, has urged Nigerian women to seek financial empowerment so that they can contribute to the development and growth of the family. Speaking at the Women in Leadership Series (WiLS) 2019 edition in Lagos, she said the purpose of the event was to make Nigerian women understand that they need to be economically empowered to contribute to the development the country. She said that women are the pillars of the home and society and they should do all they can to support their families. According to her, gone were the days when women sat at home and expected their husbands to provide for them and their children. She called on women to work hard in order to leave good a legacy behind. Also speaking at the event, Mrs Betsy Obaseki, wife of the Edo State governor, challenged Nigerians to cultivate a positive mindset about the country and change their attitude and way of doing things so that the country can move forward. She urged Nigerians to see the nation as one destined for greatness. Also speaking, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, wife of the Ogun State governor, counselled Nigerian women not to be afraid to go into men dominated businesses and careers if that was where their passion was, adding, “As women, don’t quit, hold on tenaciously to what you believe in, do your things well, don’t be greedy, do things from your heart and you will inspire people.” Giving her keynote address, Prof Olufunmilayo Olopade, an expert in the treatment of cancer among black women, tasked Nigerian women and men to challenge the government to provide grants for medical research, so that cure would be found to the diseases that plague the people. This year’s edition with the theme, Leading Women – Building Legacies, had Dr. Olufunmilayo I. Olopade, a hematology oncologist and director of the University of Chicago Hospital’s Cancer Risk Clinic, as the keynote speaker alongside other distinguished panelists and speakers. Also in attendance as special guests of honour were Lagos State First Lady, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo Olu; Ogun State First Lady, Mrs Bamidele Abiodun; Edo State First Lady, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki; wife of the Speaker, House Representatives, Mrs. Salamu Gbajabiamila, Rear Admiral Itunu Hotonu (Retd) and others. Mrs. Iluyomade urged women to maximize their talents, strength and skills to do what is important, adding that they should strive leave good legacies that impact others. Over 10 presentations were delivered by the accomplished panelists; Bolanle Austen-Peters, founder of Terra Kulture; TY Bello, accomplished photographer; Kofo Akinkugbe, founder and CEO of SecureID; Prof. Sade Ogunsola, Deputy Vice Chancellor- UNILAG; Prof. Enase Okonedo, Dean, Lagos Business School; Adesuwa Onyenokwe, editor-in-chief of Today’s Woman, Funke Bucknor-Obruthe, founder and CEO of Zapphaire Events; Achenyo Idachaba-Obaro, award winning entrepreneur and Cecilia Akintomide, an independent non-executive director at First Bank.