The Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Captain Rabiu Hamisu Yadudu, recently revealed the identity of the stowaway that climbed the Azman Airline at Murtala Mohammed International Airport as Nigerien-born Usman Adamu.
The FAAN boss recalled that the same suspect had been arrested before in the same airport, pointing out that, the patrol security team arrested the same suspect on July 14, 2019 within the Airport premises.
The breach which is considered as a serious security concern earned the Aviation Security Unit heads that were on duty when the incident occurred, indefinite suspension. OLUSEGUN KOIKI spoke with two aviation experts, Comrade Abdulrasaq Saidu and Mr. Ayo Obilana, on the security breach. We Don’t Have Serious Security Arrangements In Place –Saidu What is your say on the recent security breach at the airport by an unauthorized person that climbed an aircraft at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos? The act was very surprising to me and it is really shocking to say the least. It shows that the area that the incident happened, a private terminal under Build Operate and Transfer (BOT), the Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), is not fully secured as it should be. The management of Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of MMA2, has its internal security, the airline equally has one and the same to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). For the intruder to beat the entire security layout to the tarmac and climbed the aircraft is a very serious breach. This goes on to say that there are some lapses within these three security areas and they should be taken very seriously. Thank God that the intruder was not a suicide bomber, but till date, no one knows his mission. Some people are saying he is insane, but we don’t know. A mad person can equally cause an arm to any system. He was supposed to have been apprehended and stopped from getting to that point. What was the duty of the airline’s security before the pilot and some passengers onboard sighted him? What has the security of MMA2 been doing on this? The security lapses ought not to happen if there was no negligent of duties by all the security layers. The FAAN has taken some actions by suspending those who were found not to be up and doing in the discharge of their duties, but the airline and the terminal operators are yet to take any concrete step on the issue. However, a panel has been set up to unravel the circumstances that led to the breach. But, when you look at similar incidents in the industry, you will know that we have never taken proactive steps in the sector, rather, we take fire brigade approach on issues. Why do you think we are having this security challenge in the industry? During the first coming of Prof. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as the Minister of Finance under former President Olusegun Obasanjo, she introduced Medium Terms Sector Strategies (MTSS). That scheme checkmated a lot of corruption and low morale of workers in the sectors. The scheme shut out inflation of contracts between 2003 and 2007, but during her second coming as a Minister of Finance, that scheme was jettisoned under former President Goodluck Jonathan. That was when you saw politicians took over the entire aviation business. Certain people who had no business in the industry were imposed on career civil servants and given high portfolios. That alone, reduced the productivity of workers and killed the morale of those who had hoped to get to the top of their careers and it created a lot of lapses in the system. It also reduced qualitative services to the public. I think to solve the challenge, the government should stop unnecessary political interference and imposition into aviation business, rather, the government should focus on policies to drive the sector. In doing this, the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) that would be appointed should be professionals and operate in line with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) best standards and practices. With this, they will be able to advice whosoever that is driving the political ideology. What is the implication of the security breach to the Nigerian aviation industry? It will portray us as an industry and a country without proper security arrangement in place, which is not good for our internal and international reputations. The reputation of aviation security is questionable unless there is a quick remedy, which FAAN has started. For instance, those who were supposed to be up and doing in the discharge of their duties, but failed have been placed on suspension, while other security personnel have taken over their positions, pending the outcome of investigation into the disgraceful act. Beyond this, what is the duty of Bi-Courtney and the airline to provide security to that equipment? This cannot happen in advance country. This is why I am saying that it’s only God that saved that situation for Nigeria. This goes on to show that we have inadequate infrastructure at our airports. How many strategic areas of our airports do you see Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras that are working optimally? Should MMA2 not have a functional CCTV that can capture such an intrusion? Do you think there are enough background checks on those employed as security personnel by the government? In the past, we had background checks on those to be employed as security personnel in the industry when FAAN was allowed to carry out its duties as it should be done. For instance, the Aviation Medical Centre used to carry out medicals for those to be employed and select the able bodied men and capable ones among them. FAAN had age limit for those to be employed as Aviation Security (AVSEC) and fire fighters, which was 30 years old, but political interference and imposition have crept into this. The professionals appointed by the government would like to keep their jobs, but since the imposition began, the lapses are now more glaring and unfit people are employed into different areas of sector. Those not employable are given critical jobs to do. At a time, some of them found not to be fit, were given the booth, but a call from “the above” reversed the decision. Today, those people are undergoing training in Kaduna and would soon be re-absorbed into the system, but we have told them that those who were sacked due to age and poor medicals should not return. Nigeria Is Not An Isolated Case –Ayo Obilana What’s the implication of the recent security breach at Lagos Airport on the Nigerian aviation industry? What happened was breach of security in the sense that it falls under what we call unlawful interference. Aviation industry remains a prime target for terrorists anywhere in the world. Somebody may be going into the airside without a bag or so, but it is still a breach of security, which of course is not acceptable in the aviation industry. The implication of the breach is that something is fundamentally wrong with our system. Mind you, there is nothing like local aviation, it is global standard that doesn’t encourage security breach or unlawful interference anywhere in the industry. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, several arrangements have been put in place to forestall unlawful act and prevent it from happening again, but it can still happen because there is nothing that is 100 per cent guaranteed or security proof. All we need to do as a country is to mitigate it and ensure that it doesn’t happen in our industry again. People should be alert to their responsibility. How can we improve on our security arrangements in the industry to boost confidence? I want to say it here that the issue of security breach, in aviation is not peculiar to Nigeria alone. Several countries too have challenges with their aviation industry. So, Nigeria is not an isolated case, but we can curb it. For instance, in US in August 2018, at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, a ground crew member stole a turboprop passenger plane. He flew for about an hour before crashing the plane on a nearby island. That was in the US despite their tight security arrangement, but the fact is they come in different ways. However, to overcome it, we need infrastructure in right places and they must be adequate. Are the security gates strong enough? The perimeter fence and wall, are they what we require to ward off security threats at our airports? Also, the equipment is very important. Do you have vehicles to be able to do perimeter and gate patrols. Also, do you also have facilities to overlook some critical areas like the airside and the perimeter areas so that you can nip in the bud any threat in that area? Also, training is very important and from time to time, you are expected to review whatever you have in place through survey and inspections. Then, you have to properly remunerate the security personnel so that security won’t be compromised. All we need to do is training, training and retraining. Nigerians are intelligent and smart people, we know that, but we still have to train people locally. You don’t employ people from outside like Kaduna, Sokoto, Enugu States and others to come and secure Lagos Airport for instance. You have to take people from their locality to do the work. Also, there are courses that you have to take to be able to familiarise yourself with security. Aviation security is primarily a specialised aspect of security. You just have to train people and those you are employing must know what to do in case of an emergency and what their reactions should be. You don’t just take anyone to do the job. Training is the most important thing. For instance, anybody can shoot a gun, but if you are not trained as a policeman, of course, you will continue to have accidental discharge or stray bullets. So, training is the key thing. Is FAAN adequately training the security personnel to man these critical areas? I won’t be able to talk for FAAN on this; I think they will be able to properly and adequately answer that question. If I say yes and you find out something contrary to my position, then, I have not told you the truth. The fact is I don’t know the training curriculum of FAAN, but I believe the agency has a training school and it trains people regularly. What they need to do is to review what they have in place from time to time, which is very important. If the training is not adequate enough, then, you look at why and you ameliorate it and make it conducive for the job. Has there been a time aviation security was compromised in the sector? Apart from AVSEC members, anyone that has access to the airport if not well-remunerated can compromise safety. For instance, a cleaner that receives N15, 000 or N20,000 as a monthly salary and is enticed with the sum of N50,000, which is more than double of his monthly salary, to help plant something inside the aircraft, if care is not taken, such a person can compromise. This has happened in the past. People have been arrested at our airports for smuggling things into the aircraft especially drugs. This happens all over the world, but the equipment you have in place like the screening machines, detectors, Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras and others will help you to curb such menace in the sector.