Flyin Imariagbe is the Vice President of Edo Accord Initiative (EAI), a non-political organization based in Benin, and one of the key players in the emergence of Godwin Obaseki as candidate of APC in the 2015 Edo state governorship election. In this interview with Francis Onoiribholo, he spoke on the the crisis presently rocking the Edo State APC. Excerpts: How do you see the election of your President Hon. Dennis Idahosa to the House of Representatives?
We give thanks to God and we believe that as the president of Edo Accord Initiative, a disciplined group
that has been in existence for many years now, he will prove himself and make a difference in the lives of the people of Ovia Federal Constituency. As a group that played a vital role in the election of Governor Godwin Obaseki, what is your group’s position in the present political crisis rocking the state?
We have made our position known on the state affairs and the crises presently rocking the state after an emergency stake holders meeting called upon by the leadership of the group in Benin City.
As the vice chairman of the group, I and other members of the association in our various capacity and as stakeholders in Edo project, we believed we can no longer keep quiet anymore and from our findings, we discovered and believed that the sparks igniting the fire within the party will die naturally because some persons who have selfish-interest not actualised are hiding under a perceived misunderstanding between the APC National chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and Obaseki to aggravate the crisis.
After an emergency meeting recently, we called on our leaders Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Godwin Obaseki, to shelve whatever differences some mischief makers are trying to create within the two of them and stop wasting energy on issues that would on the long run be detrimental to the benefit of the party and Edo people. They both meant well for Edo and would at every given instances ensure the best for its people, it is best that they understand that the recent development in the state is not in any way their making but that of individuals poised to benefit from the quarrel they intend to create. What will you say about the thuggery and godfatherism in the state?
Gov. Obaseki has never been known for patronage of thugs as a means to an end and will not in any way start now. Neither will Oshiomhole who laid the foundation for the democracy and government which the Edo people now enjoy to be involved in uprooting and destroying the foundation which he labored and fought so hard to build. He championed the end of godfatherism in Edo state and crested the one man one vote insignia in the annals of Edo Politics. Comrade Oshiomhole in his wisdom made the path straight and cleared the hedges that Obaseki would face as a governor, in his fight against what would
have now posed a challenge to Obaseki a formidable foundation of progress for anybody after him to build on. As a body, what is your general advice to those beating the drums of war and Edo people?
Edo Accord Initiative is calling on all those behind the crisis, to please for the good of Edo state, quit their self-centered pursuit and personal aggrandisement and for the sake of the greater good of the
Edo people shelve their quest for power and recognition and tow a line of peace to avoid a sorry situation where the opposition will have an upper hand in the fight they are presently trying to create, for our elders have a saying that “where brothers fight themselves to death, strangers inherits their inheritance. .The APC as a party must learn to avoid washing her dirty linens in public as the idea of always running to the TV, print and social media on every issues that crops up will only be arming the opposition with the needed tool to fight and dislodge her of power. 