Chief Emmanuel Okumagba is a PDP chieftain from Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State. He is a former chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). In this interview, he spoke on Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s achievenennts and expectations from him as he begins a second term. Excerpts: Governor Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa just clocked 60 years , how would you describe him? Okowa at 60 is celebrating his diamond jubilee on earth. By his achievements, after leaving the University, he went through the political ranks from his local government as chairman through to the state government where he became a commissioner. From being a Commissioner, he became the Secretary to the State government. And from there to become a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. To be sincere with you, anyone who can be Secretary to the State government for a tenure as was his case, be rest assured that he can rule the state because that is the fulcrum on which the governance of the state is oiled.
From there, he went to the Nigerian Senate where he met with Nigerians from all walks of life and that was another molding block in his political career. Having done that, he came back to be governor of the state. Of all the governors that had ruled Delta State, he is the only one who amassed an overwhelming political experience before becoming the governor of the state and that has reflected in the governance of the state vis a vis his other colleagues even in the state.
Ibori who was our boss including the governor’s boss did not have the kind of experience of governance as it were but he also performed creditably well because there were the resources with which he operated. And one good thing which Ibori did was to put square pegs in square holes and so, he was never too bothered about how well they were doing things by way of having to supervise everybody.
Okowa has all the experience of governance. And that was why with lesser financial resources he has been a very good manager. At 60, age is still on his side. I believe he will return to national politics in maybe, other capacities that you can never imagine now. This is because governance is all about experience. I told a few persons, those who cared to listen, that Ogboru is not a match to Okowa. Ogboru’s antecedent was that he was an iced fish merchant.
And I don’t think he was doing very well. So, Okowa attaining the diamond age of 60 is the beauty of a jubilee to attain. God in His infinite mercy, we congratulate him for attaining this age in good health (because it takes a healthy man to rule Delta State).Delta State is a microcosm of the nation, Nigeria. We are with him in prayer as he continues in the second tenure; he will do even better for a stronger Delta State as he has promised. How will you rate him in terms of infrastructural developments? I will always fall back on my community. Maybe, I should remind you that Okumagba layout is the best planned layout in the former Bendel State. All the roads in the layout have been earthen roads. But just for his short first four years tenure, you will marvel if you go into Okumagba layout, the number of streets Okowa has tarred, for us with drains. Typical is the Okere-Urhobo area with its headquarters at Oto-Orere.
I grew up as a child to see that the place was mainly earthen roads. It was his tenure that the seven axial roads were all tarred and commissioned the same day with three other adjoining roads in Okumagba layout, Akemu, Dederu andEjinyere, off Ojabugbe road. They were all commissioned the same day – ten streets. That is unparalleled in the annals of the Okere-Urhobo people. I also know that the Agbarha Urhobo area of Warri has been taken care of.
Even the Itsekiri area are benefitting. Go to Ubeji, Ugbuwangwe, and other areas. Go around the entire Warri, streets are springing up well tarred. These are the dividends provided for Deltans, especially Warri people. I have also traversed the whole of Delta State when I was the Special Adviser for projects monitoring. I was alone on that job which now several directors monitor. I know how Delta State looked like then and how it is today.
That is the capacity of the man, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa who is celebrating his 60th birthday. He has shown capacity. No wonder they refer to him as Road Master. Apart from road construction, there is so much of youth empowerment going on with his SMART Agenda and what have you. We are lucky to have Chief, Sir Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa, as our governor. We congratulate him with all the jubilation, praying that the good Lord will give him good health that this celebration will linger on as he is going to celebrate many more birthdays ahead. You have just recounted his sterling performance in the first four years. In which specific areas are you expecting him to place emphasis on this second tenure? Well, he has started the Asaba Capital Development Authority. Before now the drains at Asaba were badly constructed and poorly drained. Today, he has a masterplan which empties water into the River Niger. I can attest to the fact that during his town hall meeting last year at the Federal Government College, Warri, some of us made presentations bordering on the status of the town, Warri, one of the 26 provincial headquarters in Nigeria. Today, it is the only provincial headquarters that is not a state capital. So, we raised the issue as Warri people at the town hall meeting, that His Excellency should make a deliberate effort and provide an annual fund to elevate Warri to somewhere near the status of a state capital that it could not get. We also made it clear that Warri problem borders on lack of drains which make it impossible for the roads constructed to stay.
Several other requests were made to him, but I recount this because I was at the vanguard of that request. Behold, at the end of the questions and answers session, while responding, he made a pledge, an effective promise, that what we have requested shall be considered. I also made a graphical presentation of the waterways that have now been blocked by buildings, debris and what have you. I traced them because I’m a native, I know the terrain. I think I must have impressed him by my description of the place. And while responding, he did say, yes, something will be done and that the Asaba situation was one in which so much has been wasted until he decided to provide a consultant to do a proper survey of the place and made recommendations, and that he was going to do a similar thing in Warri given the scenario captured by us to him. There have been complaints from some quarters since he commenced the appointment of his commissioners to the effect that he is recycling the old cabinet members with little consideration to new blood, especially youths who perhaps contributed to his return. What is your take on that?
You see, any governor worth his salt, especially an experienced one like Governor Okowa, knows that when you have a square hole, you have to find a square peg that will fit in. He worked with several Commissioners, he did ndot pick all of them. He is picking those he believes in and whose capacities he trusts. If you want to flood the place with neophytes, people who have no experience, then you are also nailing your coffin of poor performance. So, taking key players in his last regime is a deliberate attempt to ensure continuity of his excellent performance. 