LAGOS – For members of the African Action Congress (AAC), Monday July 15, 2019 was a remarkable day. That day, they gathered at the party’s secretariat in Ikeja, Lagos, to solidarise with and reaffirm their loyalty to Mr. Omoyele Sowore, their National Chairman and Presidential candidate in the 2019 election. A Federal High Court in Abuja had on Friday, July 13, 2019 removed Sowore and his deputy, Malcom Fabiyi as the party’s helmsmen and ruled that Leonard Nzenwa, the party’s secretary, would now be the Acting Chairman. The presiding judge, Justice Inyang Ekwo, also ordered Sowore and Fabiyi, should stop parading themselves as National and Deputy National Chairman, respectively. In the order granted by the court, Sowore and Fabiyi were also restrained from further exercising any power or function relating to the offices they were occupying pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. Sowore was accused of failing to comply with the statutory requirements of the party to hold NEC meetings. The activist was also accused of misappropriation of funds, He has denied any wrongdoing. However, the reaffirmation of Sowore as the party’s helmsman was the main event that featured at the party’s rally cum world press conference summoned by the AAC Lagos State chairman, Comrade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi. The event attracted thousands of the party’s faithful in Lagos as well as its executives from parts of the country, who came to speak out against what they termed “miscarriage of justice” against their leader by the court through “judicial technicalities”. Those who came with large delegation included the party’s chairmen from Ogun, Cross River, and Kwara states among others as well as the party’s national treasurer, national youth chairman, and the head of Sowore Campus Unit as well as Ijora Badia unit in Lagos. Ajayi, the AAC Lagos State chairman, in his speech, stated that the party members in Lagos and elsewhere knew no other leader that Sowore as the party’s National Chairman, and Malcom Fabiyi, as the Vice Chairman, adding that the members would remain loyal to the duo come rain, come shine. He said the party and the members would have nothing to do with Leonard Nzenwa, who the court ruled was the party’s Acting Chairman, describing him as a usurper, stressing that the AAC was not built in the courts, but in the public and as such, the judgment of the Federal High Court would not stand. According to Ajayi, “The judgment is copiously based, neither on logic, nor on merit, but on some technical jargons that are unfounded. We say that the judgment is an absolute and further decimation of the reputation of the judiciary. It is ‘cut and sew’ judgments like this that gives President Buhari and the APC the excuses to be attacking the judiciary indiscriminately.” He maintained that if Nzenwa planned to lead a party, he should set up his own and leave AAC alone, as the members would not have anything to do with him in the party, even as reiterated that machinery had been set up for the party to appeal against the judgment. In his solidarity message from his members, Agba Jalingo, the AAC chairman in Cross Rivers State, said their chapter stood in solidarity with Sowore and rejected the leadership of Nzenwa. “He does not have the capacity, even his language is incoherent. In AAC, we are very intelligent,” he said. Please, go and tell Leonard that none of them should come near Cross River State, we do not know Leonard, and the person we elected is Omoyele Sowore. We cannot follow a leader we do not know.” Ahmed Buhari and Adesina Afolabi, the party chairmen in Kwara and Ogun respectively, also rejected Nzenwa as their leader. Pastor Sam Ajeigbe, the AAC national treasurer, said Sowore did not spend “any dime from the money belonging to the party. In fact, he moved money from his personal campaign account to use for the party.” However, the crowd went into frenzy when Sowore appeared from inside one of the rooms in the complex. They clapped sang and danced, while their embattled leader joined them. In his speech, which was punctuated with shouts and applause, Sowore, vowed to challenge his removal, described his ouster by the court as judicial recklessness and an attack on his party, which must not go unchallenged. Sowore, Founder of the popular online medium, Sahara Reporters, also joined the members in a solidarity march in parts of Ikeja, to denounce the court ruling against him and his deputy. He, however, alleged that some forces did not want him to appeal the ruling, lamenting that rather than the court registrar to release a copy of the court judgment to his lawyers to enable him file an appeal against the ruling immediately, the official said it would not be ready until October. Sowore alleged that the ruling against him was the handiwork of the All Progressives Congress (APC) controlled Federal Government, which he said had connived with the judiciary to stop him from leading a revolution that would usher in a better Nigeria for the citizens, who he insisted had been languishing in poverty due to mis-governance. He said that the AAC was rebranding, as could be seen in the red berets being adorned by the party members, even as he described his party as a militant organisation set up for the liberation of the Nigerian people. Sowore said: “We have rebranded the party as a militant organisation to liberate Nigerians. We are a revolutionary minded party, the first of its kind in this part of Africa. We won’t allow them to stop us. “Those who did not vote for us in the last elections are regretting. Government should stop fighting small people. They should stop fighting bread sellers. They should be fighting kidnappers.” He lamented that it took the killing of Mrs. Funke Olakurin, daughter of Pa Reuben Fasoranti, the Afenifere leader for President Muhammadu Buhari to dispatch Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to South West to promise that the Federal Government would rescue the nation. Sowore stated: “We went to Zamfara, Taraba, Katsina and told them that they would continue to be killed. The killings will continue. Let us liberate ourselves so that we will live.” He maintained that under the current administration, the nation’s Judiciary had sold out, alleging that justice was being sold to the highest bidder adding, “Judges are members of the society. Justice will come when people seek for justice. If you have a case, you engage two lawyers, one who knows the law and the other, who knows the judge.” Meanwhile, our correspondent gathered that AAC had been working on an alliance with like-minded political parties and groups in the avowed determination to liberate the Nigerian masses from bad governance and squalor. Feelers from the rally indicated that, already, consultations had been going on among some parties, including Labour Party (LP) and National Conscience Party (NCP) as well as some groups, who had been meeting with alliance stakeholders, while a lot of grounds had been covered to ensure that they work together for future elections. Confirming this, Ajayi, the Lagos AAC chairman, stated that the alliance had already come up with a new name, Coalition For Revolution, revealing that part of LP, NCP, and few other radical parties and groups were members. Ajayi said: “We are talking with other parties and groups for the alliance. We meet regularly. It is a national affair as the meetings of groups and parties enjoy attendance from Lagos, Kaduna, Oyo, Osun and Edo states. As time goes on, many other states will join.” He said the aim of the alliance was to ensure a better future for Nigerians as the citizens had been passing through hard times under the current administration, adding the time had come to change the status quo, as the time of governance Nigerians had been getting was not what they bargained for. He continued: “Yes, we will align with like-minded parties and groups to get a better Nigeria. We need political parties and groups that have the welfare of the people at heart. The time has come for Nigerians to take back what belongs to them. What belongs to us as Nigerians is Nigeria. We must take it back from the present ruling class and hand it back to the people, where it belongs. Nigeria belongs to the people of Nigerians, not the ruling class. “We need to come together and unite to change the ruling class if the country will move forward. The solution of the country’s problems is not in the hands of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). “The two parties cannot give what they do not have. The corrupt cannot fight corruption and cannot eradicate poverty. It pays them better if the masses continue to languish in poverty. They do not have the masses at heart.”