OSOGBO – There is intense lobbying and politiking in Osun State over who becomes member of the State Executive Council (SEC) expected to be unfolded any moment from now. Investigations conducted by Independent Newspaper revealed that the moves became more pronounced shortly after the Supreme Court in Abuja affirmed the electoral victory of Governor Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola as the winner of the September 22 governorship election and subsequent rerun election held on September 27 2018. It was gathered that several names have been submitted to GovernorOyetolatobeincluded in the list of commissionership and special advisers expected to be forwarded to the State House of Assembly soon. The state is current being administered by Governor Oyetola; his deputy, Benedict Alabi; Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chief Of Staff to the Governor and some few individuals appointed to oversee the affairs of some ministries in the state. It was further revealed that some political leaders, traditional rulers, religious groups, associations, pressure groups, pro-democracy groups and influential individuals have submitted one or two names to Governor Oyetola for consideration as members of new cabinet in the state. It was learnt that those who lost out in the party’s primary held last year formed bulk of the names submitted to Governor Oyetola by party’s leadership. A number of names also emanated from Oyetola’s predecessor in office, Rauf Aregbesola, who was said to have assured those on his list that they would definitely be considered when the names are compiled and submitted to state Assembly. Some of former political aides and cabinet members who served under Aregbesola but still have interest in the plum job have embarked on image laundering for Oyetola to appear good before him for re-appointment. Reliable source, however, told Independent Newspapers that Oyetola may not accede to all names suggested by his predecessor in office but insisted to pick only those he knows can do the job diligently with all loyalty and determination. As at the time of filling this report, about three speculated list of names of new cabinet members were in circulation as those that had made the final list but the state government continued to keep mute on the speculated lists in the circulation. When contacted on phone, the Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy of the ruling party, Kunle Oyatomi, denied all the lists in circulation, saying Governor Oyetola has not released any names as members of his cabinet.He said they are all fake names.