DAMATURU – As part of efforts to empower citizen groups to participate in decision making process in selected sectors of health, education and nutrition, the Partnership to Engage Reform and Learn (PERL) organised a meeting in Dutse, Jigawa State. Selected Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), Media, Health Experts, Academicians and MDAs from Yobe State participated and contributed to ensuring that the citizens get improved service delivery on health, education and water. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network In his welcome address, Musa Waziri Kollere, PERL Facilitator in Yobe State, told the participants that the objectives of the meeting was “to involve a systematic process through which community members provide feedback about services to the providers by sustaining accountability systems and not establish parallel system. “Citizens groups present the three performance tracking tools to hold duty delivered on health, education and water accountable, to synergize with MDAs of the three sectors and plan for improved service delivery, provider and community responsibilities outlined.” To strengthen the use of performance tracking tools to Improve service delivery and utilisation.” He further gave an overview on the role of citizens in budget preparation, appropriation, implementation, oversight and reporting, while Baba Kuchichi of the Voice and Accountability Platform lectured on evaluation on the implementation of the citizens demand charter. Mu’azu Modu, a facilitator, anchored the presentation of the report on the assignment given in respect of Yobe North senatorial zone on citizens’ report card project in respect of education. Yobe South senatorial zone Social audit report project on Water was delivered by Ishaku Adamu also, a facilitator of the Voice and Accountability platform. Waziri Musa of PERL presented the report on the assignment for Yobe North senatorial zone, which was a community score card on health project. Speaking on behalf of the media participants, chairman, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Yobe State Council, Yusuf Alhaji Isa, thanked PERL for carrying the media along in its activities, adding,  “Our involvement in the trainings would improve our capacity, strengths and enable us serve the society better. “This is an enlightening experience. This has given the us the opportunity to discuss and ask questions.”