Ariana Grande and Kim Kardashian have spoken out amid claims that celebrity photographer Marcus Hyde bribed model Sunnaya Nash for nude portraits. After Sunnaya shared several messages allegedly exchanged between her and Marcus in an Instagram post which has since been taken down, she claimed he asked her for a nude photo shoot in exchange for free photos. When the model said she wasn’t comfortable posing completely nude, Hyde allegedly said that she would have to pay him $2000 (£1600) for the shoot. Ariana, who has previously celebrated women’s rights as Ari-inspired signs took over London’s Women’s March, took to Instagram to speak out on the situation, writing: ‘Dear models/artists in LA / anywhere. I have just read some shocking and really heartbreaking stories. I hate that this is a conversation.’ The 26-year-old added: ‘Please do not shoot with photographers who make you uncomfortable or make you feel like you need to take your clothes off if you don’t want to. ‘If you want to, sick. But if you don’t, please don’t. If they tell you you have to pay more money if you’re clothed that’s f**ked and I’m sorry that has happened to you. I promise there are so many respectful, nice, talented photographers out there.’ The star urged her followers to ‘look out for one another’ and share their positive experiences with other photographers. Meanwhile, Kim Kardashian revealed she used to work with Hyde, as she spoke out on the ‘inexcusable behavior’. ‘I have been reading all of the messages and stories from women regarding inappropriate and inexcusable behavior of a photographer that I have worked with in the past,’ she wrote on her Instagram Stories. ‘My own experiences have always been professional and I am deeply shocked, saddened and disappointed to learn that other women have had very different experiences. ‘I stand in full support of every woman’s right to not be harassed (sic), asked, or pressured to do anything they are not comfortable with. ‘We cannot allow this type of behavior to go unnoticed and I applaud those who speak out.’ Since Sunnaya spoke out, models and artists have been sharing their own stories about other, unnamed photographers, which the model has been sharing anonymously on her Instagram profile. In a more recent post, she thanked followers for their support. ‘Hi everyone, I just want to say thank you for all the love and support I’ve received these last two days,’ she wrote. ‘I’m getting a lot of attention and thank yous for this, but the real credit deserves to be given to the girls who were brave enough to come forward and share their stories with me.’