Abeokuta – Com. Akeem Lasisi, the Ogun State chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools (ASUSS), has called on the state government to re-introduce Parent-Teacher Association levy in all public schools in the state.
According to Lasisi, who bared his mind while speaking with newsmen in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, the step, if adopted by the Dapo Abiodun government, would check the nonchalant attitude of parents towards the education of their children.
He said with this, members of the PTA would put school management on their toes, saying that they would not allow their monies to go down the drain.
He added that the PTA executives would be able to attend to some projects in schools, including leaking of roofs on time, cooperating with the school authority to maintain discipline and employing teachers where there were no teachers in some subjects.
He explained that as a result of the free education policy of the previous administration, PTAs were no longer involved in the running of the schools, no teachers in the school, schools were no longer funded, indiscipline was on the rise, teachers as well as parents were complaining.
Lasis said, “against the UNESCO policy of 35 and 40 students in senior and junior classes respectively to a teacher, a teacher is now teaching more than 150 students in a class, positing that this will not improve unless Governor Abiodun, walk his talk pointing out that teachers continue to transfer their services to other parastals, they continue to die naturally, they retire from the service and since eight years ago, there is no replacement for them.
“We are of the opinion that PTA has a major role to play in the educational development of our children. When you look at our schools, those schools where PTA members are very sound, there is fewer problems in those schools because the PTA would be cooperating with the school authority to maintain discipline, to employ teachers where there are no teachers in some subjects.”
“We have witnessed in the past where PTA employed more than 50% of the teachers in a school. But now PTA cannot do that again because PTA levy has become optional. We are saying government should make PTA levy compulsory as much as parents do buy recharge card, all parents should be able to pay N1,000 per term. However, free education is the best if government makes it their area of special interest”.
“No sane person will object free education as much government is determine to run it optimally, it is a matter of priority after all, if not for free education some of us might not be here today, in fact the whole of Western Region will not be ahead of other regions today.
“I was one of the beneficiaries of free education policy by late Olabisi Onabanjo in the early eighties. We knew what we enjoyed; furniture in the school, textbooks for pupils, and adequate teachers in the classrooms unlike what is obtainable now”.