Lagos – The seventh second round match of the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) comes up on Monday (today) at Suez Stadium, Suez by 5pm between the Eagles of Mali and the Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire. Cote d’Ivoire have some brilliant attacking talents in their squad and could be a match for anyone at this ongoing AFCON in Egypt. They showed some of that against the Brave Warriors of Namibia as they scored four goals to secure their spot in the knockout stages. Wilfried Zaha was finally given a start but with plenty of competition for places in attack, getting the team selection right could be key. While they enjoyed a more successful group stage, the Elephants can click into gear and progress to the last-eight if they put their acts together. The Eagles of Mali were the standout team of Group E during the preliminary stage of the tournament as they topped the group with seven points, four points more than second-placed, the Carthage Eagles  of Tunisia after they won their final game against the Palancas Negras of Angola. With qualification secure, Mali opted to make eight changes to their starting XI and despite all of the upheaval, they were able to claim a 1-0 win thanks to Amadou Haidara’s first half effort. The Malians will need to improve in this knockout stage match against the Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire despite their solid group campaign but with the majority of their first-choice side receiving a well-earned rest, they should come back refreshed for this last 16 clash. The Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire on the other hand secured the win they needed to progress to the last 16 of the Africa Cup of Nations as they ran out big winners over Namibia but were given a scare in their Group D contest. The pressure was on the Elephants to get the win but their nerves were eased when Max Gradel sent put his side ahead before the break and despite doubling their lead through an own goal, the Brave Warriors of Namibia clawed a goal back before late goals from Wilfried Zaha and Maxwell Cornet sealed the victory. That win ensured the Elephants finished second in their group and will need to improve on an inconsistent effort in the group stage but having made his first start of the tournament, Wilfried Zaha will be hoping to retain his place and help lead his team to the latter stages. There is no doubt this encounter will definitely be the survival of the fittest judging from the performance of the two teams so far in this tournament.