The former Minister of Transportation, Rt. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi has said that Nigeria currently losses $25billion annually to illegal oil bunkering and insecurity on the nation’s waterways. Amaechi made the disclosure at a reception organised by Team Maritime Nigeria to celebrate his achievements as Minister, in Lagos. He said the $25 billion worth illegal economic activities on Nigerian waters was a result of illicit oil bunkering. He emphasised that if the $25 billion lost to illegal activities on the economy of the country are put back into the nation’s economy, Nigeria would be richer as a country. According to him, if the incoming Minister of Transport is not strong, the security contract would not fly. He, however, said that during his tenure, “as the minister of transport, the ministry of transportation was pushing for security contract of $195 million to tackle insecurity on the nation’s waters which could not fly”. Speaking further on the illegal activities, the former minister specifically said: “Americans spoke to me when I was a Governor, and they said Nigeria bunkerers are the largest seventh producers of oil in Africa, but there is illegal bunkering. They came to me that the former President Obama sent them in respect of the meeting with President Goodluck Jonathan. “We are to tell you that President Goodluck Jonathan had a meeting with President Obama and told him that US marine should come and protect the nation’s oil.” I asked which oil? And they said we are the seventh largest producers in terms of bunkering.” “I opened my drawer; I gave them the letter the CBN governor wrote to President Goodluck Jonathan that $49 billion was missing from NNPC.” “When I showed them, they were surprised, and I said forget this $7billion, they covered the $49billion”. “The point I am making is our bunkerers are the seventh largest producers with $7 billion. Look at those who escort vessels and those who escort them to the platform, when they complete that, all illegal economies is between $20 to $25 billion, if we put that in our economy, Nigeria will be rich,” he added. He continued: “What is the solution? I told Dakuku look at the solution whether we go to sleep or not, this is still our water. When I proffered the solution, it took a tedious process to get approval from the cabinet of President. After we got approval, stringent interest began to fight it, they fought it for two years. We went to the president, it was cancelled and we wrote again, it was cancelled. “We went to President and Vice President, and they asked that if Amaechi’s solution is not the solution, what is the solution? We wrote again for two years before the President said Amaechi, I think you should go ahead, we will achieve good result. We have proceeded and we have trained our security now that will man the water and I hope it will be successful.” 