LAGOS – The Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has commended the Nigeria Customs Service on its effort at waging war against illegal smuggling in regulated and banned drugs into the country. The Governor gave this commendation at Oke-Diya, Shagamu, of the State yesterday, during the destruction of 58 containers of drugs by a joint task force comprising of Customs and the National Agency For Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), headed by Aminu Dahiru, an Assistant Controller-General of Customs. Representatives of the State Ministry of health, NAFDAC, Customs, NESREA Commissioner of Police, Ogun State Command, NSDC Ogun State command, Ministry of Environment, Ogun State, witnessed the destruction where the Governor said he was particularly happy with the exercise of destroying drugs seized by the Nigeria Customs Service. He congratulated the Nigeria Customs Service and NAFDAC, “especially the team responsible for the seizures of these drugs. “When you said Tramadol, you did not mention whether you are destroying Tramadol 50 milligram, Tramadol 100 milligram or Tramadol 1000 milligram or 225 milligram. When we were in the medical school, what we know is tramadol 50 milligram and 100 milligram. But what we have in our society today is tramadol 1000 milligram. And that should tell you that only two of that is enough to send anybody to the psychiatric hospital. I know because we have been doing a lot of work, at the Ogun State Drug Control Committee in collaboration with NDLEA. So this is a Yeoman’s job that is being done by Customs, NAFDAC and NDLEA. “I want to assure you that the Ogun State Government has a zero tolerant for counterfeit, unwholesome drugs and substances of abuse. In fact, if you know the kind of substances that are abused today, you will begin to pray for this country. The future of our youth is in grave danger”, he lamented. He said that the Ogun State government through the state drugs and control agencies has been going through nooks and crannies of the state to sensitize citizen, especially the youths, in the tertiary institutions, secondary schools, on the dangers that are inherent in taking these substances.