Crouch, 38, signed a short-term contract with the Clarets in January after spending seven years with Stoke, but is now a free agent ahead of the 2019/20 campaign, According to Talksport.com. And the ex-England striker, speaking to talkSPORT, has admitted he is not yet sure whether he will hang up his boots – but joked he has texted Frank Lampard about a potential bid to play at Chelsea. “I’ve been playing football for 23 years, day in, day out. But I am 38 years old now and 29 next year,” the former Spurs and Liverpool forward told Drivetime. “I feel like I’ve had a really good innings. If it’s not to be with football this year, it’s not to be. “But I still love the game and I will be in and around it, if not playing it this year. “I enjoyed my football again at Burnley and who knows what the future is going to hold for me but I’m enjoying the time off at the moment. “A lot depends on Gareth Bale and whether he leaves Real Madrid, as there will be a potential opening there! I’ve also texted Frank [Lampard] at Chelsea to let him know I’m available!” Crouch also cast some light on his career at Stoke and the failures that led to the club getting relegated to the Championship. The Potters were an established top-flight side under Mark Hughes, regularly finishing inside the top 10. But it all came crashing down in the 2017/18 season when they were relegated to the Championship. Crouch said: “Stoke is the prime example of where fans and people wanted a different brand of football. We finished ninth three seasons in a row in the Premier League. “We were tough to beat. People were coming to the Bet365 Stadium and not wanting to be there. The cold wet windy night in Stoke on a Tuesday was a thing. “We tried to change for the better. We started passing and got different players in. “We lost an identity that was Stoke. If you look at it now I felt like every season we would lose a character and bring in the wrong type of character. “With every character you lose, you lose something. At around Christmas time we were getting found out year in year out. “We escaped a couple of times but if you keep doing that and trying to play attractive football and bringing in continental type players and it culminated in relegation.”