Ado-Ekiti  – The police have been charged to up their game in the fight against killings and kidnappings in the Ekiti State.
A former Director General, Buhari/Osinbajo Campaign Council in Ekiti State, Dr. Olusegun Osinkolu, gave the charge in a statement made available to journalists in Ado-Ekiti
He advised the Commissioner of Police, Mr Asuquo Amba, to rejig the state’s police apparatus to be able to tame the rampaging killers.
He charged the police and other security agencies to fish out killers masquerading as herdsmen and perpetrating evil in some parts of the state.
Condemning the killing in a statement in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday, Osinkolu stated that death of the innocent people could affect the investment drive of Governor Kayode Fayemi’s government.
Osinkolu applauded Fayemi on the assurance given to the apprehensive Ekiti residents that no stranger will be allowed to take over any portion of land in any part of the state.
“Apart from the fact that the police must up their game, they must be ready to work with the local hunters, who understand the terrain and these evil forests where the killers are hiding.
“It was sad and disheartening to see innocent residents being killed, particularly an undergraduate of a university by gunmen hiding in our forests.
“So, the police must work with all interested members of society, particularly the local hunters to be able to secure the lives and property of our citizens.
“The public must also be aware of the fact that the police can’t do this arduous task alone, we must be ready to give them sufficient information they can act upon for these blood suckers to be flushed out of our state,” he said.
The APC stalwart saluted the courage exhibited by Fayemi by issuing a warning to those allegedly plotting to forcefully arrogate Ekiti land to themselves to bury such thought.
“This shows that Ekiti had declared war on these killers and all of us must key into the agenda of making Ekiti secure through our contributions to the newly formed Ekiti State Security Trust Fund,” he said.
Osinkolu appealed to traditional rulers to mobilise their people on the need to be vigilant and report strange faces to the security agencies for prompt action.