The Managing Director of the Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc Mr. Basil Agboarumi has said that the introduction of the International Air Transport Association’s (IATA) Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO) by ground handling companies has enhanced audit sharing in the sub-sector.
Agboarumi, also hinted that ISAGO plays critical roles in safety in ground handling and airline operations in Africa.
A statement by Vanessa Uansohia, the Manager, Corporate Communications, SAHCO, stated that Agboarumi made the speech in faraway Morocco during the just concluded maiden edition of the GSE & RAMP-OPS Africa organised in the North African country.
The statement hinted that Agboarumi was one of the keynote speakers at the event.
Agboarumi insisted that ISAGO had driven down the number of redundant audits and also improved operational safety, ensured standardisation across multiple operations, reduce incidents in ground operations and enhance members’ image and reputation.
He explained further that apart from ensuring safety in aviation sector, ISAGO’s benefits included promotion of efficiency and quality service delivery through innovations and technology, reduced lowering operational cost by eliminating multiple audits, which enables ground operators and airlines to focus their resources on operations, and ensured implementation of Safety Management System (SMS) in operations.
While speaking on the topic titled: ‘Effectiveness of ISAGO in Managing Ground Handling Services for Airlines Benefits for Africa’, the SAHCO boss said ISAGO audit had eliminated multiple audits per Ground Service Provider (GSP) and individual airline auditing systems, increased safety in aviation by ensuring standards, which had led to reduction in air accidents, unlike what was obtainable before the existence of ISAGO.
Paul Drever, the Chairman of the Conference, said the GSE AND RAMP -OPS conference was organised to bring together the buyers, users and manufacturers of GSE to explore how to drive the sector forward.
He went on to discuss the operational challenges in airside operations in Africa and how GSE was used in the continent and how it could be improved upon.
The statement added: “The event, which took place in Sofitel, Casablanca had other speakers from across the world, amongst whom were David Burgess of Swissport, Tafadzawa Zaza of Air Zimbabwe, Dimitrios Sanos of IATA, Danny Vranckx of Aviaco GSE, while there were exhibitors of world known GSE’s ,such as Air Marrel, Blissfox, Mulag, Transtec Overseas amongst others.
“Various topics were comprehensively addressed by different speakers at the conference. They include; ‘How Portable water reduces fuel consumption,’ ‘The benefits of an alliance and how small changes can bring rewards,’ ‘Ramp of the future, Leveraging Technology to improve airside supervision and safety,’ and ‘Increasing operational safety efficiency through aviation training,’ among others.