ADO-EKITI – The people of Eporo in Emure Local Government Area of the Ekiti State rolled out drums to celebrate restoration of light to the community after three decades of darkness. The project, which was an initiative of a youth corps member, Gideon Adedeji, a graduate of Physics and Electronics, was financed by the Chief Whip of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Olubunmi Adelugba. In her speech at the occasion, the lawmaker called on the Federal Government to increase the frontiers of its partnership with private bodies for more investments in power sector. She also admonished Nigerians to always turn their difficulties to opportunities by thinking outside the box in finding solutions to societal problems experienced in their various communities. The lawmaker noted that youths must rise to the task of community development for national growth. The state Chief Whip explained that “I decided to finance this project considering its importance to the residents, and as part of the fulfillment of my campaign promises to always embark on the needful and needed life transforming projects, as well as supporting youth-oriented programmes”, she said. The initiator of the community Street Light Project, Adedeji, submitted that the move was informed by some incidents of rape and robbery perpetrated by night marauders. He applauded Adelugba for accepting the proposal and sponsoring the project, which he said it, would enhance the level of security in the town. The NYSC state coordinator, Emmanuella Opongete, who was represented by an Assistant Director Community Development Service, Tonye Anabue, thanked the state Governor, John Kayode Fayemi, for always supporting corps members in the state. She commended the Emure legislator for paying the bills incurred in the course of executing the project. Some community leaders and residents of Eporo, Deborah Abdulazeez, Ibrahim Kareem and Opeyemi Adewale, expressed gratitude to the facilitators, noting that it would go a long way in curbing crimes in the town.