Ado Ekiti – President Muhammadu Buhari has been admonished to adopt a new strategy in confronting the growing insecurity in the country. Retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, (AIG Tunde Oginsakin who gave this admonition opined that no nation had been successfully tackled these twin evils without looking inward. He, therefore,  urged the Federal Government to urgently consider state policing alongside community policing to combat the security challenge. He made the remarks at the fifth edition of a traditional festival tagged Odun Oba in Ikere, his hometown. The festival was a celebration of the town’s monarch, Ogoga of Ikere, Oba  Samuel Adu Alagbado and the heritage of the people. “The FG is doing its very best to ensure the safety of lives and property in the country. All the security apparatus are on their toes. The IG is equal to the task and doing his best to ensure the safety of lives and property. Within a short period, the challenge of insecurity will be a thing of the past. I urge Nigerians to rest assured that the security will soon be a thing of the past. “We are already going to community policing in the country. I am happy that there will also soon be the state police. State policing ought to have happened yesterday but I am sure the Federal Government would bring it. “The best way to solve the guarrela war posing security issue in the country is to use state police. So, community policing should come and state police should follow.” Describing Odun Oba, he said: ” The program is a celebration of the progress and unity that is in Ikere and I am happy to be part of it. Since the King, Oba Adu Alagbado, Agririlala 11 of Ikere Kingdom, came on board, we have been having progress and prosperity. The Ogoga of Ikere, who appreciated the admirable achievement of the illustrious sons and daughters of the town, urged them to allow unity, peace and progressed to reign, he said: “We must eschew hatred and bitterness in our politics. We cannot all be in one party but our goals and objectives for Ikere, our common heritage must be for her progress. Therefore we must keep that in mind regardless of party loyalty. May there be love and peace among us. “While we commend families who are known for good deeds that have brought glory to Ikere kingdom, do not let your family be known to bring rebuke or shame to Ikere. Guide them to become professors, Honourable, and achievers and not thugs and Yahoo fraudsters.” On the allegation that the death of a commercial driver in the town a few days ago was allegedly caused by a procession of Ipekele Ayaba from the Ogoga palace, the monarch, through the Secretary to Ogoga-in-Council, Chief James Ayidele Alonge, debunked the reports, saying that the procession had already concluded its activity under police protection before news frittered in that a certain Okada man was killed. He therefore urged the law enforcement agents to fish out the real persons behind the killing of the deceased and urged the populace to discountenance the reports that linked the tragic incident to his palace.