Abel Peter Diah is the Speaker, Taraba State House of Assembly. He has been the Speaker since the 7th Assembly. In this interview with journalists, including Janet Nyajoi Audu, he unveiled the 9th Assembly’s agenda and other issues. Excerpts: The 8th Assembly under your leadership was hitch free unlike other houses of Assembly. What was the magic, or how were you able to sustain the 8th Assembly?
Let me first and foremost appreciate you members of the press, you are part of the magic in Taraba State because whatever you report here is balanced, you have been fair to the house all this while, each time you report you have been giving all fair hearing before publishing your reports,
Let me answer your question proper, if you really want to succeed as a presiding officer in the house of Assembly, the first thing to guide you is to always remember that you are leading people of your equal, you are not their boss, when you know this, you won’t have problem with them but when you want to boss them, that is where your problem will start, you should count it a rare privilege when people that are elected along- side with you says come and lead us, I thinks it’s a very great honour, so the secret is for me living with the consciousness that we are all equal and we represent our various constituencies also. I also tried my best by also operating an open door policy giving listening ears to all my colleagues relating very well with them even at personal levels, official capacity, in fact I am always there for my colleagues and to me that is the most important thing. So leading them with the consciousness that we are equal was the secret and relating well with the Journalists was the magic. How do you feel when your colleagues nominated you as Speaker for the third time?
Yes, I feel highly honoured and I am humbled with his kind of privilege. It’s an opportunity for me to show case more quality of leadership that I am endowed with, I also feel this is a trust that I can’t betray and promise them the best leadership I know I can exhibit within my ability, as I said earlier, legislative business is all about transparency and that is going to be my watch word and I will encourage more of dialogue, putting Taraba State first, so that the three arms of government the Executive, legislature and the Judiciary will function as one family in the interest of Taraba State, we will put heads together to see that we promote the interest of Tarabans first and let me also plea with you journalists to cooperate with us in this 9th Assembly as you did in the 8th Assembly, always giving us balanced reports, please still be objectives. We are not saying that you should always take side with us we are ready for factual and constructive criticism. What is your reaction to local government Autonomy and the abolition of joint account?
To the best of my knowledge, the provision of the constitution have been amended, it’s a directive, they didn’t say that joint account has been abolish, we also have laws that stipulate the percentage of monies to be deducted from local government upon arrival from FEC which include monies that are meant for teachers’ salaries, pensions, training, traditional councils university and the rest, I don’t think they are saying that such monies should not be paid to this institution because these are monies being stipulated by laws of Taraba State House of Assembly. The issue of kidnapping is becoming so alarming in Taraba, what is the state Assembly doing to tackle this menace?
We still have to review that law, we will add the penalty attached to this law already, but since they have not gone to sleep we will also not sleep, we will bring a stiffer punishment to the issue of kidnapping in Taraba state. Let me also appreciate His Excellency Gov. Darius Ishaku in his statement yesterday, that he is going to look into conflict resolution Bureau, before I think we will make it a commission now the house of Assembly is going to amend that will be a standing commission that from time to time, we will review it, this constant clashes between header’s and farmer’s or ethic crisis in Taraba state and God’s willing if we have God’s fearing individuals in the commission that will go a long way in solving most of the problems we are facing in Taraba state. As speaker for the third term, what is the new thing you want to change, l mean what is the difference will you like to make in this 9th Assembly?
I cannot change alone, l preside, it’s a collective business, members will like to see us perform more than what we did in the 8th Assembly and that l am willing to steer the ship so that we can all perform better than what we did in the previous Assembly. As l said earlier, more of dialogue with my colleagues so that we can make quality laws and policies for our state and to deliver dividend of Democracy to our people. What have you set as your agenda in the 9th Assembly?
We will review a lot of our laws because some of these laws were made when these challenges we face today were not there, now these ugly event are staring to our faces that if we don’t change some of these laws we will remain in this ugly situation especially the law that has to do with kidnapping, reviewing the law that has to do with the Bureau for Local Government, Conflict Resolutions. We intend to make it a commission, we also want to see the 9th Assembly consolidating on the success of the 8th Assembly, so consolidation is our watch word in 9th Assembly and also where we feel that we make mistake we will seat up to correct those mistakes because we are all human, nobody is above mistake. You are a member of the committee on the judiciary and legislative Autonomy, can you tell us the terms of frame of that committee?
The committee has five terms of reference, one, is to monitor the implementation of the alteration of the constitution of the all state and we have done our retreat very soon we will summit our report to Mr. president, as it now I cannot speak for the committee because our report is yet to be unveiled, the most important of all is to monitor the implementation of the fault alteration that is the first line charge of the judiciary and the legislative arm, to also interact with them particularly they MDAs and the executive arm of government also to come out with a modern that the entire country will adopt when it comes to the implementation of the fault alteration, is not as if they are separating the government as other people perceived no, is still going to be one government with one head, is that the mood of operation is going to be different.