LAGOS – On Thursday, July 25, 2019, members of the Ondo State House of Assembly who were gathered to hold the day’s plenary session left the hollow chamber in shock, when snakes allegedly fell from the ceiling of the chamber. The situation, which caused panic among the lawmakers, abruptly brought the day’s plenary to an end as members hurriedly rushed out from the chamber. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Though, there have been different versions of stories as to what was responsible for the snakes’ invasion. There have also been claims that last Thursday’s incident was not the first to happen but eyewitness accounts have it that the snake that fell from the ceiling on Thursday during almost fell on the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Bamidele Oloyelogun, who presided the session. Some of the Assembly staff who witnessed the incident disclose to journalists, though in confidence, that the complex has for a long while been left unattended to. And members have also corroborated this, as the chairman of the House Committee on Information, Gbenga Omole has vowed that the House would not approve by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s request to borrow N30b to fund capital projects in the state, if he (Akeredolu) declines their request for a better and conducive environment to carry out their legislative duties. Information has it that due to deplorable condition of facilities at the complex, snakes freely enter lawmakers’ offices and the hallowed chamber. It was also alleged that a day before the incident that occurred on Thursday, a mysterious snake in one of the offices caused mild drama and apprehension at the Assembly complex when it chased a lawmaker out of his office. According to a staff of the House, “I can’t remember the last time this complex was fumigated. Everywhere around is just too dirty that sometimes one begins to wonder how lawmakers cope and sit in such a dirty environment.” The horrible incident had forced the Speaker to adjourn sine die until certain repairs were carried out on the Assembly complex. Though, the state governor had alleged that the lawmakers were out to blackmail his administration, insisting that the alarm raised by the members was not only an attempt to embarrass his government but the entire state and her citizenry. According to Akeredolu, “All I have come to do is to verify exactly what happened and I have seen that there’s an attempt to blackmail the state and the government won’t take it. I was given the fact and I wanted to be sure that the Speaker and most of the principal officers are here and I have heard from them for us to know what exactly happened and they have told us that no snake fell here yesterday and day before, they were not sitting when the ceiling came down, they only met the ceiling that came down. “It was reported that they were sitting. No. All the pictures they put out there are fake. So how does the media come about their story? There’s an attempt to blackmail the government and I don’t believe that is the best approach. “The legislature is an arm of government and they have their votes and the ones they are entitled to is the ones we give them. This place is termite infested and certainly the termites have been dwelling here for several years. We just spent two years and there is no way termite infestation in less than two years can cause such destruction. “Something is wrong, this place has not been maintained. Members of the house have always been here, what have they done about maintenance of this place? If they have not been concerned about this place, we all have to sit down and work things out,” the governor said. However, Omole, while addressing newsmen in Akure on Monday, maintained that the lawmakers would not approve the request if the governor declines their request for a better and conducive environment to carry out their legislative duties. The lawmaker who was responding to the governor’s allegation that the members of the assembly were out to blackmail him and his administration, denied such allegation, stating that the state governor was more concerned about rehabilitation of structures belonging to the executive arm of government but not looking at the way of legislative arm. According to him “They want to borrow money now. I am a member of the Appropriation Committee. They want to borrow N30 billion. If they did not do what we want, we will not allow that to happen. Out of the money, they said they want to rehabilitate Accountant General’s office, you want to repair the Accountant General’s office but you don’t want to repair the independent arm of government. It is not going to happen. The worst is that they will not give us second term but we will do what the people of Ondo State like. “The truth of the matter is that that place needs attention. The way they merged the issue of snake with the collapsed part of the building is the issue. The termites have eaten the roof of the building. To set the record straight, we never sat on Wednesday and Thursday. Actually, we wanted to sit on Thursday, but when we came in some part of the roof had caved-in. I granted the interview that on Wednesday that there was a snake and we could not sit, it is not that snake chased us out of the chamber. That was what everybody wrote. Journalists have liberty to write what they wanted to write. “On the issue of termite, everybody knows that place needs a facelift, that is a fact that the governor knows. It is the joining of snake with termite that embarrassed the governor. The governor accused us of blackmail, why is it that the past leadership of the House has not done anything about it. Every year they put renovation of the Assembly in the budget and it was not implemented. The executive brings in budget and you passed it. The place where the budget is passed is termite infested,” Omole said. The last of the matter is yet to be seen, as the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, has described the condition of the state legislative chamber, as unfortunate. The Ondo State PDP in a statement issued by its y its Director of Publicity, Zadok Akintoye, said, “Our party uses this opportunity to advise the honourable members to rise up in defence of the people’s mandate given to them and to save the legislative arm of government from ridicule. “PDP notes the recent unfortunate incident that occurred at the Ondo State House of Assembly, where members allegedly fled the hallowed chambers due to the presence of a snake within the legislative hall. This event calls for deep concern from all citizens. “And now that such issue has become a subject of unfortunate accusation and counter-accusation from the people whose heads carry the mandate of the masses, with an arm of government name tagging the other arm as blackmailers, we will hope the matter will get the required investigative attention and the records be set straight as a show of respect for the mandate the good people of Ondo State. “Mr. Governor, you were way out of line. You were completely out of order. You carried your authority too far and abused what should be the member’s natural inclination to respect you as a leader. You abused your authority. Perhaps you do not realize it: You and these 26 members are the only ones who truly carry the mandate of the People. The people, it was, who trooped out to elect them as they did you too. To speak to them so condescendingly and so demeaningly portrays you as a dictatorial, hitlerish individual who imagines himself only next to God in importance. “The Legislature is an arm of government deserving of respect and honour. Granted that the manner of the emergence of some of those who are there now may have been undemocratic and that you may have had to pay good money to buy votes for most of them, the truth is that ultimately the people voted for them all too in much the same way that they voted for you,” the PDP statement read in part. The legislators have insisted that it won’t be business as usual. “That is my own stand as the spokesperson of the House. Do they not repair their own offices? There was a snake on Wednesday. On Thursday when we were about to sit, we discovered termites have eaten the roof. The question is that termite did not start eating in the last two years. It has been the failure of the leadership of the House in the past Assembly. “The truth is that they will give them small money and they will pass the budget, the one that concerns them will not be addressed. We are not going to take that this time around. We cannot say because we are friends to the governor we will not say the truth, they repair their offices. Let us expose the leadership of the House, the Speaker said money is voted for the renovation every year, but it is not backed with cash. They did not release money for repair, yet you pass their budgets,” Omole alleged.