Lagos – The operatives of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) have arrested a married woman with three others who specialised in snatching exotic cars after drugging  their victims. The drugs usually applied on victims is said to be an anti van,  which compels  victims to sudden deep sleep that could last for hours. The suspects are Kingsley Iwueze,34, Moses Ugwu 47, Onyebuchi Odoh 48 and Ugwuoke Euphemia 40 years. Iwueze is alleged to be the driver, who drove any robbed vehicle to the  eastern part of Nigeria and dispose them. Ugwu,is the alleged  gang leader while Euphemia ,is a female suspect who allegedly provided the sleeping drugs and  Odoh an alleged dealer in stolen cars. They were alleged to have snatched  a Toyota Corolla car, with registration number  GGG 720 FK  from  one Clifford Echereode  of Gowon Estate Egbeda Lagos. IRT source disclosed that on the 22nd of April, 2019 at about 10pm., the victim was at Apple Junction Festac Lagos, with the car which he uses for UBER taxi services. According to the police, while waiting to pick passengers, a man approached him and requested that he should go along with him with his car to pick up his brother, who was to arrive at the Murtala Mohammed International airport Ikeja at about 11pm.from Ghana. It was revealed that both exchanged phone numbers, after which the suspect lured him to a bar in Festac, where he offered him some roasted meat (suya) and the victim ate and became unconscious. His car and his Iinfinix Android phone and other valuables were stolen from him. On receipt of this complaint, operatives of the IRT swung into action, through  data analysis, tracked and  arrested the principal suspect Iwueze. On interrogation he allegedly confessed to the crime and stealing of other cars by the application of noxious substance on his victims, making them unconscious before escaping with their cars to the eastern part of the country. The source also revealed that  the confession of the first suspect , gave the lead to the apprehension of his gang members and recovery of a Toyota corolla s/car , Toyota Camry (muzzle) and Toyota Camry (Big Daddy. Police said, Iwueze hails from Isiala Mbano LGA of Imo state, and has Ordinary National Diploma (OND)  Certificate in Agricultural Science at  Polytechnic Nekede, in Imo State.. He is said to have relocated to Lagos in 2015 , and married  with two kids He allegedly told the police that sometime in March 2019, he met one Moses who introduced  him to  car snatching. They have snatched three cars in Lagos together using the anti van  on their victims. Moses was said to have told the police that,  he is from Umuida town in Igboeze North LGA of Enugu state . He only attended Primary school and could not further his education due to financial constraints. He is said to be a  father of six children. IRT source said, he “was into scraps business but later became jobless and that snowballed In 2018, one Chukwuma introduced me  to car theft.  “I  had snatched and sold many cars together with Chukwuma and shared proceeds with him before Chukwuma died in a ghastly motor accident. Early this year,  one Ejike introduced me  to a woman called Euphemia Ugwuoke who aided us  in the car snatching deal with some poisonous substance which my gang used in snatching cars . I was  arrested in Enugu. Also,  Euphemia was  said to have told the police that, she is a  native of Udenu in Udenu Local Government Area of  Nsukka, Enugu state. I am  married with four  children. My husband is Mr. Augustin  Ugwuoke but we have  misunderstanding since 2002. I thank God we are now talking of settlement to resolve the misunderstanding. He is working as a  mechanic and motor spare parts dealer in Markurdi. However, I have a place behind Army Barracks, Onitsha where I sell food and drinks.” Precisely, I went to prison because of my boy friend who was taking care of my children, when I had misunderstanding with my husband. My boy friend was a car snatcher and it was the offence of CSR snatching that sent us to prison in Owerri, Imo State, in  2013 and we were released in 2017. There is also  offence of  phone snatching in Gboko, Benue state. My friend  snatched phone and  gave it me as special gift, unfortunately, I gave it to my son not knowing that it was a stolen Before I knew that it was robbed the police had tracked my son and arrested him. On interrogation he confessed that it was I, his mother who gave it to him as gift. My son was released and I was arrested and charged to court. I was remanded in prison but my bail was later perfected and I regained my freedom. However my freedom did not last when my brother Ejike brought Moses to my house in Onitsha begging me to help them to buy the anti van drug. Moses gave me N15,000 for 10 satchets.