Nnewi – Rev. Jeremiah Nwachukwu, the general overseer of Bible Base Assembly, Anambra State, has said that the alleged plot by President Mohammed Buhari to Islamise Nigeria through the introduction of Ruga settlement would not stand.
Rev. Nwachukwu, who spoke to newsmen in Nnewi, said that Islamization of Igbo people in particular was not possible, noting that there were many devices in a man’s heart but only the counsel of the Lord would stand.
Said he, “Islamisation of Nigeria will not stand. Islamizing the Igbo race is not possible. God is still at work. Very soon this noise will be over, there is a constitution in Nigeria and no matter how imperfect it is, it is still the supreme document that regulates all our activities.”
Nwachukwu noted that a judge in Kaduna recently threw out Governor Nasril el-Rufai’s law directing every preacher in the state to get a licence. He said the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) went to court and the court declared the law void and of no effect.
According to him, “Ruga and Islamization programme of President Buhari are dead on arrival because when you are aware of your enemy’s strategy, it will not work.
“I pity this administration. They will fail because they want to favour a particular section of the country and, therefore, will not achieve anything in eight years. God is a game changer. He will mysteriously change the whole thing for His people. Other religions fight for their God. Our God fights for us. So, Islamisation plot will be in vain as far as God remains the Commander in Chief of the universe,” he said.
While advising the Igbo to prepare to remain in opposition as long as the administration remained in power because they contributed nothing to earn them good positions in the government.
He stated that looking at the structure of All Progressives Congress (APC), Ndigbo should not expect anything as the APC don’t recognize them as evidenced in the administration inability to consider them fit for leadership positions.
Said the cleric again, “Ndigbo have nothing at the table in APC to give us any position, so they should not expect something.
“We should be prepared to play opposition in this administration. The position of Deputy Senate President will not add or remove anything from us. We succeed more when we are oppressed. We succeed more when we are called nobody. We get our best when we are challenged. That is when you see the best from an Igbo man,” he added.