Staying power is the guts, capacity, and the determination to keep at a task until completion. Do you have the staying power in your career and/or enterprise? When an individual has staying power, such a person keeps at tasks until they’re completed. This requires keeping their eyes on the finish line in-spite of any obstacle, challenge, distractions, early winnings, losses, etc. Staying power is defined by the dictionary, as the capacity for continuing (as in existence, influence, or popularity) without weakening. It is also called stamina, endurance, indefatigability, tirelessness, resistance, resilience, fortitude, toughness, determination, and perseverance. It is the will power to end whatever one starts. My protegee, Marty (my pen name for him) has had a very successful career despite some hurdles at his mid-managerial level. He has been privileged to work for leading MNCs (multinationals) within his preferred sector and had made some very brilliant career moves leading to the attainment of leadership at midage. At some point in his career life, Marty got employed in a leading firm which had a strong reputation for talent management and retention. This was an organisation reputed as one of the few best places to work in, within the sector and it was rare for staff to resign except in unusual circumstances. In spite of this, organizational politics still played up there anywhere. After spending about 5 years in this organisation, Marty wanted some guidance. During our chat, I was surprised when he said, ‘HO, I am thinking of leaving the company’. I strongly felt the need to counsel him against it. ‘Marty, don’t do anything irrational’ I retorted. Then I inquired further why he was considering such thoughts, but his explanations weren’t strong enough in my opinion. ‘Something great is going to happen to you in this same company’ I prophesied to him. We spoke at length about his worries and I made him see why leaving at that time, was not such a good idea. Luckily, he remained in the establishment. Two years later, he called to inform me of his promotion and cross-market transfer to another country to lead the business. I was elated! The result of perseverance and staying power! Staying power does not mean that you continue in pursuance of a wrong activity when you make the discovery. It is wisdom to readily isolate matters and change gear, if and when deliverables are impacted or vision, unrealised. An interesting thing happened while I was writing this piece; the completed draft was erroneously deleted. And all attempts at recover it was unsuccessful. My initial reaction was to move on, but I remembered what the topic and how important it was for me to walk the talk. A very close friend of mine desired a business opportunity and was privileged to get some opportunity within the telecom sector. With a strong positive heart disposition of ‘No retreat. No Surrender’, he was very determined to make strong in-roads and build a great business. This helped him prevail and succeed in the business. Most businesses fail due to lack of focus – without which it will be easier to get distracted and sub-optimal on the journey. Ask most surviving entrepreneurs, they will help you see how inner fire helped them endure and persevere during challenging times, as they tweaked their strategies. Lilly-livered career professionals and entrepreneurs throw in the towel once challenges come.