the launch of Kylie Jenner’s latest skin care products. And Sofia Richie is reportedly ‘closer than ever’ to the makeup mogul now that drama has died down between Scott Disick and Kourtney Kardashian, according to Us Weekly. Kylie invited Sofia on the trip of a lifetime where the girls indulged in steamy photo shoots between yachting adventures and relaxing by the pool. BFF alert: Sofia Richie is reportedly ‘closer than ever’ to the makeup mogul now that drama has died down between Scott Disick and Kourtney Kardashian, according to Us Weekly ‘Kylie and Sofia have always run in the same circle and are very close in age, so they’ve bonded a lot through the years,’ a source said. ‘They’ve always been in the limelight, lived very similar lifestyles and grown up around a lot of the same people.’ While Kylie found fame as the youngest sibling in the massive Kardashian/Jenner brood, Sofia lived the life of luxury as the daughter of Lionel Richie. Friends forever: Kylie invited Sofia on the trip of a lifetime where the girls indulged in steamy photo shoots between yachting adventures and relaxing by the pool +5
Friends forever: Kylie invited Sofia on the trip of a lifetime where the girls indulged in steamy photo shoots between yachting adventures and relaxing by the pool Despite their famous families, Sofia wasn’t too eagerly welcomed into the Kardashian world after she started dating Scott Disick nearly two years ago. ‘They’ve gotten a lot closer as of late now that the Kourtney, Scott and Sofia drama has died down,’ the insider added. Scott and Kourtney dated on-and-off for nearly a decade before finally calling it quits in July 2015, and have three children together: Mason, nine, Penelope, seven, and Reign, four. ‘Scott is really happy that Sofia and Kylie have become so close again because it means that Sofia has been further accepted in the family,’ a source said +5 Girls’ trip! Kylie invited Sofia on her tropical holiday with best pals Stassi Karanikolaou, Yris Palmer, Victoria Villarroel and Draya Michele +5 ‘Once any drama between Kourtney and Sofia blew over, Kylie felt more comfortable spending girl time with Sofia again,’ the source said. ‘Scott is really happy that Sofia and Kylie have become so close again because it means that Sofia has been further accepted in the family.’ Kylie had a little more room in her life to add a new sidekick after a challenging start to the year when her best friend Jordyn Woods revealed she kissed Khloe Kardashian’s love-rat boyfriend Tristan Thompson at a house party in Los Angeles on Valentine’s Day weekend. While Tristan had previously been caught up in multiple cheating scandals — DailyMail.com broke the news of his affairs just days before she gave birth to their daughter True — this infidelity was the last straw for Khloe and she ended things with the professional basketball player for good.