Lagos – West African Examination Council (WAEC), on Friday in Lagos, announced the release of results for schools based candidates for the 2019 West African Senior School Certificate Examinations (WASSCE).
According to the council, the results showed 64.18 per cent performance for candidates that obtained 5 credits and above in a minimum of five subjects including English language and Mathematics.
The Head of Nigeria National Office (HNO) of WAEC, Mr. Olu Adenipekun disclosed this to newsmen at the headquarters of the Council in Lagos.
“Of this number, 507, 862 that is 49.77 per cent male candidates and 512,657 that is 50.23 per cent were female candidates.
The percentage of candidates in this category in the WASSCE for school candidates, 2018 was 50 per cent.
“The 2019 results represent about 10 per cent increase against 2018 performance by candidates,” he added.
“The results of 180,205 candidates, representing 11.33 per cent of the total number of candidates that sat the examination are being withheld in connection with various reported cases of examination malpractice. The cases are being investigated and reports of the Investigations will be presented to the appropriate Committee of the Council in due course,” Olanipekun disclosed.
According to him, a total of 1,596,161 candidates registered for the examination from 18,639 recognised secondary schools in Nigeria. Of the number that registered for the examination, 1,590,173 candidates sat the examination.
The HNO posited that 1,918 candidates with varying degrees of special needs were registered for the examination.
“Out of this number 299 were visually challenged, 842 had impaired hearing; 158 had low vision; 75 spastic cum mentally challenged, and 85 were physically challenged. All these candidates with special needs were adequately provided for in the administration of the examination. The results of these candidates have been processed and released along with other candidates,” Olanipekun said.
Reacting on the issue of examination malpractice, HNO said the Council has developed technology to discover fraud among the candidates. “Also, we have developed a Smart identify card device to checkmate impersonation,” he said.
In a related development, Olanipekun said it is unfortunate for school owners to charge WAEC candidates extra fees, saying the Council does not charge outside the fee published in the media.
On the level of candidates with special needs and disability, he said the Council has a template for candidates to indicate the type of disability and level of challenge that are imputed into the system to prepare grounds for the candidates before and during the examination.
In his words: “Candidates that are confirmed blind are given brail while those with partial impaired are given questions with bigger prints.”