Nnewi – Worried by activities of Boko Haram, herdsmen and farmers conflicts, youth restiveness, growing utterances of hate speeches, religious intolerance in most parts of the country, the National Complementary and Alternative Medical Association (NACAMA) of Nigeria has advocated for both the Federal and state governments to establish a Ministry of Reconciliation to undertake the settlement of aggrieved citizens and groups in the country.
It noted that the establishment of such ministry will be a first step to enthrone peace and unite the people to secure Nigerian nations’ future, just as the group urged both states and Federal Government to establish vocational and skills acquisition training to address massive youth unemployment, which is creating restiveness in almost every part of the country.
Making this appeal to the Federal Government in a welcome address read during the annual general meeting/conference of the association, titled: “Consolidating CAM practice in Nigeria,” held in Onitsha, Anambra State of Sunday, Prof. Peter Emeka Katchy, national president of the associations, noted that both the state and Federal Government should as a matter of national importance, establish the ministry with sufficient budgetary provisions.
Katchy added that the ministry will cause peace and national cohesion, which is better than tough talks and military deployments.
On lingering issue of herdsmen/farmers conflicts, the association stated that there is the need for government to encourage public and private persons to build ranches with livestock materials in order to stem the tide of herdsmen and farmers’ constant conflicts, as well as set up ranches and livestock commission exclusively from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
Highlights of the event was the investitures of distinguished award of pillar of the association to five eminent Nigerians namely, Dr. Emmanuel Onah, the Director of Medical Services Enugu State, Dr. Umede Idris, chairman of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria Abuja; Dr. Michael Ayodele Akindipe, Secretary Board of Registered Trustees of NACAMA; Augustina Oge Ekweozor, and Dr. Henry Okafor.