Residents of the University of Lagos Estate in Isheri, Lagos, have commended Ikeja Electric (IE) for the swift installation of meters in the estate, under the Meter Asset Provider scheme (MAP).
Speaking on behalf of the community, the Chairman of the Community Development Association (CDA), Bashir Momodu, appreciated IE for the development, saying that the residents could now control their consumption as they are paying for whatever they use. He advised IE to improve on its service in terms of power supply.
Another landlord, Kunle Olaifa, while commending the Disco as well, noted that installation of meters would gradually eliminate the issue of outstanding bills left by tenants when moving houses.
Mrs. Abimbola Ande expressed joy that with the installation of meters, the burden of crazy bills had been lifted off her. According to her, a new Nigeria is emerging and she also revealed that she received text messages informing her of the challenges whenever there is a prolonged outage
In his response, the acting chief commercial Officer, Ikeja Electric, Ugochukwu Obi-Chukwu, reiterated IE’s commitment to bridging the metering gap across its network through MAP scheme.
“Ikeja Electric is deploying the meters in two phases, starting with Shomolu, Ikorodu and Abule-Egba business units. The second phase will now include Akowonjo, Ikeja and Oshodi Business Units.
“We have already commenced MAP in the Shomolu business unit, with the metering of Unilag Estate in Isheri and Magodo, which is currently ongoing. The unique demography of these areas actually made the survey of customers very easy,” he explained.
He advised customers to register for MAP through map.ikejaelectric.com, using their Ikeja Electric’s account number on the bill to update their KYC (Know Your Customer) details, after which a survey would be carried out to determine the type of meter that will be suitable for their premises.
He said customers would be advised to pay based on the survey and the meter will be installed within ten days after payment.