Dr. Tunde Oyemade, a Public Policy Analyst, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the issue of insecurity in the nation, especially on the killing of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, daughter of the leader of Afenifere, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s recent letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, among other issues. Excerpts: The recent killing of the daughter of Afenifere leader has brought to the fore the issue of insecurity in the nation, which is spreading down South. How would you react to the development? It is unfortunate that we do not prepare when problems are coming. The signs of insecurity have been there for a long time. If President Muhammadu Buhari administration has been arresting and prosecuting the killers, they would not have come down south. If the head of a fish is bad, the whole fish will be bad. In the past, if you are stranded at night, the police would assist you get to your destination. But now, if the police see you stranded, they will put a gun on you and frame you up and charge you for robbery. If something had been done about the killings, Fasoranti’s daughter would not have been killed. It is not an assassination, but the work of bandits who stay in and use the forest as cover. Many people have been killed by bandits and we did not hear about it. It is because the victim was the daughter of a notable personality that we heard about it. The Federal Government should send security officers into the forests to find and arrest the bandits. Let the Fulani herdsmen return to their land. Most of these people are not Nigerians. President Buhari should apologise to Nigerians on behalf of the Fulani. These will end the killings and Nigerians will forgive the Fulanis for all these things happening in the country. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo recently alleged that there was a Fulanisation and Islamisation agenda under the current administration. What is your take on that? I agree with Obasanjo. But, it cannot work. Instead, Nigeria will divide. We don’t pray for that. But, instead of the Fulanisation and Islamisation plan to succeed, Nigeria will divide. What Obasanjo said is obvious. These killings that are spreading to the South are part of it. Take few other examples. In Osun, the school uniform was changed by former Governor Rauf Aregbesola and the Sultan visited him. El-Rufai legislated against Christians in Kaduna. But, when he was campaigning, he went to the church where he was given the pulpit, to campaign. Thank God, the courts have annulled the El-Rufai’s offensive law. The Miyetti Allah has been issuing threats. Why have they not been arrested? Do you see the possibility of President Muhammadu Buhari introducing True Federalism in the nation’s political system in his second term, having recently identified it as the best for Nigeria? Buhari is not sincere. He cannot implement True Federalism. Nigerians are living in falsehood. Buhari’s spokesman, Femi Adesina, said that people should relinquish their land to the Fulanis, or they will be killed. Orji Kalu also wants South Easterners to release their lands. We saw Senator Omo- Agege, the Deputy Senate President, kneeling before Buhari. This is someone who led an attack on the Senate during which the Mace was removed. He is now the Deputy Senate President. Gbajabiamila was said to be a member of the House on The Rock Church. But, he was reported to have converted to Islam before he was elected Speaker. The Senate President is a Muslim. Heads of all federal institutions and Security Chiefs are Muslims. Under this situation, there cannot be True Federalism. It is when President Buhari puts Southern and Middle Beltans in all these offices that we will believe what he is saying about True Federalism. Buhari, after the election, when a petition against him was already before the tribunal, hosted judges. Most of his appointees are Fulani. How can he introduce True Federalism? How do you see the suspension of the Ruga settlement policy of the Federal Government? Ruga should not just be suspended. It should be canceled. This is why they ensured that Muslims are put as leaders of the National Assembly so that they can easily approve whatever is passed to them. Look at the on-going harassment of Governor Obaseki by Adams Oshiomhole, a Muslim. Watch and see, many of the APC lawmakers may be forced to defect to the PDP in Edo State because of what is happening there. I don’t believe in Ruga. They want to take over the authority of the land from the governors through the National Assembly. Then they will have power to allocate to the Fulani everywhere. That is their game plan. Buhari is doing it with the cooperation of the APC leaders in South West. It is no longer a hidden plan. If the National Assembly members want to write their names in gold, they should not pass such bills that will cause confusion in the nation. Would you subscribe to the Miyetti Allah establishing Fulani youth vigilantes in South East communities or any part of Southern Nigeria? It is impossible. It cannot work. It is a game plan to take over the country. Very soon, they will be crowning Sarakis and Emirs in Southern Nigeria beginning from South East. Can they have Igbo vigilantes in the North? Now police stations do not want to take cases involving the Fulanis in the South. We are now sinking to the bottom of instability in the nation. Only God can save us. Buhari should speak to the Fulanis before Nigeria is overwhelmed by instability. Do you think the Federal Government should release El-Zakyzaky? They should release him. The courts have ruled that he should be released on bail. But, unfortunately, this government does not obey court orders. If government continue to hold him, his followers may become very difficult to be handled and the issue will be out of hand. The Shiites may become another Boko Haram and this will become a disaster for Nigeria. Already, it is believed that Iran is backing the Shiites. This is dangerous for Nigeria if Buhari fails to release El-Zakyzacky. Cross section of Nigerians believes that the Ninth National Assembly will be a rubber stamp to the executive. Do you agree? From all indications, the new National Assembly will be a rubber stamp. Looking at the leadership that emerged, which of them will have the mind of their own outside that of the President? Even some of the members of opposition seem to have been bought over, hence they now defy the instructions of their parties. But, the few that refused to be bought over, they should remain focused and maintain their stand and make their opinion on any issue known. They utilise the media well to for the people to know their stand. They should remain on the side of the people. What is your advice to Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State governor? I commend what Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Hamzat, are doing at the Lagos-Badagry Expressway. I also see that the list of commissioners is a little different from what obtained in the past. But, I don’t like his traffic laws. The LATSMA has become so wicked to Lagosians. They harass innocent people. I wish he will have a rethink on the traffic laws. The penalties are very high. He should review them and bring them back to where they were. The LASTMA now plant their men in mufti to help to extort money.