Hon. Mufutau Egberongbe is the member representing Apapa Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives. In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, he speaks on why the House of Representatives called on the Federal Government to release the leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria, also known as the Shiite group, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, issues relating to the Minority Leadership tussle; the much awaited ministerial list and especially his motion on how to put an end to gridlock in Apapa area of Lagos State. Excerpts: There is this impression among some Nigerians that the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) imposed Senator Ahmad Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila on the federal lawmakers in the 9th Assembly. What is your reaction to this? Those individuals that vied for the position of the leadership of the National Assembly belong to a party and the party is ideological based. So it behooves on the party, the leadership inclusive to be able to identify who and who deserve and will protect the interest of the masses better. Why didn’t the Speaker, Gbajabiamila obey the directive of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who chose Hon. Kingsley Chinda as its preferred candidate as Minority Leader instead of Ndudi Elumelu who was selected by some members of the minority in the House? At the National Assembly, we don’t have independent candidates; people emerged from a political party. The case is not same in the case of Minority Leader because the PDP is not the only minority party in the House, we have the All Progressives Grand Alliance; we have the Alliance for Democracy and few others. So you cannot say because you have the majority among the minority, then you should get the position, those other minority parties must be carried along. So electing the Minority Leader is not a PDP affair but the conglomerate of the minority parties. But I think where we are getting it wrong is the belief or contention that PDP is the sole minority party, though they form a core but they are not the only minority party, we have other parties that are part of the minority. It is not possible for the PDP to write the House to say an individual should be the Minority Leader. Members of the Shiite group recently invaded the National calling for the release of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky . How would you react to the recent attack on the National Assembly? All over the world, agitations are part of politicking and even the way of life and socialization as well and I think the Shiite group has a right to agitate. The reason in question is that their leader was arrested and I think there was a court judgment that says the man should be released and I think we should be a respecter of the law and not a law breaker. If by chance or perhaps they see him as a threat, they could put searchlight on him and I believe we have enough security apparatus and intelligent that could be put around him. We should respect the law and ensure he is released. As lawmakers, we expect the Federal Government to respect the rule of law. The House of Representatives has called on the Federal Government to release the man but do you see the government yielding to your call when it has refused to obey the judgment of a court. The government has claimed severally that if he is released, it may threaten the security of the nation. Are you not looking in the same direction with the federal government? God forbids that the man dies in detention; it will be more dangerous if he dies in detention, by then things may become more chaotic. If you see him as a threat, build intelligence around him and not to continue detaining him. We have demanded his release and we expect the federal government to do the needful. On the issue of Ministerial list, it is over a month that the new administration kick started and Nigerians are already complaining that President Muhammadu Buhari is taking too much time in sending names to the Senate for confirmation. What is your take on this? The grand norm that regulates our activities as a people and nation is the constitution and this constitution gives the President the liberty to appoint the minsters anytime he so wishes. And don’t forget also that Ministries are basically driven by a combat proactive civil service headed by the Permanent Secretaries, in no distances, the Commissioners; the Ministers do the coordination. If we are saying the President has not appointed the Ministers, states also have not appointed Commissioners and even the National Assembly too has not appointed standing Committee Chairmen. I think the problem with Nigerians is that we are always in a hurry; we should just give the President time to do his work. You just said Nigerians are always in a hurry but the general belief is that four years is not such a long time and the people are waiting to see the Next Level that was promised by your party to start materializing. Don’t you agree with that? Most of these agitations are emanating from people who have been hinted or those who are looking forward to one appointment or the other. I don’t think one month is too long to bring out the ministerial list. A major problem being faced by your constituency, Apapa Federal Constituency is the issue of gridlock, what are you doing as the people’s representatives to ensure that this problem is resolved once and for all? We will continue to represent at the federal level, the interest of the masses who gave me the trust to represent them at the National Assembly. Just today, I moved a motion on the Apapa gridlock and it was carried by the whole House. What I am bring to fore this time with the motion is that the Nigerian Customs Service should be directed to acquire modern cargo tracking equipment and scanner, with the cargo tracking equipment, ships can tracked. Even before they park, we know where they are, the mileage, so that they can regulate their activities and we can even start documentations of the ships even before they park. What I am saying is that before the ships get landed, you can start documentations through that tracking equipment and with the scanner, you can check what is inside the container without necessarily needing to offload for inspection. All these put together will assist in decongesting the Port. If there is one major problem the people of Apapa are battling with, it is the issue of gridlock and it is commendable that you have brought this before the House. Another major which you fought for during your eight years in the Lagos State House of Assembly was the issue of Tank Farms relocation from Apapa, do you intend to continue with this at the House of Reps and do you see yourself achieving a result in the end? The Tank Farm issue was an integral part of the motion of gridlock. The motion did resolved that the government should start doing something about our refineries because when the refineries are functional, the use of tank farms will be reduced. One is also of the opinion that the distributing networks from Atlas Coast should be strengthened, so that petroleum products can be distributed even from the Atlas Coast to the various areas. The motion also sought that the construction of the Badagry and Lekki Sea Ports are concluded in good time, all these will assist in reducing the gridlock in Apapa. Also, the issue of the rail lines and waterways was part of the motion raised today on the floor of the House and all the members supported it.