UYO – A suspected child trafficker, Miss Adiaesup okon Etukudoh has been remanded in Uyo prison over alleged trafficking of children. Adiaesup, a middle aged woman is alleged to belong to a large network of human trafficking gang which specialises in using fake pregnancies, and newly born children as prey and extort monies from unsuspecting top politicians in the state who have shared close relationship with them. Some of the gang victims according to report have succumbed to their blackmail for fear of being publicly ridiculed for extra marital affairs and remain enslaved financially by the syndicate. Adiaesup whose latest effort to trap yet another top government aide has landed her in trouble is yet to explain to the police how she got the two children in her custody allegedly delivered by her in yet to be disclosed hospital for the said top government functionary in Uyo. Information available to our correspondent has it that after exhaustive investigations, the matter was charged to magistrate court Uyo by the commissioner of police in a charge No/mu/332 dated 13th May 2019 before Magistrate Effiong A. Effiong. The magistrate who remanded the suspect in uyo prison had directed that the said children must be brought to the family court in the next adjourned date. Adiaesup current predicament started when he alleged that she was pregnant for a senior aide to Governor Emmanuel and disclosed that she got N400, 000 from the aide for her upkeep. According to her, upon delivery of the pregnancy, which she described as cryptic pregnancy that could not be detected by scan contacted the politician for more money for the children’s upkeep. The Politician ignored her request forcing her to cause a stir at the country home of the governor’s aide when she stormed the area with the twins and she was denied entry sensing blackmail and extortion motive, the politician contacted his lawyer who urged the woman to come to a bank at Uyo with the children and have the bank account opened for their welfare but upon arrival, the police arrested her. Reports gathered from police sources by our correspondent indicated that the lady upon investigation could not show any evidence of undergoing antenatal services in any hospital. To complicate the matter, the suspect told the investigating officers that the doctor who delivered her of the twins died recently and she wasn’t able to produce the name of the late doctor, the nurses or midwives that assisted her or the location of the hospital the delivery took place. Investigations further revealed that the suspect claimed that owing to an undisclosed illness, she could not breast feed the children and had delivered the cryptic pregnancy without any surgery. She also refused to present the children for DNA test alleging that the result will be doctored in favor of the politician whom she accused of impregnating her. Security sources said available medical reports showed that the suspected woman has never carried pregnancy talk less of putting to bed.