BENIN – Following the unpalatable things that have been happening in Benin Kingdom in recent times, such as kidnapping, cultism, armed robbery, violence and unwanton killing of innocent citizens, the Benin traditional worshipers at the weekend carried out purification and sanctification of the Kingdom. A statement by Comrade Desmond Agbama, Chief Press Secretary to the Oba of Benin, stated that the cleansing was also carried out in respect of an act recently perpetrated by some individuals and group of individuals who tried to subvert the Benin culture and tradition. According to Agbama, these individuals and groups have committed sacrilegious acts against the Benin throne, which did not go down well with the custodian of Benin culture and tradition. “In a bid to stem all these, an act of purification and sanctification was performed by the various traditional groups including Ewaise, Igie-Ohen, Priestesses of various deities and market women. “Urhokpota ground, venue of the event was besieged by various groups of traditional worshippers who took their turn to offer prayers for the good health and well-being of His Royal Majesty Ewuare II, as well as for the Royal family, Chiefs and entire people of the Benin Kingdom. “They also offered prayers to God and the ancestors to help avert all forms of evils, bloodshed, kidnapping, Armed robbery, cult killings and illicit human trafficking from the Kingdom and indeed Nigeria. “Importantly, curses were pronounced on the enemies of Benin Kingdom and all those who have committed an affront and sacrilegious acts against the Benin throne and the Kingdom. “Prayers were also offered by the traditional worshippers against those who perpetrate evils and various crimes in the Kingdom, so that they will reap the consequences of their negative actions against the Benin throne, the Kingdom and the people. “Various animals were slaughtered to give efficacy to the pronouncement while the traditional groups later engaged in a procession along some major streets in Benin City including Sokponba Road, Kings Square, Murtala Mohammed Way, Igbesamwan Street, Akpakpava road and ended at Emotan Shrine on Oba Market road. “The exercise was presided over by the Ewaise Group headed by Chief Eguezigbon, and Chief Ohen-Egie of Ogbeson” Agbama. Oba Of Benin Calls For Preservation Of Bini Language, Folklores, Songs, Dances His Royal Majesty, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Ewuare II, the Oba of Benin has re-emphasised the need to preserve the rich Benin culture, language, folklores, songs and dances. The call was made at a meeting that was recently held at the Oba Palace with Chiefs, Enigie, Igie-Ohen, Edionwere, youths and market women. The call was conveyed by a statement issued by Desmond Agbama, the Chief Press Secretary to the Oba of Benin. The monarch spoke through the Iyase of Benin, Chief Sam Igbe who observed that there is a decline in the speaking of Bini language as well as the practice of Bini folk songs and dances, and called on Edionwere, Chiefs and parents to impact cultural heritage to their children. The Omo N’Oba also advised parents to teach their children the way the Binis greet, its origin and significance in order for it not to go into extinction, pointing out that family greeting helps to identify the lineage of every Bini person. His Royal Majesty observed that people no longer visit the Emotan Shrine during burial ceremony, adding that the religion one professes does not prevent one from practicing his or her culture and tradition. The Oba of Benin expressed dissatisfaction with the increasing involvement of Benin people in human trafficking and irregular migration, stressing that these days, youths don’t want to work or learn a trade like carpentry, and brick-laying, but noted that they only engage in activities that are not dignifying. The Benin Monarch used the occasion to remind Edionwere and Enigie that there should be no encroachment into Palace land in their various villages, as they hold it in trust for the Omo N’Oba. Osadebamwen Omorodion from Iguogun, Daniel Omorogieva Igbinoba from Ikhueniro and Ohen Uleku of Iguomo, Pa Joseph Odeh expressed gratitude to His Royal Majesty for the reawakening of the cultural heritage of Benin, and promised to carry the message of Omo N’Oba to the people. The meeting was attended by members of the Benin Royal Family, Palace Chiefs, including the Oliha of Benin, Chief Edionwe Oliha, the Esogban of Benin, Chief David Edebiri, Enigie, Edionwere, Igie-Ohen, market women and youths.