LOKOJA – The Network of Kogi Associations (NSA), an umbrella body of political and socio-cultural associations in Kogi State has condemned the State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello for threatening to sack royal fathers and four Local government Council Administrators for alleged killing of 15 Fulani herdsmen in the state. In a statement by the group’s General Secretary, Mr. Atekojo Samson Usman made available to journalists after an emergency meeting held over the weekend in Lokoja, he noted that the royal fathers and Council Administrators are leaders; hence, they could not have supported killings in their communities. The group said, the governor’s directives to the royal fathers and their Council Administrators to “fish out killers of Fulani herdsmen,” was not only out of place, but an expression of frustration of a man whose administration was fast falling. The group wondered how a governor, who is the Chief Security officer of a state could stoke fire with such inciting statement, adding that herdsmen were further emboldened to step up attacks on innocent citizens of the state. “By this statement, we felt, the governor has taken sides, and as usual, herdsmen would step up attacks against innocent citizens. “We understand the difficulty Yahaya Bello is passing through over rejection of his gubernatorial ambition by Kogites as he faces election anytime soon. This is a case of frustration by threatening our royal fathers,” the statement highlighted. The Association expressed shock that royal fathers were recently conscripted into endorsing the governor for second term in office, wondering what went wrong so fast that he was hell-bent on removing about four of those royal fathers. He lamented that the governor has not shown concern on attacks by the herdsmen on various communities that led to scores of deaths across the state. They urged him not to play politics with people’s lives, saying that people could no longer go to farms in some local governments for fear of attacks. Meanwhile, the group urged the governor to sack his Special Adviser on Security, Mr. Jerry Omodara for not providing him genuine security situation in the state, adding that insecurity has heightened beyond the level he met in 2016.