A cash-strapped care worker has inherited one of Britain’s finest country estates after he obtained proof he was the illegitimate son of its aristocratic owner. In a report through inews, Jordan Adlard Rogers, 31, spent several years trying to prove Charles Rogers was his real father, all the while struggling to make ends meet in rural Cornwall. Mr Rogers had several requests for a test to be done turned away while his father was still alive. DNA test After the 62-year-old estate owner was found dead in his car on the grounds in August, a DNA test was finally carried out, and it confirmed Mr Rogers was a direct descendent or the aristocrat. As Charles’ mother and brother had also passed away, Mr Rogers was revealed as the heir to the grand estate, a 1,536-acre stretch of land between Helston and Porthleven in west Cornwall. He has now moved into the lavish Penrose Estate and said he is immersing himself in his new way of life, and his newfound family’s history. The Rogers family have lived on the site for generations. They gifted it to the National Trust in 1974 in exchange for a 1,000-year lease to continue living there. Years of attempts Mr Rogers, who has now left his job as a community support worker to live off the proceeds of the estate, said he can’t believe how much his life has changed since the DNA test came back positive. He said he had suspicions that Charles could have been his dad since the age of eight. “He offered to do a DNA test when I was younger but it didn’t happen and then when I was 18 I knocked on his door and asked if I could have the test and he told me to do it through the solicitors,” said Mr Rogers. “I was 18 so had other priorities at the time. “I wrote more letters in my twenties but never got a reply, then three years ago I got in contact with power of attorney Philip Care. “Philip said Charles didn’t want to do the test so I wrote one final letter with a DNA test kit enclosed and that was when ‘I’m not going to forget where I’ve come from’ Mr Rogers said he had to deal with some obstructive family members in the process, but he was finally able to get the test completed, Charles was confirmed as his father. He added: “I’m now starting to get my feet under the table here. People say I’m lucky, but I would trade anything to be able to go back and for Charles to know I was his son. Maybe then he might have taken a different path. “I don’t need to work anymore so want to set up a charity and help the Porthleven and Helston communities. “I’ve been at the point of worrying about the next bill and have had a tough start in life but now I’m here I want to help people. “I’m not going to forget where I’ve come from.” Struggle with drug abuse An inquest last week heard how Charles had struggled with drug abuse for many years and died of an overdose in his car outside his Grade-II listed farmhouse on the historic estate. The inquest, held in Truro, heard how there were no suspicious circumstances and that Charles had overdosed on a prescription drug. He was reportedly malnourished, neglected personal hygiene, and rarely changed his clothes in the months leading up to his death. Instead of living in his lavish home, Charles was sleeping in his car. The coroner was told the life tenant of the estate receives an income from a trust, and Charles was given a “substantial” cash allowance ranging from £300 to £1,000 a week. Piecing the puzzle together Mr Rogers, who bears a striking resemblance father, said he decided to speak out to give a fuller picture of his father’s life before he died. He said: “I haven’t been here long and don’t know all the ins and outs but have been able to piece some of the puzzle together. “Charles never actually lived in the estate. He lived in one of the estate’s farmhouses as his mum lived here so he never got the chance to inherit it. “They died two weeks apart. It’d got to the point when he gave up on himself and was living in his car instead of his house as it was such a mess. “The Rogers family gave the National Trust 46 cottages and a couple of farms and now the Rogers Family Trust produces income for the life tenant.” ‘He had big shoes to fill’ Mr Rogers has recently had a son with his partner Katie, and said he has learned of a number of factors that he believes resulted in his father’s descent into drug addiction. “There was always a pressure of him trying to match expectation,” he added. “His brother was a RAF pilot and his dad a lieutenant commander in the Royal Navy so he had big shoes to fill. He was under huge pressure taking it on, but he was different and a free spirit. “Charles served in the Army in Northern Ireland and I think this affected him greatly along with the death of his brother Nigel from cancer who he was very close to.” The estate makes money from investments in stocks and shares and renting a number of parcels of land to local farmers.