The Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Opeyemi Oke said that the state government was working hard to meet the expectations of the citizens in their quest for justice. Justice Oke said this on Tuesday in Lagos during a one day workshop on criminal justice, with the Theme: Appraisal of current criminal justice regime in Lagos State. The workshop was organised by the Rule of Law and Anti-corruption (RoLAC) Programme funded by the European Union and implemented by the British Council. According to Justice Oke, regardless of the daunting challenge in having successful criminal justice reforms, the state government is working seriously to meet the expectations of the citizens and ensure litigants get the best justice system and experience. She said that some of the challenges facing criminal justice reforms in Lagos include lack of access to good counsel by indigents, citizen, media trial by security agencies, inadequate funding and inadequate trained prosecutors among others. The CJ called on stakeholders in justice sector for support, stressing that reform can only be actualised through inter-agency cooperation and collaboration. “As far as efficient and effective administration of criminal justice is concerned, this cannot be achieve without collaboration and cooperation of all stakeholders in the sector. “The importance of criminal justice to the smooth running of any society cannot be overemphasized. Indeed, an effective criminal justice system is regarded by many as germane to the maintenance of law and order, “ She said. The Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Lagos State, Mr Adeniji Kazeem said that implementing the reform in criminal justice and maintaining law in a highly populated state like Lagos was not an easy task. Kazeem said that his expectations from the workshop include discussion on new trend and reforms that have worked, not just in other parts of Nigeria but also other jurisdictions. He said their discussions should particularly looked into options of the traditional judiciary system and efforts at decongesting the prisons.