Akin Osuntokun, a former  Special Adviser to the President Olusegun Obasanjo on political affairs has cautioned political leaders and those in high positions of authorities to always gauge their public comments in order not to set the country ablaze. Osuntokun, chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) spoke at his country home, Okemesi where about 1000 masquerades entertained hundreds of  guests and fun seekers who thronged the town  for  the annual Ladunwo Festival . The former  Managing Director of the News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) chief Akin Osuntokun also  stressed need by all levels of government to harness huge opportunities that resides in the rich culture and tradition of various communities to aid development. The PDP man, who dispelled rumour of his planned defection to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), said he would continue to offer timely and genuine advice to all levels of government across the country, using all legal platforms available to him, if and when situation called for such. According to him, the situation the country currently finds itself has made it imperative for governments to start utilising cultural heritage for socio-economic development, as part of economy diversification efforts being canvassed as alternatives to overdependence on oil. He regretted that many cultural and traditional potentials had remained neglected over the years, thereby denying many states and local governments huge revenue derivable from them, on annual basis. He urged those in helm of affairs, especially political office holders to put politics aside when it comes to issues relating to development, saying it was only then that the nation can move forward In his speech ,the  state Director General of the Council for Arts and Culture, Mr Wale Ojo-Lanre, said apart from revenue generation, arts and culture would reshape the minds of the people and curb all criminal tendencies, especially among the youth in the society. While assuring that the present administration of Dr. Kayode Fayemi
would promote and project the cultural values of Ekiti people to the whole world, the Director-General solicited for the cooperation of the people in giving priority attention to promoting Arts and Culture as a way of improving the economic and moral values of the country. Ojo Lanre said cultural festivals are significant in the lives of Africans as it would add value to the society by promoting happiness and reducing depression amongst the populace. ” The significance of culture in Africa and global setting cannot be understed; it is such that culture had gone beyond mere entertainment to empowerment ” Many people today earn their living through the money made from the various arts, thus Ekiti state government under Governor Kayode Fayemi, has resolved to make the sector become a veritable source of income to the state”, he said. End