Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Federal Government yesterday set up an Inter-Ministerial Committee on the Planning of the 2019 Global Youth Empowerment Forum (GYEF), part of the centenary anniversary celebration of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Inaugurating the Committee in Abuja, William Alo, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, said :“it is with a view to ensuring the success of this international event that this Inter-Ministerial Committee is being constituted.” He said the Forum, holding in Abuja from 1st to 3rd August, 2019, would attract about 250 delegates from across the globe, bringing together youth, policy makers, and social partners to exchange views, share experiences and provide ideas on how to foster decent work for the youths. According to Alo, “The Forum will further create a platform for young people to engage in participatory and in-depth discussions on the most burning issues surrounding youth employment.” He noted that in considering Nigeria for the GYEF, the ILO took into consideration the country’s leadership role in youth-led development initiatives across Africa. The terms of reference for the Committee are: to make adequate security arrangement for the Forum; provide and ease immigration services for international delegates to the Forum, facilitate protocol arrangements for officials of ILO member states and other United Nations Agencies expected at the GYEF, and to work with the ILO Country office in Nigeria in the coordination and harmonization of the activities of the GYEF, among others. The Permanent Secretary charged members of the committee to employ dedication, integrity and conscientiousness in discharging the task given them. He said, “This is a rare privilege extended to us as a nation and we have the responsibility to justify the confidence reposed on us.” In his remarks, the ILO Country Director, Dennis Zulu, stated that the GYEF had not been held in any part of the world outside Geneva; “The last one was held in 2012 in Geneva. Hosting of the GYEF in Nigeria is of historic importance as Nigeria would be the first outside Europe to host the event.” The Country Director, represented by Dino Corell, said, “As the most populous African nation, it would be an opportunity to showcase Nigeria positively in terms of innovations in digital technology and entrepreneurial skills.” He further disclosed that the Director-General of ILO, Geneva, Mr Guy Ryder, and other high-level dignitaries, including United Nations Secretary-General’s Envoy for Youth, and Ministers from various countries were expected at the event. “Mr Ryder’s attendance will make it his first visit to Nigeria and the second time in the history of Nigeria to have the presence of the DG ILO in the country after 1959 when the ILO Office was opened in Nigeria”, he added.