Lokoja – Kogi gubernatorial election is some months away. But the burning interest it is generating is like there  have not been any elections in the state. The permutations are rife, so also is the cynical political discourse across the state and beyond. The  discourse is  not  restricted to the political domain, but skillfully extended to religious gatherings to tribal associations and to even the markets , transport operators and educational institutions, in fact the names are endless. The discussion is everywhere, where there are more than one person. Since the elections management body, the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC)  rolled out the timetable some weeks back, the political parties have become the bride of the politicians of all shades and colour to seek for a nod to represent the party in November two governorship  election in Kogi state. In the early count over 43 politicians including Abubakar Idris , the first son of the second governor of the Kogi  state,  Alhaji Ibrahim Idris have signified their ambitions on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP). The young Idris veered into business which has tentacles in the Oil and Gas, Hospitality industry; Agricultural value chain enterprises and mining etc. He has used these concerns to add value to the teeming Kogites with employment opportunities while assisting indigent students to actualize their educational ambitions. In response to the barrages of appeal for him to throw his hat in the ring, Abubakar has to accept the invitation of the Kogi State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) to kick-start her Media Parley which is aimed at creating platform for budding aspirants to interface with the electorate. Abubakar while assuring the electorate that he has what it takes to wriggle the state out from the economic and social dysfunction in the state said he has tremendous advantage of winning the election. According to him, “I’m from the Eastern flank, my wife is from the central while most of my political allies are from Kogi west making me the bride of the electorate across nooks and crannies of the state.” He noted that the fulcrum of his administration will be on Agriculture to be the driver of the state economy. He added that he will work assiduously to add value to agricultural produce to creating jobs for the unemployed youths and to growing the internally generated revenue ( IGR). He added that the state is blessed with both human and mineral resources which if properly tapped will make Kogi  the leading state in the federation He noted that Kogi is blessed with abundant arable land that if properly maximise will kick out extreme poverty from the state and to grow wealth,  stressing that the three senatorial zones have crops of comparative advantage that need government massive investment. According to him” Kogi East has comparative advantage on Cashew. The state will partner with investors, give them tax incentives, ask them to employ our people . And as the investors’ inflow increases, government will make money. “ It is unfortunate though,  that Kogi east is the leading cashew producer in the country ,which  generate  about 70% of revenue from cashew in the country, it  has been exporting only the nuts without adding value. “ When we come on board, we will lift it from just exporting the raw material to invest in the full value chain of establishing industries that will do sorting  and processing which create more jobs and earn more  foreign exchange. “ We will make Kogi the hub of agricultural products in the country. We will revamp existing dams and create new ones across the state. At the side of  the dams we  will build ponds   give them to the youths to manage . We will irrigate the dams for farmers for all seasons farming. We will ensure that Agriculture become the mainstay of the state economy.” He vowed. The governorship aspirant asserted that every sector; Education, Health, Women and Youth, and Mining of the abundant solid minerals will be given impetus through direct foreign investment for immediate and remote rebuilding of the state. Meanwhile, the open support for his ambition by his father , popularly regarded as the father of the modern Kogi has unsettled some aspirants jostling to get his support.