Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State Aviation in an interview with aviation journalists at his sixth Stakeholders Forum held in Lagos, recently, spoke on the projects of this administration in the Nigerian aviation industry, challenges and the plans of the government on Enugu Airport among others.OLUSEGUN KOIKI was there for DAILY INDEPENDENT. Excerpts: Last year, the Federal Government suspended its plan to reestablish a national carrier for the country, do you think Nigeria still require a national carrier despite the several flag carriers that are abound? Nigeria in the geography of Africa is the central on the continent and it has equal distance from all locations within Africa. The country is also a good candidate for a very robust carrier. And whether there a reason or need for government to support the establishment of the carrier, yes there is. And that reason and need simply because you will agree with me that we are yet to have an airline that is truly an airline answering the quest and the yearnings of travellers in Nigeria. So, we must support every entrepreneur willing to establish an airline or who already has an airline existing. We must support them because that is the purpose of government being there. We must also support people who will build capacity to be able to equate or to be able to surpass where other airlines are now. Say for example, Ethiopian Airlines; when Nigerian Airway was flying all over the place they were just nowhere. They must have started before us, but they weren’t anywhere. But, because of that vacuum then, you will go to people like Ethiopia and recently, you have Rwanda and Namibia coming in. Believe me, this is where the market is. And at a time when we did the numbers, we found out that most of these businesses are centred around this country, Nigeria. I have done some speaking somewhere in England last week and we analysed all of these movements in the globe. We found out that, if you look at centre of Americas to centre of Europe to mid-East and to Southern Asia, that is where the activity of aviation is happening, but most of it is due to three fundamental things that I found out. One is the geography. I used to say that the map of Africa, if you turn it, it looks like a gun and the trigger, they said is where Nigeria is. If you consider this belt where we are operating, the West and Central Africa, if that is the best belt for Africa, economically, politically and socially, then Nigeria must be the bulk of the belt for Africa. Another thing is that we have a very active, vibrant airline industry. We all know the story of Dubai; it is just their airport and their airline, simple. We also see Singapore, the thing that developed their commerce and their train and their finance and their Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is their aviation industry. I stand to be corrected on Dubai and on Singapore, and now recently, we are seeing Mauritius trying to come up. Currently, the case study now is Istanbul in Turkey. Now, they are building the biggest airport on earth to handle150 million people or more. That country’s airline has grown in leaps and bounds. And because they have the airline and because they are building capacity for the airport, that is why they are drawing people in and then, people are going out. So it is not magic, once you are able to have the vehicle that will bring into where you are and they go out, and you create a hub around you. Even, there is an argument now as to how, with the development of bigger, more capacity aircraft that will fly non-stop anywhere in the world, that maybe the days of hubs are phasing out. It is incorrect because people will get tired of flying 24 hours in that plane. Unless if you are going to begin to put beds under the cargo compartment and carry people. But, you must break the journey at some point and there must be interlining because we are not all going one direction, we are going omni-direction. Therefore, if that is the case, they will still play a major role and the only way you can do it is to have a robust airline, very good airports, and a vibrant industry. Just now I read statistics from my office that we have moved over 18 million passengers within the last year under review. We used to be at 15 million, but surprisingly the number has gone to over 18 million passengers. That is a huge development in our sector and this is also a sign that we are going in the right direction. So, there are more people flying now and propensity to fly is increasing in this sub-sector. With all these, Nigeria still requires a national carrier. What is the current situation at Enugu Airport? We have issues at Enugu Airport; I have been there three times. I also discussed with the governor on things to do, so that they can allow us to do the necessary work at the airport. I read in some newspapers, recently that Air Peace suffered bird strike at the airport and that the pilot had to make an air return. We sympathise with them on the bird strike and luckily, the pilot made an air return and there was no any further issue. The situation is that as you approach Enugu, there is a market there and the market is an abattoir, which naturally attracts birds and at the end of the runway also, you have this Free Trade Zone. The government is trying to establish a Free Trade Zone at the extended centerline of the runway. And we all know that Enugu is the Kaduna of the east, it is the centre headquarters of the East and the travelling passengers are always there and we also have international flights going in there. At a time, the State Government wanted to demolish some houses, which were close to the airport with a promise to compensate the owners. The essence of this was to expand the runway to make it 60 metres wide and 7.5 metres shoulders to extend the length of the runway. As at this period, there were only two or three houses around that side of the airport, but true to Nigerian attitudes, once they heard that they will be paid some compensation, houses just started to spring up in the area. Before you know it, within nine months, there have been too many houses in that place, which made it difficult for the government to go ahead with its plans. Since then, the government has been promising us that it will demolish the houses for us to continue. So, we can’t continue and I am afraid, just like you received the news when I said I will close down Abuja, I am afraid that Enugu will have to be closed down because honestly, I can’t take the risk. And I have said this to the governor. Please, please let’s get into Enugu once and for all, fix the runways, it is very important. Extend it, expand it and put all of the landing aids and so on, and that market must move. When I was a kid, we go to market 16 kilometers away and we trekked.  So, pushing it maybe two, three kilometers away will not do harm to anybody, we need to save lives. And to improve on the operations of Enugu airport, we have just spent several hundreds of dollars to do the new Enugu terminal. Who is going to go in there? No one! Ethiopian Airlines that is still going there now will stop going and in fact, if they don’t stop going, we will stop them from going there. So, I think the earlier the governor does his beat; remove that Free Trade Zone, remove the market and remove the state radio mast because it is directly on approach, then, we can go in there. Now, what we are doing is the cut and paste or ‘patchy, patchy’ in Nigerian language on the runway to ensure that it is safe for operations. Daily, our men are there fixing the runway, once you fix one section it fails the next week. This is similar to what Abuja was doing before we shut it down. It is just like what Group Capt John Ojikutu (rtd) has been saying.  The maintenance programme is in place, but the infrastructure has just completely dilapidated. If Enugu Airport is shut down, what will be the alternate airport, are we going to have something like the Abuja Airport situation? I can do this Enugu airport in style if I get the cooperation of the state governor. Although, the people are resisting, if I can get the airport free, I can do it and we will fix it. If I don’t, I have to shut it down and if I shut it down I will provide alternatives. If I provide alternatives, it will work and we will work on time and within time. How far have you gone with implementation of the various projects earmarked for the industry? From 2015 till date, we have about 157 projects for the sector, and we have completed 130, which were 100 per cent completed. 13 of them are above 50 per cent, while the other 13 of them are below 50 per cent. Also, we have done about 14 policies. This is just a summary of what we have done. This includes all the Abuja Instrument Landing Systems (ILSs) and everything that we have done. There are some of the projets that we met, but we ensured that we finished them. Our performance in this area is above 80 per cent or thereabout. It was so difficult to achieve all of these because we went through a lot of challenging times. You know the income of government has lessened, that is why sometimes you see aviation having 11 per cent of this on the budget. When you budget for let say N10bn and it has been reduced through some process to N6bn and out of that, only 11 per cent is released to you. It is only magic that can let you do some of these things, but luckily, we went through all of these and we are to announce that we have done 130 out of 157 projects. On meteorology, some countries like The Gambia, Liberia and Malawi, approached us to help them develop their own meteorology departments. This is part of the innovation of Dr. Benard Aliu, the President of International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) that ‘No Country is Left Behind.’ So, we just look around our neighbours and see what we can do to elevate them. These countries came forward and asked for our help. Besides, low level windshear, installed in Katsina, Ilorin and Kaduna airport. What are your plans for the international wing of Lagos Airport? For Lagos Airport, the contractors have given us a total of N14bn or thereabout to be spent as palliatives for its refurbishment. When you look at the airport from out, you will think everything is okay, but believe me, what is behind it, I was scared when I saw it because they carried out comprehensive investigation on it. First, the integrity of the structure and all of the services there; the cabling, some of them have melted together. So, we have to invest that N14bn into it and then later we try to do it again and make it multi-level, maybe two levels. And as you know, we don’t receive any Federal Government’s subvention in terms of Value Added Tax (VAT), we try to improve our income and block all those drainages and see how we can maximise the amount of money and fix these airports especially the one in Lagos. The Lagos Airport was built and intended for just 200, 000 people annually and now, the same terminal is doing eight million annually. The same structure is still in place, so, it must collapse.  People talked to me about the toilet, you see, it is that same toilet, the rate of use will literally make you keep the plumber there. It has been my headache for the last three years since I became minister, but luckily we have found a solution now. Someone said at that time that if we close down Abuja Airport that Nigeria will lose N40bn. You know these economists, you can’t argue with them, but where was the study done? Instantly I said I don’t believe in that because it is not backed by facts.  And I rather lose N40bn than lose a soul on that same runway. In fact I will rather lose N40bn than lose an airline flying into Abuja. We took that painful decision and it paid off. We were able to deliver on time, in fact I did before time. One of the major programmes of this administration was the concessioning of some of our airports, what stage are you now on this plan? I knew from the outset when I was appointed as a Minister of State for Aviation that I will go through this programme that is Public Private Participation (PPP) in nature. So, I applied to the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), an agency that is the regulator of such projects. And because of the issues we have been having with Bi-Courtney, I knew that I have to get it right. Bi-Courtney happened when there was no law establishing ICRC, where anything goes. But, now we have an entity called ICRC, who regulates all concessions. There is an Act of National Assembly in place and we will implement that. So, I applied and they sent an expert to our office. From the day I moved into office, they came. And their jobs is to go through what we intend to do, post it to ICRC. Concession is the only way to go because all these investments that we have done in the industry. This administration still has some projects to complete, are you bothered about continuity on some of these projects after May 29? Of course, government will continue. I am appointed by Mr. President; so, I am an appointee of an elected President.  It is at the whims and caprices of Mr. President.