defendants after they had forcefully taken over the land from the actual owners, allegedly threatened to kill Mrs. Okuniyi and others if they there enter the said property. Arraigning the defendants before the court on, the prosecutor, Barrister Morufu Animashaun, informed the court, that his department received a petition from the affected family and upon investigated the petition, the two defendants were invited for interrogation. He told the court further that upon conclusion of the investigation, they were found culpable of the allegations of conspiracy, land grabbing, threat to life and conduct likely to breach public peace. The offences according to the police lawyer, Morufu Animashaun are contrary to sections 411, 56(a) and 168(1)(d) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015 and 2(2) (3) of the Private (Property) Protection Laws of Lagos State, 2016. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges, their lawyer, Clinton Okorie, urged the court to admit them to bail in the most liberal terms. Though, the prosecutor, Animashaun, stated that granting bail is at court’s discretion, he however stated that the court should admitted with conditions that will ensure their presence in court. Ruling on the bail application, Magistrate Azeez Alogba, admitted the two defendants to bail in the sum of N200, 000.00 with two sureties in like sum. He also ordered that one of the sureties must be a family to the defendants with evidence of three years tax payment to the Lagos State government and means of livelihood. Alogba further directed the prosecutor to verify all the conditions, while adjourning the matter till June 14, for mention. Part of the charges against the defendants read: “that you Jimoh Salami A.K.A. Popular, Shafiu Lawal and others at large at sometimes in February and May, 2018, at Okuniyi Family Land situate, lying and being at Okunlofi Village via lse, Ibeiu-Lekki Local Government Area, Epe, Lagos In the Lagos Magisterial District, conspired among yourselves to commit a felony to wit: forceful land takeover and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 411 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State 2015.