Col. Bala Mande (rtd), former Military Administrator of Nasarawa State and ex-Minister of Environment.  In this interview with JULIET OYOYO, he spoke on former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s allegation on plots to Islamise Nigeria, among other issues. Excerpt: Former President Olusegun Obasanjo recently talked about ‘the Fulanisation of Nigeria’ by the Boko Haram insurgents and bandits. How do you see this comment and people’s reaction? Well, in the first instance, everyone has right to one’s views and opinions. It is a constitutional right. You have a right to air it to people and the people have the right to react in different ways. It is normal with life for people to air their opinions which may be positive to some people and negative to others. That is how life goes. So, there is nothing unusual about it. About Islamisation of the country, this has also been said before now by other people many times. But, you see when you listen to those talks, those are political talks. You know that no individual can Islamise all Nigerians as nobody Christianise all Nigerians. You cannot go to Akwa Ibom or Rivers states and say they must convert to Islam. You cannot also go to a state like Ondo and say everybody have to be Muslims. You can propagate your religion, but you have to allow people accept it or not. But, if you say, Boko Haram is an agenda to Islamise Nigeria, what is happening in Yemen? What happened in Libya? What happened in Syria? These are Muslim countries and those who are waging wars in those countries are doing it in the name of ISIS. So, if the ISIS say they are going to Islamise Syria, already as a Muslim state or, Libya who are already Muslims, or Islamise Yemen who are also Muslims, these are things happening not only in Nigeria, but also in Kenya, Chad and in Niger. What about the one in DR Congo? Do you understand me? We have these crises everywhere. We have bombings in Sri Lanka recently and these things are happening everywhere. Even though everyone has his rights to his views, there is need to have some respectability for the sensibilities of people. What we need in Nigeria is peace. Obasanjo is a highly respected person, not only in Nigeria, but internationally.He is a global citizen. So, when he speaks, people take it very seriously and with his position as an elder statesman, I do not know whether he was quoted out of context, because, I do not think he would have said it. So, he could have been quoted out of context. The Federal Government recently is reported to be working towards ensuring local government autonomy and many state governors are kicking against this move. How do you see this move? Well, we are operating a constitution which recognises three tiers of government; the Federal, State and Local Governments. This is enshrined in our constitution and it is being operated so. It is just like as we have the Principles of Separation of Powers, which is also in the Constitution which recognises the Judiciary, Legislature and the Executive and each and every one of these are performing its statutory responsibilities, separately, without obstructing the other. So, every lover of democracy should not kick against the local government in the country, instead, they be empowered to perform their constitutional responsibilities because they are the ones who are very close to the grassroots. Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, President of the Court of Appeal last Thursday stepped aside from Presiding as Chairman of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, which is sitting on the case between President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. Do you think it is justified? In short, I was surprised that Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa could hold on to that seat up till Thursday, because, as a judicial officer, she knows the laws which are applicable everywhere, internationally, Nigeria inclusive. There are conventions, there are laws and there are norms, that when a judicial officer is participating in a case under review for judicial dispensation and, if in any way, if himself or herself or any intimate person to her or her spouse, or members of the family, children, are going to benefit from the outcome of the judgment of that case, to benefit, directly or indirectly, that judicial officer should recuse or, disqualify him or herself from participating. With experiences and knowledge of Justice Bulkachuwa, we expected her, not even to pencil down her name as a member of the tribunal, talk less of being the Presiding Officer. It is only moral that she stepped aside. The traditional institutions have come under attacks recently, especially in the case of His Eminence, Sanusi Mohammed II, Emir of Kano, whose Emirate has now been split into four or five Emirate Councils. How do you see the future of traditional rulers in the country going by this example? I think the first thing to do is to look at laws establishing traditional institutions. I believe there is the need to give traditional rulers a place in the constitution. They need constitutional protection. This is the very foundation of our society; the traditional institution and they have a lot of responsibilities. They are not politicians, but then, they pick up roles when it becomes absolutely necessary for sanity to be achieved in this country. They need constitutional protection. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Godwin Emefiele, has been reappointed for another term of five years by the President. Do you think he deserves it? Well, the President can appoint whosoever he wishes to work with. That is his constitutional right. But, when there are insinuations or allegations about misappropriations, or monies missing to the tune of N500  billion as we see, I think Nigerians deserve explanations. It should not be swept under the carpet. An inquiry should have been conducted by reputable financial experts or a firm of international financial experts to verify the claims that N500bn is missing. I do not have anything against the reappointment, but, I think it was done in a hurry. They should have waited until the investigations result is out to see whether that allegation is confirmed or dismissed. As a retired Military officer, do you also believe with other Nigerians that the country is under siege? The country has internal security situations. But, it is not under siege. Our security agencies should be able to deal with these security situations. What solutions would you proffer that can get us out of these security challenges? I think the security agencies should be up and doing to overcome this situation. I cannot, right now proffer any solution because I do not have the full details of the situation. The National Assembly says it wants to give a ‘welcome package’ to incoming members running into billions of naira. At this present stage whereby the country is going through a lot of financial challenges, do you think this is a good idea? If it is included in their budgetary proposals and it is approved by both the National Assembly and the Presidency, then it has become a law.