Since the Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) made entry into the Nigerian market, the service providers have undoubtedly been reporting good numbers in terms of turnover and subscriber numbers.  But what has continued to baffle many Nigerians is, ‘why are the telcos operating in the country wary of listing their shares on the local bourses of countries’? In this report, MOHAMMED SHOSAYAN, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR provide insight. The recent listing of MTN Nigeria on the bourse of the Nigerian Security Exchange (NSE) has been reverberating among Nigerians who in turn are now strongly pushing for more telecos and other companies who ought to have been trading on the floor of the capital market by now to begin the process without further delay. In 2014, there were calls for private companies whose shareholders’ funds exceed N40 billion or their annual turnover surpasses N80 billion are converted to public liability companies with their shares listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Many stakeholders in the telecommunications industry have commended the National Assembly for the move through a Bill to ensure that telecommunications companies are listed on the Nigerian Stock exchange. The bill according to some lawmakers will help to build good business institution that will reduce the rate of unemployment and regulate private companies if proper funding is given to business owners or small companies in the country. Among the telecommunication companies being projected in the categories of target companies after MTN listing are Airtel, Globacom and Etisalat. MTN for instance, which got a licence in 2001 for the sum of $285 million allegedly financed mostly by Nigerian banks, at the same time between January and June repatriated about $5 billion as profit from their Nigerian operations. The same company which Nigerian group accounts for over 25% of the headline revenue of the MTN Group is listed on the Johannesburg stock exchange in South Africa. The issue of listing was eventually settled in 2016 when it was included in the terms of agreement for the resolution of the regulatory infraction on the unregistered 5.1m SIM lines. This resentment for local participation is not peculiar to the Nigerian market and it is not customised attitude of the MTN brand. Again, the experience in Zambia bore similarity to what happened to MTN Nigeria. In both countries, MTN is the largest operators. It was not until MTN Zambia had palpable apprehension that the country’s regulator, the Zambia Information and Communication Technology Authority (ZICTA) might impose sanctions on the company for failing to comply with the regulation, that the brand took positive steps to ensure listing on the Lusaka Stock Exchange (LuSE). While MTN Nigeria listing has been receiving accolades since it came to the capital market, it needs to be noted that it is not the first telecoms company to do so. In 2008, Starcomms, an erstwhile CDMA operator was the first mobile telco to be listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The private placement which raised over N64 billion, made Starcomms the first listed Nigerian telcos. The private placement provided the operator with a substantial amount of capital for future growth, and that private equity investors Actis and Emerging Capital Partners had both sold their respective stakes in the company. Speaking with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, a senior lecturer at University of Lagos, Dr. Augustine Eneanya, said the step MTN Nigeria has taken will go a long way in stimulating the capital market. He said other telecoms companies may come to the market floor before long without being coerced. “The listing of MTN Nigeria must have followed due process. The network has the spread and financial capacity to play in the stock market. Other telcos need to also assess their strength before emulating MTN. The success and survival of any company in the capital market depends on the market forces such as demand and supply. “I don’t expect other operators to rush into the market just because MTN is now on the floor of NSE. There are requirements for listing. Some of them are beyond just the size of an organisation. However, I will appreciate if other service providers which are yet to come on do their due diligence and list,” he said. In his view, a Lagos-based businessman, Mr. Oseji Mordi, charged the National Assembly and relevant authorities to take bold step to give Nigerians their dues by ensuring that telecoms companies in the country get listed. According to him, “All the telecom operators are big enough to be on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. But up till now, I am surprised as to why they have refused to do so. There is urgent need for them to get listed because some companies which are on the exchange are far smaller than all of them. “Nigeria will benefit from the companies’ management and profit sharing. Look at the quality of service level and rate of unsolicited adverts. NCC has been trying to check all these with much success. I strongly believe that things would be better for Nigerian subscribers and the telecom companies if they take the courage to go to the market.” Speaking further, Mordi said that the telcos have not been fair to the country and subscribers enough. “Over the years of their operations in the country, they have been giving us what they feel like. We have been at their mercy. Since they have refused to be listed on their own, it is high time the government compel them to do so,” he added. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) said that stakeholders in the sector have recently been making new investments to the tune of $5 billion every quarter. According to NCC, the portfolio investments in the sector have grown steadily from the sum of $70 billion recorded in 2017 to about $85 billion in the third quarter of this year. The regulatory agency said that the increased investments in the telecommunications have in turn led to an increase in how much the sector contributes to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product, GDP. “The investment in the telecoms sector as of 2017 used to be $70bn and this has been growing at about $5bn every quarter. The sector’s contribution to Nigeria’s GDP rose to 10.5 percent as of the end of June 2018, up from the initial 9.1 percent in 2016,” NCC stated. A former Commissioner with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Engr Steven Bello, said the listing of telecom companies on the exchange would boost the stock market and the economy as a whole. “The step taken by MTN is very commendable. It will further attract investment to the country. I am looking at a situation where about 10 per cent shares of each of the companies would be sold to the public in five years, and not more than 40 percent of their shares in eight years period. “The development will not affect the operators negatively in any way. After all, almost all of them have recouped their capital investment within a period of between five and six years. MTN has private shareholders. I think it is time the network and others go public,” he said. The calls at various times in the past,  on the major telecommunication companies to list their respective stocks at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) hit the brick wall as the operators have put up resistance. Their fear, according to the findings by Sunday Independent, was that listing at the Exchange will not only dilute shareholding structure, but it will also deny the current management the privilege of not having to keep secret their yearly performance, as annual statements must be made public if they are listed as public companies. In the face of lack of interest in listing on the NSE, industry insiders and market analysts said that only legislative fiat will compel the relevant companies and telecom firms to list their respective stocks at the Exchange. Last year, MTN Ghana got listed and sold about a third of the shares available in the initial public offering. The 1.1-billion cedis ($238m) raised was three times larger than the next biggest Ghana IPO. The sale attracted thousands of individual investors and vastly increases the number of shares available for buying and selling. “It’s been exciting because investors have been crying for such blue-chip stocks to be on the market,” Nana Kofi Agyeman Gyamfi, a senior analyst at Accra-based Bora Capital Advisors. “The IPO got a lot of retail investors, some of whom sold stakes in existing shares just to have enough money to buy MTN. It will lift the gloom on the market because of the past four years’ poor performance.” Africa’s largest mobile-phone company sold 1.5-billion shares in its Ghana unit at 75 pesewas each, a large addition to potential volumes on a market where 323-million shares were traded in the whole of 2017, according to data from the bourse. Of the 128,152 new shareholders who bought stock in MTN Ghana, 127,653 are retail investors. “The large size of the MTN offer will boost liquidity in the local equities market,” Ghana Stock Exchange Managing Director, Kofi Yamoah said. Similarly, Tanzania has been pushing for telcos’ listing. President John Magufuli, said the move to enforce such listing in the local bourse will bring more transparency and offer the public a share in the industry’s profits. During the 2016/17 budget debate, the Minister for Finance and Planning, Philip Mpango, said the law would help the government to trace the revenues of the telecom companies and enable Tanzanians to own shares in the sector. Tanzania is the second largest telecoms market in East Africa behind Kenya, with a penetration of 79 per cent of the total population, with subscribers estimated at 40 million in 2015. It was not the first time that the executive arm of the government had shown interest in the local listing of the telcos. In April 2015, the country’s Deputy Minister of Communication, Science and Technology, January Mkamba had reiterated that all telecom companies operating in Tanzania will be listed on the local stock exchange by the end of 2015, shortly after the telcos flouted the initial deadline to do so. According to him, “The mandatory listing on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange would enable Tanzanians to take a stake in and benefit from the lucrative industry that is the fastest expanding sector in East Africa’s second biggest economy.” One of the major capital market stakeholders, the  NSE President, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, had stated that most multinationals will be seen coming to list on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange before long. Indeed, the confidence of the statement cannot be undermined. According to him, “We are trying to keep encouraging Nigerians to invest in the market as this is the only panacea to bring confidence back to the market. We have tasked government on the need for multinationals to be listed and we are going to achieve this soon. While MTN Nigeria listing has been receiving accolades since it came to the capital market, it needs to be noted that it is not the first telecoms company to do so. In 2008, Starcomms, an erstwhile CDMA operator was the first mobile telco to be listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The private placement provided the operator with a substantial amount of capital for future growth, and that private equity investors Actis and Emerging Capital Partners had both sold their respective stakes in the company. The success of the initial celebration did not last long before the depressing side of the market overwhelmed the brand. Not only that it could not sustain the market expectations because of the pressure in the mobile market triggered by the domineering activities of the GSM operators, but was not protected enough by the stock exchange to provide the needed shield for the governance issues and technology differential between the CDMA and GSM of which the GSM has dominance in the market. By August 2012, a few years after its listing, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) announced the suspension of Starcomms shares because of a potential capital reconstructing exercise by Starcomms following its merger with two Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) operators, Multi-Links Telecommunications Limited and MTS. But in June 2014, Starcomms suffered its worst blow when the stock was delisted by the NSE. The company was among 20 companies that the NSE delisted for non-compliance with listing requirements. While 15 of the companies were delisted for failure to file their quarterly and annual financial statements, five others were delisted for failure to regularise their listing status after being given time to do so. Starcomms Plc was among those delisted for failure to file their financial statements. In 2008 the shares of Starcomms were listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange following the private placement which raised over N64 billion for the company. Whereas the fate that befell Starcomms may not likely hit MTN because of various factors such as the size of the company, the spread or network coverage, subscriber base, financial muscle and corporate governance among others, however, the same cannot be said about other telecom companies in the country. The telecom firms affect the life of virtually every Nigerian and business. For some years now, there have been calls for the firms to be compelled by government to bring public searchlight on the operations of the firms by initial public offers, IPOs. In 2011, former Central Bank Governor, Emir Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, durinf a summit in Abuja put an official face behind the calls for multinationals to list on the stock market. According to him, “Why can’t we have a law that will compel companies like MTN, Globacom and Shell to list on the Nigerian Stock Exchange? There is absolutely no reason. They don’t need to own 10 per cent of their companies and they don’t need to be held closely by a narrow range of Nigerians. At a time, countries like France, United Kingdom and America had legislations that ensured that any company that does business in those countries for a period of time is listed in their stock exchange. If in Nigeria we say any company doing business here for more than 18 months has to list or get out, they will comply. We have to get legislation for these companies to list.” Besides the telecoms companies, the government has been urged to encourage the oil producing companies also to list their shares on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. One of the central causes of the turmoil around the world is the failure to create a society where there is fair re-distribution of wealth. At least, 25-40 per cent of their shares is expected to be sold to Nigerians, to create a fair and transparent access of the people to ownership. Several benefits of listing have been highlighted. It is believed that it will reduce the chances of massive over- invoicing or transfer pricing, ensure that these companies pay the right level of taxes and also help to deepen the market. Others are wealth and income re-distribution, creation of transparent platform for Nigerians to own shares of the companies, given that they make huge profit from operating here, deepen the Nigerian stock market and give the signal that the market here is not about banking shares. To some industry analysts, the public listing of these companies would make them more accountable and make it difficult for the multinationals to evade or under- estimate their taxes. Also, the listing will allow indigenes to take equity interest in these firms, they would be under obligation to protect their infrastructure, reduce current incidents of vandalisation of their assets.