UYO – Elder Udoma Ubom Akpan, the 63- year-old father of a young man who was allegedly cut down in his prime by some suspected cultist in Nsit Ibom Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom state is crying for justice over the death of his late son Udoma Udoma Ubom. The man is appealing to the Inspector General of Police to use his good offices to ensure that the killers of his son are brought to book. In a chat with Daily Independent, in his home residence at No.5A Akpasak Street, Afaha Nsit, Nsit Ibom LGA, Akpan alleged that one Aniekan Moses Etuk and his cult members attacked and killed his 35-year-old son at about 9:30pm along the road, as he was returning from his friend’s house on the eve of the 2019 governorship and state House of Assembly polls. The bitterly enraged widower who is very upset over the untimely death of his son, vowed not rest until the perpetrators of the crime are brought to book. The bereaved father hinted that operatives of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Inspector General of Police from Abuja had successfully trailed Aniekan Etuk to where he was hiding at St. Christopher Avenue, Nung Udoe, in Ibesikpo Asutan local government area, but one Pastor (Mrs) Margaret Udoh, a divorcee, allegedly aided him to escape through the back door. He however expressed surprise and disappointment that Margaret Udoh, a pastor after assisting the suspect escape had told lies on the pages of newspapers that she was humiliated and brutalised by the policemen from IRT, Abuja. “I have not been a happy man since they killed my son, and I want Margaret Udoh to produce the principal suspect she assisted to escape. I went to the office of the Inspector General of Police in Abuja myself to request and bring the intelligence team to investigate the murder case so that it will not be swept under the carpet. “Many people witnessed and testified seeing him (Aniekan Moses Etuk) stabbed my son to death. About seven of them involved in the killing have already been arrested. “Pastor Margaret Udoh should apologise to the public for telling lies against the officers of the IG Intelligence Response Team (IRT). How can the IRT come all the way from Abuja to come and drag her naked and tried to rape her as she claimed, are they no women in Abuja for them to waste their time to come down to Uyo to rape her ?” He asked. He explained that he actually accompanied the police team to Margaret Udoh’s house on that Saturday, April 13, 2019, adding that her claims of being brutalised and humiliated by the police team were cooked up, and ridiculous. According to a statement made available to newsmen earlier in Uyo, Akpan stated, “I accompanied the IRT from Abuja who came to arrest Mr. Aniekan Moses Etuk the principal suspect that killed my son, where he relocated to Mrs. Margaret Etim Udo’s house at St. Christopher Avenue , Nung Udoe Ibesikpo Asutan LGA,. “The police team arrived the place after tracking Aniekan Etuk to the woman’s house. On sighting the police Hilux Van, the woman rushed and locked her gate. When she later started shouting armed robbers, armed robbers, the police team blew their siren to indicate that they were policemen. She decided to call the police control room and later the patrol team in Ibesikpo Asutan LGA arrived the place in response to her call. “The patrol team joined to plead with her to open her gate for the IRT to continue their duty; that they are not armed robbers as she had alleged, but she still refused to open the gate. We did not know that the woman was trying to pave way for Aniekan Moses Etuk to escape through the back door by jumping through the fence. “She finally opened her gate at about 1:30am after Aniekan Etuk had successfully escaped whereas we arrived at her place by 10:30pm The policemen were annoyed and decided to arrest her at that point. But there was no harm done to her, no breaking of doors, roofs as she alleged. “Aniekan Moses Etuk is the key suspect that killed my son, but that woman prevented the police from doing their job and aided her to escape, that is criminal. So I am appealing to the IGP to call the woman to order and urge her to produce the suspect who is her man friend, to face the wrath of the law for killing an innocent young man instead of deceiving the public with false allegation. “How can a woman who is a pastor tell lies that the policemen dragged her out of her house naked after she had stayed hours before opening her gate? I want her to be punished for hiding a murder suspect and for obstructing investigation of the murder case. “This murder case must get justice. I will not fold my hands and see this woman make me not to get justice over my son’s murder. I therefore appeal to the IGP to allow the police officers led by Akan Joseph to continue their investigation because I am convinced that they are competent to get the suspects” He lamented that his late son, a graduate of Ahmadu Bello University, ABU, and a widower left behind three children, two boys and one daughter. “The first son is just six years old. The first son is currently with my elder sister. They are now orphans because their mother died after the birth of the third child. So I am not happy at all”, he lamented. Meanwhile, Margaret Udoh, a divorcee and nurse had few weeks ago petitioned the IGP alleging how IGP’s IRT officers, had assaulted her sexually.