Leicester defender Harry Maguire will play his last game for the club tomorrow at Chelsea as he prepares to leave the club in the summer transfer window, according to Dailystar.co.uk reports. The England international star is poised to leave the King Power Stadium this summer with Arsenal, Manchester United, Chelsea and Tottenham hunting his signature. He is on course to play his final game for the Foxes at Stamford Bridge on Sunday afternoon in ninth-placed Leicester’s final Premier League match of the season. Maguire is set to take the next step in his career, having been linked with a move away from Leicester last year as well. He was the subject of interest from United when Jose Mourinho made the 2018 World Cup hero a prime target. But Maguire ultimately stayed and penned a new contract in September, tying him down at Leicester until 2023. However, the 26-year-old is now closer to the exit door than ever before. And according to The Sun, Leicester will see Arsenal, United and Tottenham become embroiled in a tug-of-war to sign Maguire ahead of the 2019/20 campaign. Chelsea, who Maguire will line up against at Stamford Bridge for the Foxes’ final Premier League match of the season, would also be in the mix. But their pursuit will depend on their fate with FIFA and their transfer ban, with the Blues having taken their case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport. The transfer window opens next week, and Chelsea will head into the summer not yet knowing whether they will be able to strengthen their squad. Arsenal, United and Spurs do not have such problems as their issues are on the pitch, especially defensively. Mauricio Pochettino needs a replacement at Champions League finalists Spurs for Toby Alderweireld, who is expected to leave for £25m due to the release clause in his contract. Unai Emery’s Gunners have arguably the weakest backline of their top-six rivals and Maguire would seriously bolster their defence. Shkodran Mustafi will be flogged at the Emirates this summer, while Arsenal’s first-choice centre-halves are ageing as Laurent Koscielny turns 34 in September and Sokratis Papastathopoulos is 31 next month. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer desperately needs a top-quality centre-half too – something Mourinho recognised prior to his December dismissal. The Sun add Leicester will demand £60m to entertain interest from the Premier League’s elite as Brendan Rodgers faces the prospect of losing the ex-Hull man-mountain. Champions League qualification could become a key factor yet in Maguire’s decision-making. United have fallen short and are bound for the Europa League, while Arsenal still have hope as they must beat Chelsea in the Europa League final on May 29.