LAGOS – Land tussles in Nigeria and in major cities like Lagos happen every other day. Not just because there is the constant contest for more space for the teeming number of people that migrate to the urban areas, but also as a result of our previously snail-like judicial system that takes decades to settle legal battles, as in the case of the Agidingbi land tussle, which spanned over four decades. In the first few days after the first Supreme Court judgment emerged, many of the residents, business and property owners in the affected areas would have gone through a myriad of emotions. But in the confusion, many did not consider the economic implications of the Supreme Court judgment and how it would affect the many businesses already located in Agidingbi and surrounding communities. Some of these businesses, including Cadbury Nigeria Plc, Mega Chicken, Addas Mall, Zenith Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, New Telegraph Newspaper, among others are faced with different dilemma of what to do if things take a turn for the worse and they are forced to move. Families who currently live in Agidingbi and environs can easily pack up and move to a new location, but how easy is it for a business so entrenched in its host community to simply relocate. Moving a company can be a daunting task, but already, establishments like Standard Chartered Bank have begun to take down their signs and fixtures in preparation for an actual move. For a company as big as Cadbury, it becomes a major challenge to pack up and relocate, because, asides the site on Agidingbi being their headquarters, their entire business has grown in leaps and bounds from that location. Cadbury has become such a landmark in Agidingbi community that the general area was named Cadbury Bus Stop. On the other hand, what are the economic implications of the judgment on a new establishment like the Addas Mall, which only commenced business a few months ago after construction ended? Asides the fact that such an investment cannot have started breaking even, profit for its rumoured owner is still a distant dream as the mall was yet to find its footing before traditional landowners came calling. While many had been oblivious to the fact that such a case was even being debated in court, others had ignored it, safe in the notion that the Lagos State Government would step in and save the day. Speculations were still on when the Lagos State Government issued a statement declaring its intention to initiate legal action against the purported land judgment that ceded a vast portion of Agidingbi and its environs to the Akinole family to ensure that the matter is finally put to rest. In the statement signed by the State Ministry of Justice under the aegis of the State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Adeniji Kazeem, the government expressed shock to hear that the State allottees on Government acquired land were, and are still being disturbed by the Akinole family who never challenged the land acquisition by the State Government. According to the document, “On the creation of the Lagos State in 1967, the first global acquisition of land was done in 1969 by the government (Notice No. 236) of the same year which was for 7,300 acres of land including Agidingbi and environ.” The statement added that the Akinole family “were not only aware of the 7,300 acres global land acquisition of the land by the Lagos State government in 1969 but are parties in the Originating Summons subsequently taken out by the Lagos State Government in Suit No. LTILS/35/89 to determine the persons entitled to compensation in respect of the 356.442 hectares of land acquired, including the land in Agidingbi Village, under the compulsory public acquisition of 1969.” The release further expressed surprise that the state government was not made a party to the lawsuit by Akinole family in a deliberate attempt to mislead the Court and get a judgment in its favour. The statement, however, noted that in order to forestall any breach of the peace which may lead to anarchy or any form of loss of lives and property, the State Police command has been directed to deploy its officers and men to the location. The government, therefore, assured the populace that it would forestall any further steps by the Akinole family or any other party to intimidate property owners in the affected areas pending final resolution of the matter. Despite the Lagos Government’s statement, smaller businesses in the affected area had begun to close shop and pack things up. Things got a bit more interesting when another family, that of late Chief Emmanuel Oyedele Ashamu, called for clarification of the affected properties in the areas the apex court awarded the Akinole-Oshiun family as they also have properties within the affected area. Whatever the outcome, it is apparent that the tussle is not one that affects companies and organisations in the district positively.