LAGOS – The operatives of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Federal Operations Unit(FOU), Zone ‘A’ have intercepted two containers of donkey hides valued at N15 billion. The donkey skin weighed 84,824kg. Customs Controller of the Unit, Comptroller Aliyu Mohammed disclosed on Wednesday during a press briefing. He said the animal skin were discovered at a location where they were being processed (dried) for export. According to the Customs boss, the actual location of seizure would not be disclosed in order not to jeopardise the on-going investigations which would lead to other seizures and arrest of suspects connected with it. He said hides and skin are among the items under export prohibition, adding that the essence was to prevent the animals from extinction. Other seizures shown to journalists include vehicles and drugs worth N16,082,092,706:00 The drugs, according to him, were intercepted on the road along the border area in Ogun State. He reiterated that codeine drugs are prohibited from being sold across the counter due to incessant abuses and smuggling into the country, adding that abuse of it endangers lives of citizens. “We have seized the skin in two containers. As you can see, this is massive. One can only imagine how many donkeys have been killed to have this large number of donkey skin in two containers. “We didn’t see the meat and it is possible they are being sold out to people as beef. As customs Officers, we are going beyond duty collection to protect lives of people. “This seizure is part of our effort to prevent the mass killing of donkeys and discourage people from seeing it as a business opportunity. “We also made seizures of codeine that is prohibited but was concealed with pain relief drugs without NAFDAC approved number valued at N101.6million. “Within one hour, our officers seized 13 vehicles last week. Now we have a total of 29 exotic cars including a 2019 Land Cruiser. Total duty paid value for the seized vehicles is N712,172,706. Mohammed added that the unit will intensify its onslaught against smuggling to suppress it for the protection of the economy and prevention of danger to lives.