Innocent Oweh;
Olusegun Koiki Abuja / Lagos – Although no Nigerian worker has received bank alert for the N30,000 national minimum wage recently approved by President Muhammadu Buhari, the organised labour, comprising of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC), has described the new wage increase as a most deserving gift for this year’s May Day celebration. However, the organised labour has started mounting pressure on governments at the federal and state levels to begin the implementation without further delay. Workers’ Day: Nigerians Call For Improved Security President of NLC and TUC, Ayuba Wabba, and Bobboi Bala Kaigama, respectively, expressed gratitude to the Federal Government while observing the May Day festivities at the Eagle Square, Abuja. They equally urged government to quickly finalise salary adjustment across the payroll of civil and public servants, noting that precious time had been lost in arriving at the new minimum wage. “We can look back at our engagement in the past one year and agree that we have had some significant wins. A major milestone in our struggle was the campaign for a new national minimum wage of N30,000. “The two chambers of the National Assembly passed the National Minimum Wage (2019) Amendment Bill in the first quarter of 2019. “President Muhammed Buhari gave his assent to the bill on 18th April, 2019. There is no better May Day gift as the N30, 000 new national minimum wage. “We commend the National Assembly and Mr. President for acceding to our demand for an increase in the national minimum wage, however, delayed. “As directed by Mr. President during the signing ceremony, all employers of labour must commence payment of the new national minimum wage immediately,” the two labour centres stated. Workers Will Determine Next Kogi Governor – NLC Chairman The unions and their affiliates also seized the opportunity of the event to assess the state of the nation, where they bashed the Federal Government on the rising debt profile. According to TUC and NLC, they were concerned over the increasing debt accumulation by governments at all levels. They quoted statistics released by the Debt Management Office (DMO) which, as at December 31, 2018, put Nigeria’s debt burden at N24.387 trillion, an indication that the Federal Government’s external debt increased by 42.69%, from N4.527 trillion in 2017 to N6.460 trillion in 2018. They said their worries stemmed from the fact that two-thirds of the government’s revenues went into servicing interest payments, with the principal still waiting for redemption at maturity. Labour said: “Even the Central Bank of Nigeria, through the Monetary Policy Committee, recently cautioned the Federal Government against Nigeria’s rising debt level. “The committee warned that except the Federal Government came up with measures to address the situation, Nigeria’s debt might rise up to the pre-2005 Paris Club level. “Nigerians would recall that in October 2005, Nigeria and the Paris Club announced a final agreement for debt relief worth $18 billion and an overall reduction of Nigeria’s debt stock by $30 billion. “The deal was completed on April 21, 2006, when Nigeria made its final payment and its books were cleared of any Paris Club debt. While noting that there is nothing wrong in borrowing in order to invest in physical infrastructure with the capacity of enlarging the public revenue base, the organised labour cautions government to ensure that the debt profile does not get toxic and return Nigeria to another milieu of debt trap. They also criticised the tax justice system being operated in Nigeria, which they argued was mostly skewed in favour of the rich and multinational firms. Wabba alleged that workers were the only ones paying correct taxes, while multinational companies operating within the system were given tax waivers, thereby stifling the government of funds to meet basic infrastructures. He also resisted attempts by the government to increase Value Added Tax (VAT), insisting that such measures would erode the little gains that would come with the new wage implementation. He said: “Available records show that only workers’ pay the correct taxes in Nigeria through the Pay As You Earn (PAYE) system. “Given the penchant for Nigeria’s rich and powerful to evade and avoid taxes, Nigeria’s tax-to-GDP ratio hovers around 14%. “Our stand on tax justice is that tax policies should not impoverish the already poor; rather, they should place more responsibility on the rich.” On insecurity in the country, labour tasked the Buhari administration to explore other means of ending the wave of armed robbery, kidnap for ransom and terrorism, saying the situation was getting out of hand. Eko DisCo Signs Conditions Of Service Agreement With Unions Meanwhile, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo stood in for President Muhammadu Buhari, who is currently in the United Kingdom on a private visit. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, was, however, absent at the ceremony. Sources alleged that the face-off between the Minister and the NLC over the inauguration of the board of the Nigeria Social Investment Trust Fund (NSITF) may have kept the minister away from the well-attended event. Why We Didn’t Retrench Workers During Recession —FG Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said on Wednesday that the recession that hit Nigeria in 2015, when the Muhammadu Buhari administration came on board, would have taken a toll on workers in the public sector if the Paris Club refunds were not handy to serve as bailouts. According to the vice president, the Paris Club refunds were also instrumental to the settlement of outstanding benefits of retrenched Nigerian Airways workers, who were owed for decades. The financial burden included arrears owed pensioners numbering 101,393 on all grade levels as well as 76,310 parastatals pensioners across 186 agencies. He made these remarks while speaking on behalf of President Buhari at the 2019 May Day festivities which took place at the Eagle Square, Abuja. While assuring workers that the new minimum wage would be implemented across board, he described the social investment programme of the government as the largest in Africa, with the N-Power programme currently employing 500,000 young Nigerian graduates and additional 75,000 in specialised training as builders, automotive technicians, and other vocations. “On assumption of office in 2015, in spite of the daunting economic challenges which confronted us at the time, we ensured that no worker was retrenched across the country. “We further kept faith with this commitment by providing bailout funds for states unable to pay salaries and other benefits in order to pay accumulated arrears. “We also released the Paris Club refunds owed since 2005 to make sure workers were not owed anything. “We also ensured the payment of outstanding benefits of retrenched Nigerian Airways workers owed for decades. “We also ensured the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) also paid arrears owed to parastatals and civil service pensioners covering 101,393 civil service pensioners on all grade levels and 76,310 parastatals pensioners across 186 agencies. “This is in addition to arrears paid to pensioners in the police and Customs Services in 2016 and 2018. “Our administration also settled the issue of benefits of Nigerian armed forces and paramilitary personnel who were dismissed and later pardoned for participating on the side of the secession in the course of the civil war from 1967-1970. All of these veterans have now been paid their benefits. “Our social investment programme is the largest of its kind in Africa, and it is directed at ensuring that we are able to provide opportunities in both the formal and informal sectors of the economy. “Indeed, the largest numbers of Nigerian workers are informal workers. Those comrades of ours who are petty traders, smallholder farmers, artisans and tradesmen also deserve our respect and the protection of all labour laws. “Our N-Power programme currently employs 500,000 young Nigerian graduates and additional 75,000 in specialised training as builders, automotive technicians, and in other vocations. “We have also expanded this programme to include technicians in animation and also specialists in other areas of technology. “Our Home-grown School Feeding Programme, where we now feed 9.5 million children daily in 30 states, provides opportunities for over 100,000 cooks and farmers across the country. “Our TraderMoni and MarketMoni schemes provide almost two million loans to petty traders in all states of the federation. At the Next Level of our administration, we intend to expand the scope of these micro-credit loans to traders and artisans. “Our Anchor Borrowers’ Programme has also provided over one million loans to smallholder farmers across the country. Already, that scheme is being expanded to cover yet another one million farmers across the country. “So, for this administration, the theme, ‘Another 100 Years of Struggle for Jobs, Dignity and Social Justice in Nigeria’, is not merely a headline for this May Day celebration.” How I Paid $30,000 Into Onnoghen’s Domiciliary Account – Agi Unions Vow To Shut Down NCAA Over ‘Obsolete’ Organogram Unions in the Nigerian aviation industry have vowed to shut down the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) over what it called obsolete organogram in the agency, which has prevented some promoted staff to be rightly placed. The unions also said there was no going back on its plan to ensure unionisation of workers in the country’s airlines before the end of the year. Illitrus Ahmadu, the President, Air Transport Senior Staff Services Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), stated this on Wednesday at the Workers’ Day celebration organised by the unions at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. Ahmadu stated that some staff of NCAA went through promotion exercise in the agency since 2017, but that till date none of them had been properly placed due to the ‘obsolete’ organogram in the agency. According to him, the NCAA was still operating with the 2001 organogram, which it commenced with when the entire staff of the agency was just 300. He said the management had refused to review it till date. He explained that as at date, 47 positions of Assistant General Managers (AGMs) had been extinguished, while directorates and departments had been merged. Ahmadu emphasised that the unions addressed the issue with the management of NCAA and a ministerial committee set up by Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation, only for the entire agreement to be upturned in Abuja by “some people in government”. He said: “As it is, there is lacuna in the organogram of NCAA. The management brought forward an obsolete organogram. Between 2001 till date, the organogram has not been reviewed. “At inception, NCAA had only 300 staff, but today it has grown to 1,200 staff, yet the organogram has remained unchanged. “Many people that did exams and passed, but till date they have not been placed. This one is unacceptable to us. If the situation continues, very soon we will shut down NCAA, and that we will do very well.” Also, Comrade Ben Nnabue, President, Nigerian Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), said it would ensure unionisation among the nation’s airlines. Unions Vow To Shutdown NCAA Over ‘Obsolete’ Organogram Nnabue also said the union would continue to resist the enslavement of its members in the catering sub-sector, Newrest ASL and ServeAir, to ensure their total emancipation, while the cleaning services, Skycare and Lakewood, would be added to the unions very shortly. Nnabue lamented that most of the indigenous airlines in the country had refused their workers from joining the unions, while the foreign airlines fully complied with the law on unionisation. He emphasised that any tactic deployed by the managements of the airlines would be resisted by the unions, stressing that the unions would continue to protect the interest of every worker in the sector. He said: “We shall continue to support our enslaved comrades in Newrest ASL and ServeAir to assure their total emancipation. “Skycare and Lakewood will be added to the mix very shortly. In the same vein, our workers emancipation programme will bring on board Air Peace, Med-View, Azman, Dana and all airlines, as well as all other aviation organisations yet to be unionised. “This will be achieved before the end of this year. Clearly, this is no mean task. But we all must rise up to this challenge. “We have to do it because we must do it. We do it for posterity. No single worker in the aviation industry will be left unprotected under my watch.” Besides, on the issue of conditions of service for workers, NUATE described this as pathetic. He alleged that most of the agencies in the sector had their conditions of service “wickedly ensnared by the Salaries Commission and Office of the Head of Service.” Apart from the agencies, he also mentioned Pathfinders Limited as one of the many companies whose managements had remained uncooperative on new conditions of service for workers. Wabba Urges Buhari To Address Salary Disparity In Civil Service