Paris Saint-Germain President Nasser Al-Khelaïfi has been charged with corruption over Doha’s bid for the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) World Championships, according to a French judicial official. As reported by the Associated Press, the official said the preliminary charge of “active corruption” had been filed in mid-May. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he or she was not authorised to talk about the investigation publicly. Al-Khelaifi is also the chief executive of Paris Saint-Germain, the Ligue 1 club owned by Qatar Sports Investments (QSI), the country’s sovereign wealth fund, as well as chairman of television network beIN Sports, which has its headquarters in Doha. He was recently elected by the European Club Association as club representative on UEFA’s Executive Committee. In March he was reportedly placed under the status of “assisted witness” by the National Financial Prosecutor’s Office for alleged “corruption” and “aggravated money laundering” in relation to Doha’s bid for the IAAF World Championships. At the heart of the investigators’ suspicions are two bank transfers, French newspaper Le Monde has reported. These money transfers were allegedly made on October 13 and November 7 in 2011 for a total amount of $3.5 million (£2.8 million/€3.1 million) to a company located in Senegal, Pamodzi Sports Consulting, which is owned by Papa Massata Diack, the son of former IAAF President Lamine Diack. These payments were provided for in a Memorandum of Understanding with Pamodzi Sports Consulting that Oryx Qatar Sports Investments pledged to purchase sponsorship rights and television rights for $32.6 million (£25.8 million/€29.3 million) provided that Doha was awarded the 2017 IAAF World Championships. It is claimed that Oryx Qatar Sports Investments is not part of QSI and is owned jointly by Al-Khelaïfi and his brother Khalid. Doha was overlooked for the 2017 IAAF World Championships – which were awarded to London – but in November 2014 was chosen to host this year’s event ahead of rival cities Barcelona and Eugene.