Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Season one of Killing Eve was such a huge hit on both sides of the Atlantic, it’s little surprise season two is definitely happening – and three for that matter, but more on that below… UK fans of the thrilling and witty series, starring Jodie Comer and Sandra Oh, will be excited to hear season two is currently airing on BBC America, and will begin airing on Saturday 8 June at 9.15pm on BBC One. Excitingly, in the meantime two first-look trailers have been revealed. The first (which can be viewed above) shows Villanelle recovering in hospital after Eve stabbed her at the end of season one. Eve can be seen telling someone on the phone that she’s concerned she might have killed the assassin, but of course, Villanelle is still alive and kicking. From the looks of the trailer, their cat and mouse relationship is as intense as ever, and Villanelle is still not squeamish about committing the odd murder. A second trailer shows Villanelle being the character we’ve all come to love, with some amazing looks and a scene in which she tells someone they can’t take a picture of her incredible outfit. With the new season on the way, Jodie Comer (Villanelle) has told ELLE: “The story picks up right from where we left off. Obviously Eve stabbed Villanelle, let’s not forget that, but what’s going to be really interesting for the audience is how Villanelle reacts to that. It may not be as they suspect it will be. “She’s never just straight-up upset about anything. She sees the world in a different way, so it would have a different impact on her I think,” she added. Sneak peek images emerged of filming, and one in particular is very interesting. An image of Jodie Comer (Villanelle) and Kim Bodnia (Konstantin) shooting a scene has been released, causing speculation that Konstantin in still alive after all. Of course, Villanelle shot her handler in season one after kidnapping his daughter, and as far as we were told, the wound was fatal. This new image could suggest that was false information, unless the pair are filming a flashback scene. We’re sure all will become clearer soon… Here’s what else we know so far about Killing Eve season two. KILLING EVE SEASON 2: WHO’S IN IT?
Of course, Sandra Oh and Jodie Comer will return as British operative Eve Polastri and assassin Villanelle to continue with their thrilling cat and mouse game. Also returning is the mysterious Carolyn, played by the Olivier Award-winning Fiona Shaw. While Kim Bodnia’s character Konstantin was supposedly fatally shot by Villannelle in season one, there is speculation that wasn’t the case and we could see him return. In terms of new faces, according to Digital Spy, W1A’s Nina Sosanya is joining the cast as well as Edward Bluemel (The Commuter) and The Mighty Boosh’s Julian Barratt. Fleabag writer Phoebe Waller-Bridge was the lead writer on season one, however for season two that role was taken over by Call The Midwife star Emerald Fennell. Phoebe has remained involved as executive producer on the new season, which was filmed in Amsterdam, London and Paris. Speaking about Emerald’s work on season two, Jodie Comer told Harper’s Bazaar UK: “It’s so funny when you finish a series you think – ‘where are we going to go from here?’ – and the writer then brings out all this wonderful stuff we just didn’t think of. At first I was apprehensive, but then when we started working on scripts and rehearsing, it was clear that we were in safe hands. “I’ve been really excited by the script, and where the characters go,” she added. KILLING EVE SEASON 2: WHAT’S IT ABOUT?
Season one was based on Luke Jennings’ Codename Villanelle novella series but as of yet its unsure where season two will draw its inspiration – one thing’s for sure though, it’s going to be gripping. KILLING EVE SEASON 2: WHEN’S IT BACK ON TV?
The series begins airing on Saturday 8 June at 9.15pm on BBC One and will be available to stream on BBC iPlayer in the same month. KILLING EVE SEASON 3: IS IT HAPPENING?
Yep, the beeb has confirmed season three is happening. “The BBC has acquired the third series of the critically acclaimed and award-winning spy thriller, Killing Eve starring Sandra Oh and Jodie Comer,” the channel said in a statement. Charlotte Moore, BBC Director of Content, added: “It’s fantastic news that there will be a third series of this award winning hit drama and we’re delighted UK audiences will be able to see Killing Eve exclusively on the BBC. In the mean-time Villanelle and Eve will be returning to BBC One and BBC iPlayer for a second series soon.”