Powered by RubiQube Ad Network NELSON EGWARE A vivid assessment of the four-year development trajectory of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s administration in Delta State suggests a clear and systematic departure from the past when most major achievements were concentrated in the urban areas. During his inauguration on May 29, 2015, Gov. Okowa in his inaugural address, told the good people of Delta State that his administration would “pay a special attention to rural development because majority of our people live in the rural areas.” In an explicit commitment to rural development, Okowa emphasised that his administration would open up the rural areas, create more urban centres, develop fresh economic opportunities and reduce pressure on urban cities to boost socio-economic expansion and give rural dwellers a sense of belonging by equipping and modernising some satellite towns. To actualise this, the governor, as an ingenious leader and a man who keeps to his promises awarded Kefas Road in Oleh as well as the Ozanogogo-Alisimie Road in Ika South Local Government Area. Four years down the line in the saddle, one is impressed to note that Governor Okowa’s administration in spite of the adverse effects of the economic recession in the country has been able to record remarkable feats in line with his SMART Agenda to entrench prosperity for all Deltans, ensure good governance, peace and security as well as alleviate the sufferings of the people. The policy thrust of the administration has remained grassroots-oriented, focusing on developing the rural communities through concentration of massive infrastructural development in the most remote and neglected areas across the state’s 25 councils. Okowa’s recent visit to Oboghoro in Warri North Local Government Area and Burutu in Burutu Local Government Area to personally commission road projects and Housing Estate in the riverine communities, is a clear evidence of his commitment to rural development. This has indeed, endeared him to the masses, as a caring and popular leader. This is also evident in the over 357 road projects awarded across the state’s 25 Local Government Areas. While some of the projects have been completed and inaugurated, others are at the advanced stage of completion. It is, therefore, worthy of note that Okowa’s administration in the last four years, despite the harsh economic climate in the country, has fulfilled virtually all the promises as contained in his inaugural address and is also in full flight fulfilling other people-oriented programmes scattered all over the state. For instance, the state government has completed and inaugurated the intractable Issele-Uku Idumu-Ogo Obomkpa road and the Ukwunzu road in Aniocha North Local Government Area, which were hitherto, marred by serious setbacks in the past and a nightmare for the people of the area. The administration has also completed the long stretch of Umunede-Otolokpo-Ute-Okpu- Ekuku-Agbor-Ndemili-Umutu Road in Ika North East, Ika South, Ndokwa West and Ukwuani local government areas, which were constructed to decongest the area for easy movement of traffic. Other massive road projects completed and inaugurated so far by the Okowa-led administration include: dualised Jesse Township Road, the Jesse Boboroku Road in Ethiope West Local Government Area as well as the Owerre-Olubor/Ekwuoma Road in Ika North East LGA and the recently commissioned Old Lagos Asaba Road Agbor, the Owa-Eke Owa-Alero Road. The Amekpa/ Afiesere/Ofuoma road linking Ughelli North and Ethiope East, Old Ozoro Oleh Road linking Isoko North and Isoko South as well as the Owhelogbo Abbi road linking Isoko North and Ndokwa West and the dualisation of Amukpe Sapele Road are some of the governor’s achievements on rural road construction. On the Beneku River, Okowa has awarded contract for the construction of a bridge to link the oil rich Kwale and Beneku community in Ndokwa East LGA, which will connect over 10 adjoining communities to their headquarters, Aboh, and save the people of the areas the pains of having to pass through other Local Government Areas to be able to access the council headquarters. For the people of the affected communities who hitherto maneuver the river through a pontoon, it is a dream come true and a heart full of gratitude to Gov. Okowa for coming to their rescue when it mattered most. For the people of Ovwor-Olomu and Effurun-Otor in Ughelli South Local Government Area, their joy knew no bounds when Governor Okowa awarded the construction of a road and bridge to link both communities which hitherto travelled long distances through Ughelli North LGA to be able to access each other. Concrete work has been completed while the earthwork (linkage) is at the final stage. As testified by ex-Mend Leader, Freedom Adowei, “Under Okowa, riverine communities across the state have been receiving government attention more than ever, with some transforming into visible living communities” he said, adding “If you go round you will see how the governor is being commended for the construction of roads in riverine communities such as the Okerenkoko Road in Gbaramatu Kingdom, Warri South-West, Sokebolou/Obotobo Road in Ogulagha Kingdom, Burutu Township concrete road pavement and others, all within Burutu Local Government Area of the state, as well as other parts of the riverine Delta.” During the commissioning of the Aviara/Araya/Okpare/Okpawa road, Irri College/Uzere road and the Owhelogbo Abbi Road in Isoko South and Isoko North Local Government Areas, the Council Chairmen Hon Itiako Ikpokpo and Hon Emmanuel Egbabor both thanked the governor for not restricting developments to the urban areas. In their separate speeches, they both commended Governor Okowa’s administration for not restricting his development programmes to cities, but, spreading projects across rural areas in the state. The Esama of Ukpedi Kingdom, Ughelli South local government area, Olorogun Okiemute Okwagbe, also commended Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, for the awarding and construction of the Ekakpamre/Okwagbe communities road project and Owhahwa/ Otu,-Jeremi Road. He noted that what Governor Okowa did was in fulfilment of his electoral promises to Deltans in general and Okwagbe community in particular, describing Governor Okowa as a detribalised leader with a vision to make Delta truly great. The Odogwu of Okpanam, Chief Peter Dunkwu (JP), equally commended the efforts and tireless enthusiasm of the Commissioner for Information, Chief Patrick Ukah in ensuring the accelerated development of Okpanam community, urging him not to relent in this direction for the overall benefit of the community. He said that the community shall remain grateful and supportive of the Okowa administration because of the government’s active involvement and developmental strides in Okpanam, especially in the issues of Madonna School for Children with Special Needs, Okpanam, Oruchi Comprehensive Secondary School, Okpanam High School as well as the road constructions in the various parts of the community and its environs, which are currently ongoing and for everybody to see. The story is not different for the people of Uduophori in Patani Local Government Area where Governor Ifeanyi Okowa again broke new grounds to provide access road for the people. While the road has been completed, the people of the area are overwhelmed with excitement and appreciation to the governor for the vision and courage to embark on the work on such a difficult terrain to alleviate the sufferings they pass through in accessing their ancestral home. The above are just tips of the icebergs of massive and verifiable infrastructural development going on in the rural areas in Delta State under the watchful eyes of Gov. Okowa. Apart from the remarkable impacts in rural development, which is the focal point of the administration, Gov. Okowa’s administration has also made a mark in other spheres of development. These include education, agriculture, health, workers’ welfare, peace initiatives, security, job creation, enhanced social services and good governance, prudent management of resources, etc. All these are consistent with the SMART Agenda of the Okowa administration. The state government also made significant intervention on rehabilitation of failed sections of vital federal roads in the state to alleviate the pains, which road users had experienced in the past. His commitment to the welfare of workers in the state and his sustained cordial relationship with Organised Labour has remained firm as evident in the regular payment of salaries and pensions as well as his assurances of paying the N30,000 minimum wage, while still executing capital projects even when most states are unable to do so. *Egware is Special Assistant, Media, to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa