Lagos – The curtain will fall on the 2018/2019 English Premier League today with all but the heavily contested winner position decided already. As is regular during season-end situations, clubs will be battling to either avoid relegation or entering into playoffs or even winning the league itself. But for who will emerge the current premier League champions, all other positions have been decided. For relegation, the trio of Cardiff, Fulham and Huddersfield have confirmed their position in the English Championship next season. Cardiff are 18th on the table with 31 points from 37 games, five points behind 17th placed Brighton, who held Arsenal last week to be fully assured of their safety. Fulham are on the 19th spot while Huddersfield are last on the table. For the top four chase, both Chelsea and Tottenham have nicked the ticket, on the strength of which, they have joined both Manchester City and Liverpool for next season’s UEFA Champions League. On 71 points, Chelsea are at home with the top four ticket, while Tottenham, on 70 points, must avoid defeat at the Tottenham Hotspurs Stadium on Sunday to be fully assured. An unlikely defeat for Spurs from Everton and Arsenal defeating Burnley by as many as seven goals will knock the Lilywhites out of the top four, a situation analysts have said was a near impossible postulation. Pundits have said that Arsenal’s best gateway to the Europe’s premier club competition is the Europa league but in competitions of this magnitude, qualifying for the final presents almost equal opportunities to the remaining teams. When Arsenal lost three matches against Crystal Palace, Wolverhampton and Leicester City, pundits had expected The Gunners to take advantage of their remaining fixtures to possibly break into the top four but a draw at home to Brighton last weekend all but put paid to their hope of finishing in that region on the table. Even Coach Unai Emery understood the situation after that result. “We knew it was going to be difficult but our focus is now the Europa League,” Emery, who won the competition three times in a row with Sevilla, told BBC Sport. We have the opportunity in the Europa League to do something important and we will try and do that.” But today, all eyes will be at two venues as Manchester City will attempt to seal their fifth topflight title with a win over Brighton at the American Express Community Stadium. Also at Anfiled, The Reds will try to win over giant killers, Wolverhampton, and wait for the result from American Express Community Stadium to see if they have won their 19th topflight title. It is obvious that the fans of Liverpool will have their ears fixated on hearing results from the American Express Community Stadium. With just a point separating The Citizens at the top of the EPL from The Reds in second position, Manchester City must either lose or draw on Sunday and Liverpool beat Wolves in order for the latter to win the title. Analysts understandably believed that Liverpool showed less seriousness; otherwise they would have wrapped up the league even before now as they led with seven points as recently as January. But successive draws meant that Manchester City caught up with them and even led with one point heading into Sunday’s final round of games. The surest way for City to emerge champions today will be to beat Brighton and then rubbish any other result that could come out of the Liverpool/Wolves game. But accordingly, there are other possibilities that could come up and swerve the title to City even if they lose. Let us consider them. A defeat on Sunday wouldn’t end City’s title hopes if Liverpool can only draw – provided there aren’t a couple of extraordinary results. For the above to work in Liverpool’s favour, City would have to avoid defeat by five goals as the Blues have a goal difference that is +4 better as things stand. A 4-0 loss to the Seagulls and a Liverpool draw would still see City crowned champions by virtue of more goals scored – unless Liverpool drew 5-5 which would see the title goes to Merseyside. And there is one more, highly unlikely possibility to consider – a Premier League title play-off between City and Liverpool might be in the offing. For that to happen, only one set of results would see both City and Liverpool end with identical goals scored and goals conceded records, and that is a 4-0 defeat for The Citizens and a 4-4 draw at Anfield. After a difficult campaign, now Coach Hughton must decide if his team will have a go against City or aim to do what they do very well – frustrate and sit deep in numbers. Recall that Brighton’s record against the top six teams is defensively quite solid. Only Chelsea have beaten them comfortably (3-0) and that was when they were in the middle of a horrendous run of results last April. The only other top six side to win by more than one goal was City, who won 2-0 at the Etihad in the reverse fixture. Turning to Wolves, Liverpool will write them off at their own peril after the recently promoted side have churned out results against virtually all the top sides. Meanwhile, analysts believe that whatever happens today – whether Manchester City or Liverpool end up as Premier champions – the world should all just stand up and applaud them both. Second place will, of course, be deeply disappointing for any of the sides having worked so hard, but Pep Guardiola and Jürgen Klopp will remind themselves just what an incredible achievement they have made pushing close to 100 points in what many believe was the most competitive top league in the world. This is one of the closest Premier League title races in years and – with just one game remaining – fans are analysing every potential twist and turn of the run-in. Liverpool have gone on 16 unbeaten run in the league with their last loss coming on January 7, 2019 when they were beaten by today’s opponent, Wolves 2-1. It is almost similar record with the league leaders, Manchester City. They played Leicester City on Monday and but for Kelechi Iheanacho’s poor finishing in the dying minutes of the game, they would have been licking their wounds. The Foxes held them for a longer period of the match but Captain Vincent Kompany scored in the 71st minute to regain the leadership of the table heading into the decisive match today. The Citizens lead the table with 95 points from the 37 games played so far, one points above The Reds, who will be praying that Brighton cause an upset on Sunday for them to wrestle the title from the former. However, Skysport quoted Jurgen Kloop as saying that he was not giving up on the title even though he admitted that it now remained a big problem for his side. Just like how it has been all these while, the coach has handed the initiative to Manchester City, believing on the unpredictability of football to snatch the title from The Citizens. “As it has remained sometimes from now, it is not in our hands but we are going to fight till the end and see how and where we will be. For now, it is them (Manchester City) holding the aces and they have played really well to be where they are right now. But we are not giving up until the last minute.” Pep Guardiola, speaking after the win over The Foxes that has put them in poll position to win their sixth title, expressed joy at the win. He said that since the title was theirs to lose, he would approach the away game against Brighton with all the seriousness it deserves. “One game left – it will be so tough like today – we are away and we saw Brighton had a good game at Arsenal,” Guardiola told BBC Sport. “But it is in our hands, don’t forget but we could have been 10 points behind if we lost to Liverpool here (on January 3). “We were seven points behind, but we are in the last game and it is in our hands. We are going to prepare well. “We’ll see if Brighton defend deep or will be more offensive. It will be tough, but hopefully, we will have the performance to be champions.” Speaking further, Guadiola said: “We didn’t concede one corner or one shot on target. Sometimes you need a goal; like today (against Leicester City). It was outstanding the way we played the second half, the character and the personality. “Knowing how difficult it is and to handle the emotions. Knowing if we do not win, we cannot be champions. We have pressure because it is in our hands. We deserve to be in that position we have one more game and we will try.” The hero of the night against Leicester City, Vincent Kompany, said it was not over yet even as he relished the goal that will go as a vital one for the club. “I always feel am going to do something and today was a little bit of frustration because everyone was saying don’t shoot, don’t shoot and I could really hear it,” the 33 year old told Sky Sport. “And it was annoying me and I said I will not come this far in my career for young players to tell me whether I could take a shot or not. So I just took it. “It was a big goal, we have not achieved anything but it was an important win against a strong team.” The Opta Numbers Behind Man City, Liverpool’s Dominance It has been the greatest Premier League title race for years, but how have Manchester City and Liverpool thrashed the competition? Manchester City and Liverpool arguably both deserve to be Premier League champions, but only one team can claim the title. City are strong favourites to defend their crown, needing a win at Brighton and Hove Albion to guarantee top spot, while anything less will open the door for the Reds to clinch glory with victory at home to Wolves. The Seagulls will not be a walkover, but with City having won 13 Premier League games in a row they will surely not stumble at the final hurdle. So how have Liverpool and City been so far clear of the competition this season? Omnisport takes a look. Defensive Dominance Liverpool and City are both brilliant going forward, but it is arguably their resilience at the back that has seen them march clear of the chasing pack. Both teams have kept 20 clean sheets in the Premier League this term, with Brazil internationals Ederson and Alisson going head-to-head for the Golden Glove in Sunday’s action. City have kept clean sheets in each of their past four games – helped by club captain Vincent Kompany returning for the run-in – while Liverpool’s 22 goals conceded is level with City’s record as the best in the league by some distance. For comparison, Tottenham’s 37 conceded is the nearest anyone has got to the top two. Mistakes have been few and far between from either side. City have only made two errors leading to goals all season in the Premier League, while Liverpool’s four is only worse than Chelsea and Wolves on three apiece. West Ham’s 14 errors leading to shots on goal is the lowest in the division but City have only made one more, with Liverpool on 16. Controlling The Ball Pep Guardiola’s philosophy is well known and City have followed his plans to the letter this season. They have recorded a league-high possession figure of 67.91 per cent, with Liverpool ranking third behind the arrival of ‘Sarriball’ at Chelsea. It is no surprise to see City top the table for passes, with their 25,784 more than a thousand over Chelsea’s tally. Again, Liverpool sit third – on 23,033 – with Jurgen Klopp’s side employing a pacier style. Crucially, when City do lose the ball they tend to win it back very quickly. They have recovered possession in the final third 194 times this season, more than anyone else in the league. Even Klopp’s ‘Gegenpressing’ at Liverpool has only yielded 181 recoveries here – behind Chelsea and Everton. Bernardo Silva’s energy has also been key for City. The two highest distances covered in the Premier League this season both belong to the Portugal international, who ran an amazing 13.707 kilometres against Liverpool in January and a fraction under that versus Spurs in October. The upshot of City’s mastery of possession means the 232 shots they have faced in the Premier League this term is comfortably the lowest in the top flight, with only 81 of them on target. Liverpool rank second for both metrics, facing 300 shots in total and 95 on target. Clinical In Attack Having plenty of the ball and being solid defensively is only half the job, of course, as putting the ball in the back of the net is still the hardest part of the game. Fortunately for City and Liverpool, they do not find this too difficult. With 91 goals scored going into the final weekend, City lead the way from Liverpool on 87. If you don’t buy a ticket, you cannot win the lottery, and City have had more shots (663) than anyone in the division while their 251 efforts on target is also far clear of the other 19 teams. Mohamed Salah’s 22 goals and eight assists give him 30 goal involvements in total, one behind Chelsea star Eden Hazard. But City have two players in the top four: Sergio Aguero (28 goal involvements) and Raheem Sterling (27) with the Argentina attacker having played 32 games to Salah’s 37. Sterling (17 goals, 10 assists) is one of only three players to have recorded double figures for both goals and assists in the Premier League this season, joining Hazard (16 goals, 15 assists) and City team-mate Leroy Sane (10 goals, 10 assists) in an elite club. Perhaps surprisingly, Arsenal have the best shot conversion rate in the league at 15.56 per cent, but Liverpool are only marginally behind on 15.48. Who knows how many points City may have accrued had they improved on a comparatively low 13.73 per cent, but they will likely have another Premier League title to comfort them.