The Federal Government last Wednesday accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Atiku Abubakar, its 2019 presidential candidate, of working to sabotage the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, alleging that they were making desperate efforts to scuttle the May 29 inauguration of Mr. President for his second term. Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, who addressed State House correspondents, warned that such unpatriotic and desperate opposition politics could be toxic for the nation’s democracy, if left unchecked. He said: “Never in the history of politics in Nigeria has an opposition party and its presidential candidate exhibited the kind of desperate tactics being deployed by the duo of the PDP and its flag-bearer, especially since President Muhammadu Buhari overwhelmingly defeated Atiku to win the 2019 presidential election. “Either by themselves or via their proxies, the PDP and its presidential candidate are doing everything possible to sabotage the Buhari administration, generally overheat the polity and make Nigeria seemingly ungovernable, especially through their public utterances and their poorly-thought-out press releases before and after the 2019 general elections. “Unless they quickly retrace their steps, they may, sooner than later, overreach themselves. “For those who may be quick to accuse the government of crying wolf, the pre-election statement credited to the former Vice President, that unless Nigerians vote out the APC Administration, killings by herdsmen will continue and ultimately spark a series of ethno-religious crises that will be irreversible, is looking more like a Freudian slip than anything else. “And either by coincidence or orchestration, a faceless group emerges from nowhere calling for an overthrow of a democratically-elected government, a totally egregious act of treason. “It beggars belief that a candidate who prides himself as a democrat can so allow desperation to becloud his sense of propriety to such an extent that he will be associating with anti-democratic forces or making inflammatory statements. “What is not acceptable is to either resort to self-help after an election defeat, or to embark on a journey of subterfuge and sabotage while also mounting a legal challenge or pretending to do so. “Worst still, painting the judiciary bad for whatever reason is anti-democratic and unconscionable.” The minister urged PDP to stop beating the drums of war but to concentrate on the “legal challenge by its candidate against the election of President Buhari if indeed they have any faith in the country’s judiciary.” However, a cross section of Nigerians has been wondering if the Federal Government was not raising false alarm bearing in mind that Atiku and his party are at the tribunal over the presidential election. Nobody Is Threatening FG, Buhari – Don Dr. Maison Efeduma Gbokoda, a Benin-based university lecturer, said: “A bad workman is always blaming his tools. I am not a politician, I only joined other Nigerians to vote for Buhari in 2015 with the hope that he would perform. He has proved that he is not competent or has no idea of how to rule the country. So, I didn’t vote for him in the last election for the simple reason that I don’t want to hear this type of complains. “If the Federal Government had discovered that the oppositions are trying to scuttle the inauguration what are they supposed to do? I believe that nobody is threatening them, but their failure to deliver. They should tell Nigerians that they have failed in all aspects of governance. “I was reading in one of the business newspapers last week that one of the big toiletries producing companies in Lagos has closed down and sent over 12,000 workers into the labour market as a result of the bad policies of this administration. The paper also reported that many other companies will follow. My advice to Nigerians is that they should prepare for the worst in the next four years.” FG Is Just Being Sentimental, Courts Can Stop Inauguration – Lawyer Mr. Greg Ofodile, Awka-based lawyer, described the allegation as false alarm. He noted that this would not be the first time an elected officer was not sworn in on a particular date because the constitution says, “Until another person is sworn in.” He said: “It is not a must that the President must be sworn in on May 29. The court can make an order stopping the inauguration until another person is sworn in. “It happened in Anambra (old Anambra) in 1983 between Chief Jim Nwobodo and Chief Christian Onoh because they were hurrying to beat October 1, but Supreme Court said no, stop; and on October 1 Onoh was not sworn in. So, it is not scuttling the inauguration, people are just being sentimental. If you have courageous judges, it can be stopped until another person is sworn in.” FG Just Wants To Silence Opposition – Commentator Dr. Lawrence Ezeike, Minna-based commentator said: “I disagree with the Federal Government’s assertion that PDP and Atiku were making desperate efforts to scuttle inauguration of President Buhari. It is not as bad as being painted by Lai Mohammed, who to me, is rather overshooting his guns in  trying silence the opposition not minding weather any results is being achieved or his utterances are backfiring on the government. “I would rather say that the minister is the one raising the alarm capable of overheating the polity by his wild and unsubstantiated allegations against the opposition party. How many times did President Buhari contest election as civilian before he finally got elected in 2015? Can anybody remember some of his comments after the many times he lost the elections? “We all remember the mayhem that caused the deaths of many NYSC members, including my own cousin, the last time he lost as there were widespread killings in many core northern states. It appears that our laws change when it comes to a section of individuals, while others have the toga, ‘Above the Law’ ascribed to their names and identities as they have immunity to do anything and get away with it. “Nigerians are getting wiser. They are particularly interested in knowing how the February 23 Presidential elections were conducted, collated, results declared and winners announced. It is not about Atiku Abubarkar, Uche Secondus or any of the opposition voices demanding clarity, but setting records straight for posterity sake. “This is not the first time an election that produced the number one citizen of this country will be challenged. It is not about who is demanding for stolen mandate, but about Nigerians eager to know who did what right or wrong that led to the widespread electoral irregularities which, if properly handled , will serve as future references. “Adams Oshiomhole, the immediate-past Edo State governor and ruling APC National Chairman chairman, is a beneficiary of this when his mandate was allegedly stolen, but through the judiciary, the declaration of Prof. Osunbor, if I am correct, was upturned in his favour. So, I want to see what is happening in Nigeria today as proof of the integrity of Mr. President in doing what is right in the given circumstance and not what Lai Mohammed is saying. “The minister is raising false alarm and I fear his affront could spring up other issues that could pose national security threats and credibility question of the entire system. He should stop talking about a matter that is before the tribunal or the courts and allow those who know better to do the job and tell Nigerians what happened, who got what number of votes with facts and figures from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).” Atiku, PDP Trying To Recover A Mandate They Believe Was Stolen – PPC Chief Chief Ohiaku Nkwachukwu Nwaforo, Chairman, Providence Peoples Congress (PPC), Okigwe LGA, Imo State, stated: “In Igbo, there is an adage which says that ‘any woman who loses a child, usually cries heaven and earth.’ Atiku and his PDP are bitter with the result of the last election because they believe that they were robbed of victory. They are making desperate moves to reclaim their mandate. Do not forget that majority of the people believe that PDP won the election. The Federal Government may have interpreted this as a plot to scuttle the president’s inauguration.”