Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Love Island 2019 cast has only just been announced, but with just days to go before the first episode drops, there’s already controversy for a handful of Islanders. Tommy Fury’s ex-girlfriend is claiming that the new Islander ‘ended things with her’ in order to appear on the show. It’s also been claimed that he’s now wiped all traces of her from his social media. Speaking to the Daily Star, Millie Roberts says she was stunned to see he was going to be a contestant. She claims Tommy, who is the younger brother of professional boxer Tyson Fury, ended their two-year relationship just days ago. Millie also says his appearance ‘goes against everything the 20-year-old boxer claims to stand for’. She said: “Going on this show is supposedly against everything he claimed to stand for.” Millie added: “He wouldn’t even like me watching the programme and would say the girls were disgusting because of their lip fillers and Botox. He hates all that. “When we were together, he wouldn’t want me wearing make-up, short skirts or dresses or anything low-cut that showed any kind of cleavage. He’s very strict about that sort of thing.” Millie, who is 22 and studying for her masters, continued: “But clearly he’s a liar. All he is after is money and fame – he’s a fake and a phoney.” She alleges Tommy ended things with her by saying his parents didn’t want them to date. The masters student said: “I was gutted, I really loved him – especially since it was me and my family who supported him and helped him get where he is. “I paid for everything for Tommy because he didn’t have a job. He left school in the eighth grade and had no qualifications.” Millie claims Tommy once suggested appearing on the show and splitting the £200,000 with her he’d allegedly been offered. “He swore he wasn’t interested, then a few days later was suggesting he did it and gave me half the money,” she said. She called the break up a “weight off her shoulders” and says she won’t be watching the show.