The pressure is on Pep Guardiola and Manchester City like never before as one of the most incredible Premier League title races in history reaches a conclusion, according to Dailystar.co.uk reports. City head to Brighton leading Liverpool by just one point – and know a win will see them defend their crown. But a slip-up could allow the Reds, who host Wolves at Anfield, the chance to be crowned champions themselves – for the first time in almost three decades. It promises to be an afternoon of remarkable tension and drama, in keeping with the rest of what has been an astonishing season. But Guardiola is refusing to get nervous and admits he is just glad to have the chance to win, because he thought it had gone. Back in January the Reds had opened up a seven-point lead at the top and headed to the Etihad looking to make it 10. But City won 2-1 to close the gap and have gone on a remarkable run of 13 straight league wins to leave the trophy within their grasp. But there was a time when Guardiola worried it wasn’t going to happen and he said: “First of all it’s a dream to be here. I didn’t expect it when we were seven points behind against this Liverpool team, to be in the position we are now. “So that’s why it’s a dream come true. We’ve shown many things, but now is not the moment to say how well we’ve done. “We have the chance to be champions if we win our game – and that’s what we have to do.” City face Watford in the FA Cup final next weekend and have the chance to land a domestic treble, having won the League Cup in February. It would be a historic achievement – and Guardiola reckons the next two games all boil down to mental strength. He said: “If we make it back to back (titles) it would be nice, but nothing is going to change too much. “The fact we have done incredibly well all season in all competitions and now have two games – two finals – for two titles. “We have to be strong mentally, knowing it’s going to be tough. “It will be difficult, and it’s about how we react even if we have bad moments and we try to make a good game. “We have to focus on the game – how we want to play – and not worry too much (about the rest). “If the game is running into problems, be calm and think about what you have to do. You may have to go crazy in the last five, 10, 15 minutes. “But before that we have a plan and have to follow the plan to win the game – it’s what we have done all season.” Guardiola insists his players are relaxed and focused and he added: “When we won the title with five or so games to go, it was easier. “But it’s so nice, a privilege. We are in this position because we won a lot of games in the last part of the season. “Thirteen in a row, now we have to win one more. I saw the team relaxed, training good and smiling, they are completely focused.”