LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari has been advised to extend his anti-corruption crusade into the Sports Ministry, especially the sporting federations. Should the president do so, he will uncover mind-boggling dirty deals because 25% of corruption in the Nigeria occurs in sports. Making the call on Thursday is former member of the board of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Jide Josiah, who requested the president to start the probe right from the time Dr. Amos Adamu held sway as Director General of the Sports Ministry. Speaking against the backdrop of the $135,000 fraud rocking the AFN, he said that so many secretaries of the various sporting federations were “pathological thieves and pen robbers”. “This is just a tip of the iceberg when you consider the corruption going on in sports. It’s not an overstatement saying that 25 per cent of corruption in the country takes place in sports. Truth is, the Sports Ministry is a cesspool of corruption. “The president must start his probe from the time of Amos Adamu at the Sports Ministry. He will uncover the kind of nonsense he has not seen before. He should also probe all the sporting federations. The secretaries are pathological thieves, pen robbers. They are adept at shortchanging athletes and coaches of their allowances. “Chief Segun Erinle, the late basketball federation first vice president, was killed because of fraud he uncovered in the basketball federation. He wanted to go and report the matter to the president of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), Jacob Buba Gyang in Abuja. They trailed him from Lagos and killed him in Ekiti just to cover their fraudulent acts. “Till today, his death was never probed. This is one of the reasons God is punishing us in this country. When you kill an innocent man and those who perpetrate it are walking free in the country as if nothing happens. According to him, “When you ask a cat to guard a roasted meat, what do you get? This is the situation in our sports and I am not surprised that we are witnessing this despicable acts again. When you don’t allow people with honour and integrity to have access into sporting administration, this is what you get.” Meanwhile, Solomon Dalung, the Sports Minister, has summoned an emergency meeting of the board of AFN for Tuesday in Abuja. The meeting will start at 4.00pm. Dalung, we leanrt claimed that he was yet to be briefed of the fraud allegations by the AFN.