Senator Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing Lagos East Senatorial district in the National Assembly has stated that in order to become one of the world’s leading economies, Nigeria must be ready to adjust and reposition its educational institutions. He made this remark on the floor of the Senate while leading the debates on the City University of Technology (Est) Bill and the Federal Polytechnic Iwerekun, Ibeju-Lekki Establishment bill on Thursday 23rd of May 2019. The City University Establishment bill seeks to convert the Yaba College of Technology, Yaba, Lagos to a University while the Federal Polytechnic Iwereun Ibeju-Lekki bill seeks to establish a Polytechnic in Ibeju-Lekki area of Lagos State. Ashafa who sponsored both bills in the senate in his remarks concerning the City University of Technology said “I am personally excited by the prospect of transforming this polytechnic to a University of Technology because it will motivate both students and academic staff just as it will upgrade its facilities and enhance its capability to achieve its objectives. If Nigeria as planned should aim to become one of the world’s leading economies as currently being pursued by government, we must be ready to adjust and position our educational institutions so that its products are geared for the technological challenges inherent in such projections. Our educational authorities are moving to revamp our institutions for these objectives” He further said “the attainment of university status would definitely enhance the operations of the Yaba Polytechnic and clarify its mission an a vision. It is definitely old enough; its facilities are superior to those found in many other Nigerian Universities and with the arguable exception of very few Universities, no tertiary institution can boast of a richer tradition of learning” Concerning the Federal Polytechnic Iwerekun Ibeju-Lekki Establishment Bill, Ashafa stated that ” the essence of the bill is to provide a highly specialized institution that will disseminate knowledge related to the development of technology, applied science management and other fields of study. Giving reasons why the establishment of the Polytechnic in Ibeju-Lekki area of Lagos East, he said “the present construction of the Dangote Refinery and also the Lekki deep sea port in the Lekki area of Lagos makes Ibeju-Lekki even suitably positioned for the establishment of this Polytechnic as the axis will soon start booming with various economic activities. The Polytechnic coupled with the deep sea port and the refinery will in no small measure create employment for our teeming youths and all together create a boost in the economy.” The ranking lawmaker said he believes that a properly structured Federal Polytechnic Iwerekun, Ibeju-Lekki will provide the desired platform for tapping the brains of Nigeria Youths at their early stage, in their environment so that they become committed economic nation builders and entrepreneurs.