Operatives of the Lagos Police Rapid Response Squad (RRS) have arrested two suspected hard drugs peddlers in Alausa area of the state. The suspects, Olukoya Ayodele, 26, and Victor Godwin, 30, were arrested following an intelligence gathering by officers of the Decoy team of the RRS, who were mandated to uncover illicit drugs peddling in the area. In their confessional statements they told the police that they buy and hawk different types of hard drugs such as, Indian Hemp, Skunk, Tramadol, Refnol, Diazal and other assorted hard drugs to factory workers in the area. Ayodele, who claimed to be a graduate of Information Management and a notorious member of the Black Axe Confraternity (Aye) was arrested with assorted charms which he claimed was meant for his protection from  harm of other rival cult members back then in his days as a student. The suspect narrated that “I armed myself with all these assorted charms to prevent me from getting killed by other rival cult groups. I learnt the art of charm making from my father who is an herbalist. It makes it easy for me to prepare various charms for myself and friends.” “I came to Lagos after I graduated in 2015 in search of greener pastures but factory work I got was too stressful for me. I later began to work as a motor boy and added drug peddling to it to augment the low income from the motor boy hustle.” “I make over N3.6m annually from the sale of hard drugs and have been in the business for three years now. The charms also helped me to transact my business and prevented me from getting caught by security operatives. In his own account, Victor, a boutique owner in the area, who was also caught with hard drugs, claimed he engages in such to augment his income. Victor revealed being in the business for some time now and that  he has been using the proceeds from the illicit business to pay his rents and also planning  for his marriage coming up soon, which he believed his boutique income could not take care of. “I sell hard drugs to factory workers in the area. They use it to work because their work is energy consuming and requires agility. I sell one capsule of tramadol for N300 while Indian hemp and skunk goes for N100 respectively. Drug business is a lucrative one because it helps make ‘sharp sharp’ money, but I regret my involvement in the illegal business,” Victor said. When briefed on the outcome of the raid, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Muazu Subaru, advised youths to be creative and energetic, and not to engage themselves in illegal ventures. He also urged them to stay away from the sale and use of hard drugs The suspects have been transferred to the narcotic section of the Command for further investigations.