ILORIN – Razaq Atunwa, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections in Kwara State, has asked the election tribunal to order the conduct of fresh elections. Counsel to the candidate, Kingsley Odeh, made known this position in an interview with newsmen on Wednesday during the pre-trial conference the tribunal held with parties in the petitions against victory of Abdulrahman Abfulrazaq of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the governorship election. Odeh who doubles as the PDP counsel said that the winner of the election, Abdulrazaq, was not qualified to contest the poll. He said, “Our ground was that the second respondent at the time of elections was not qualified. He gave false certificate to INEC. Second, that he gave false information in aid of his educational qualification. In other words, when such prayers are made, the tribunal will have to nullify the election and order for fresh election. That’s what we are seeking before the tribunal. We seek for fresh election because the proper thing is that if the second respondent is disqualified, it is to order for fresh elections and not for the petitioner to be sworn in as the rightful winner,” he said. At the pre-hearing session, meant to adopt petitioners’ answers to pre-hearing information sheet, applications before the tribunal were filed and adopted. The lead judge in the tribunal, Justice Bassey Effiong, who warned counsel against time-wasting, said that the tribunal would not extend the 14-day period for the pre-hearing conference Justice Effiong suggested that the petitions be consolidated by the counsel. The Action Alliance (AA) is also challenging the victory of the APC. However, counsel to the INEC, Rowland Otaru, said that the petition cannot be consolidated with that of Action Alliance, saying that each petition should be treated in its own merit. “There are different issues raised in the two petitions and there are different counsel,” he said. Otaru, expressed hope that the tribunal proceedings would not take longer time than necessary, saying that issues raised are documentary and witnesses are few. The counsel while noting that the petitioner did not file reply to INEC pleadings declared that this was a confirmation that INEC pleadings were solid. The tribunal sitting continues today as it would continue to sit consecutively for 14 working days for the pre-trial conference.