Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Corruption, economic environment and poor regulation are responsible for the combined 194 per cent collapse of family businesses in Nigeria, a report of PwC’s 2018 survey has revealed. The survey, which was launched in Lagos yesterday, attributed 70 per cent collapse of family business growth to economic environment, 67 per cent to corruption and 57 per cent to regulation in the country. The report said that its survey indicated that the three above, topped the three main challenges confronting family business growth in the country. Corruption PwC estimated could cost up to 37 per cent of Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 2030 if unchecked, was associated with lower investment, higher prices as well as barriers of entry for businesses. The report, however, said that the Nigerian family businesses should seek to maximise the competitive advantage that comes from their strong values-led culture. Growth among Nigerian family businesses over the last 12 months, the survey said was lower than the global average with only 53 per cent reporting growth in the last 12 months against 69 per cent globally. However, 87 per cent expect to grow over the next two years with 40 per cent, saying growth will be quick and aggressive against 16 per cent globally. The Family Business Survey is a global market survey among key decision makers in family businesses within a number of PwC’s key territories. The goal of the survey is to get an understanding of what family businesses are thinking on the key issues of the day. This year’s report with the theme: ‘Building a lasting competitive advantage through your values and purpose in a digital age,’ saw family business leaders globally reporting robust health, with levels of growth at their highest level since 2007. Regionally businesses in the Middle East and Africa were the most optimistic, with 28 per cent expecting aggressive growth. They are followed by those in Asia Pacific (24 per cent), Eastern Europe (17 per cent), North America (16 per cent), Central/South America (12 per cent) and Western Europe (11 per cent). Most strikingly, the 2018 edition of the survey demonstrates a link between putting values at the heart of strategic planning and strong growth prospects. While 67 per cent of Nigerian family businesses have a clear sense of agreed values and purpose as a company, less than half (43 per cent) of respondents have those values articulated in written form. Uyi Akpata, Country Senior Partner, PwC Nigeria said: “The message is clear: adopting an active stance towards company values generates practices that pay off in real terms. A commitment to a clearly defined set of values can act as an ‘inner compass’ and provide a competitive edge for a family business as it navigates the challenges of technological and competitive disruption. “What this survey clearly indicates, however, is that family business values are not simply the same as family values. Business values should be clearly defined and articulated, but also strongly embedded in the business culture and the day-to-day decision-making regularly reviewed.” The PwC Family Business Survey also contains insights into how the pace of technology change and generational differences are informing family businesses’ approach to legacy and succession planning. Nigerian family businesses have a slightly lower level of perceived concern about the threat from digital disruption (23 per cent) or cyber security vulnerability (33 per cent), compared with global average of 30 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively. 77 per cent of respondents say they plan to pass management to the next generation, but only 10 per cent have a robust, documented and communicated succession plan in place. Women average 30 per cent of board members in Nigerian family businesses. Esiri Agbeyi, Partner and Head Private Wealth Services, PwC Nigeria said: “A key take away from our findings is that there is an opportunity for family business owners that are committed to and adhere to a deep sense of social responsibility and sustainability to invest their resources in a manner that is consistent with their values. “Also, the next generation is key to a family business’ lasting legacy and not involving them in plans to pass on the business risks disengagement. It’s crucial to have a written and documented plan for the continuity of the business to improve transparency and trust. The next generation needs time to build a collective sense of purpose and be supported in developing their own framework for success. The report was presented at a well-attended event, which held at the Metropolitan Club, Lagos and had in attendance many top business leaders including Chief JK Randle, Dr ABC Orjiako, Chairman, Seplat, Mrs Udo Okonjo CEO Fine and Country, Mr Oscar Onyema, DG of the Nigeria stock Exchange among others.