LAGOS – Former Super Eagles star, Edema Fuludu, has joined in mourning the death of Lobi Stars of Makurdi coach, Solomon Ogbeide, but said that he never showed any sign of illness before his death on Monday. Although reports indicate that Ogbeide might have died as a result of complications from stress, fatigue and trauma, Fuludu said he spoke with the late coach a day earlier, and insists the coach did not sound like someone in distress, as he was in high spirit. “I was surprised to hear about his death because he was a man I was very close to. We even spoke on Sunday and he gave no signs that he was sick. He was a nice man to the core. “He was my coach and a very good person to be with. His death is a sad loss to Nigerian football,” said Fuludu. Fuludu, who worked with Ogbeide during his days at Warri Wolves of Delta State, further described the coach as a jovial man, a good person and a kind heart individual. He noted that it was surprising to hear that the coach passed on just few months after guiding Lobi Stars to the group stage of this year’s CAF Champions League; having won a truncated season few months earlier in the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL). Meanwhile, managements of Bendel Insurance FC of Benin, Lobi Stars of Makurdi and Rangers’ Kelvin Itoya have joined in paying glowing tributes to the tactician. Itoya recalled with nostalgia how the deceased discovered and gave him confidence in the game when he signed him for Warri Wolves. The Nigeria Football Federation is also not left out. “We are heartbroken about the death of Coach Solomon Ogbeide. Words are inadequate to describe the sense of loss. There was no doubt that he was among the very best in the country and even on the African continent, having led Lobi Stars to the group stage of this year’s CAF Champions League competition,” NFF stated in a statement. “Our hearts go out to Lobi Stars Football Club and its management and staff, the Nigeria Football Coaches Association and the immediate family of Coach Ogbeide,” NFF General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, said on Tuesday.