LAGOS – Chief Adegboye Onigbinde has reminded Nigerian football coaches of the need to consider their health condition as a matter of utmost importance affirmed. Onigbinde, former Super Eagles of Nigeria coach, while commenting on the death of Coach Solomon Ogbeide of Lobi Stars of Makurdi said, “It was most unfortunate that the Edo-born football technocrat passed away when his service was most needed by his employers.” According to him, “Ogbeide’s death calls for a sober reflection on how much Nigerian coaches care about their health, because it’s only a man that is healthy that can deliver on his duty. So, the question is how often do the coaches go for medical checkups to ascertain their health condition? This is not a technical issue, but a matter of administrative policy that should be adhered to jealously by everyone because health is wealth.” The former FIFA and CAF Technical Instructor speaking philosophically said, “In Yoruba, there is the saying that “when a man is ageing, he should know when to stop working. He has position Lobi in a very good position in the league, but now he’s gone.” Onigbinde lamented that he would miss Ogbeide who was his secretary when he (Onigbinde) was the President of Nigeria Coaches Association. John Obuh, former Flying Eagles of Nigeria coach corroborating Onigbinde assaying that Nigeria has recently lost brains in the football industry as the need for proper medication cannot be overemphasised. Obuh who believes there is though, no age limit for coaching business admitted, “Our coaches need regular checkups. One cannot keep working without giving thought to his/her health condition. We have lost some of our brilliant coaches recently – Kelechi Emeteole; Shaibu Amodu; Stephen Keshi – it shouldn’t be. I think this should be an eye opener for others.” Obuh maintained, “At the same time I won’t say that there is age limit for coaching job; as long as one still can carry on and still doing well, if the offer comes it should be accepted,” while appreciating Ogbeide as a result-oriented coach who delegates responsibilities among his subordinates.