BENIN – Members of the Edo State House of Assembly are on warpath over the passage of electricity bill by the Assembly that sparked protest in Benin last week. While the Speaker of the Assembly, Kabiru Adjoto, accused some members of the Assembly of sponsoring Edo State Civil Society Organisation (EDOSCO) to protest against him and the Assembly for allegedly refusing to share the Assembly’s money under the guise of electricity bill, Chris Okaeben, chairman, House Committee on Energy, asked the speaker to tell Edo people how much he allegedly collected from the BEDC that warranted the bill he described as anti-Edo people to be passed with such speed. Okaeben said BEDC has put Edo people in darkness for years now only for it to seek a bill that would sanction the people and the speaker caused the bill to be passed without debate only to turn round to accuse him and some other members of sponsoring a protest against the House. According to Okaeben, it was unfortunate for the speaker to have linked him with the protest organised by EDOSCO, which he said, had also accused him of conniving with BEDC to pass the bill. Okaeben, who questioned the speedy passage, said he was not part of the members that passed the bill. He said he stayed away from the Assembly because as the chairman Committee on Energy, the bill was slated for hearing without his knowledge. Adjoto, while reacting to the protest by the EDOSCO led by Comrade Omobude Agho, over the speedy passage of the bill criminalising electricity theft among others in the state, insisted that the protest was not about the bill but his refusal to share the Assembly money to members as being championed by Okaeben. The CSO had during the protest accused the speaker and the House of collecting bribe from the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) and passed the bill which they described as anti-people. According to Adoto, the protest was not about the bill passed because during the protest non-of the protesters mentioned the bill, adding they vandalised Assembly property. “Some members of the Assembly led by Hon Chris Okaeben come to me that I should share money to members and that they don’t want to leave the House poorer. I told them that Assembly’s money is not meant to be shared. So they had to sponsor the protest to show that the House is bad and not working in the interest of the people