Kano – Uneasy calm pervades the ancient city of Kano following resolve by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje to install 4 new emirs despite a court order ordering status quo. Ganduje’s itinerary published by his Chief Protocol Officer shows that barring any last-minute change, formal installation of the new four First Class Emirs comes up at Sani Abacha Stadium by 2:00 pm today. Already, there is a heavy presence of armed security personnel at the major flashpoints in the city. On Friday, the state High Court sitting at Ungogo under Justice Samiu granted an expert motion directing all parties involved to revert to status quo ante until the determination of the substantive application before it. The order, directing the defendants/respondents to halt the publication and release of the law, accented on May 8, 2019, namely: Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition), (Amendment), Law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”An order of interim injunction, retraining the Defendants/Respondents from taking steps or giving effect to the Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition) (Amendment) law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”It also restrained the 4th Defendant/Respondent from appointing or recognizing any purported Emir under Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition) (Amendment) law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”It further restrained the 4th Defendant from giving the staff of office or appointing anyone whatsoever as Emir of Gaya Emirate, Bichi Emirate, Rano Emirate and Karaye Emirate, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”Any such further or other orders, as this Honourable Court may deem just to make in the circumstances. The matter has been adjourned to May 15, 2019, for hearing on the motion on notice. But INDEPENDENT learnt that the decision to disobey the Court order was hinged on an argument that “no court can stop the implementation of an act of parliament.” 