Olorogun Taleb Tebite is the Commissioner representing Ughelli South, Udu, Uvwie and Urhobos in Warri South Local Government Area, two time Delta State House of Assembly member and Coordinator of the PDP in Ughelli South Local Government Area in the just concluded general elections. In this interview with SUNDAY APAH, he spoke on the achievements and re-election of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Excerpts: The general elections have come and gone, what is your assessment on the entire exercise? I want to say what we predicted came to pass because before the elections, I was very optimistic and positive that PDP was going to win the election in Delta going by what they have done on ground both at the state and today you can see for yourself that PDP had a landslide victory. I want to point out that even the opposition we seem to have today in Delta state that illegally won few seats in both the state and at the national assembly were aggrieved PDP members that left the party for one reason or the order and since they are our people before now we are still going to do our best to ensure that we bring them back to the fold. We must give thanks to INEC for a good job because the amount of violence that was anticipated was averted and INEC conducted nothing but the freest and the most credible governorship election in Delta state. The APC factional governorship candidate, Chief Great Ogboru has gone to court and there is this strong belief that PDP might lose Delta going by the rumour that the governorship election was marred with rigging? I want you to understand that the court is for everybody and it is expected that when there are contest and one of the parties is not satisfied the best way to expressed one’s anger is to go to court instead of resorting to violence. Several courts have declared Chief Ogboru’s APC candidacy as illegal. The Federal High Court, Asaba Division, sacked the Jones Erue-led executive of the party in Delta State. The court also voided the participation of Great Ogboru as the All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate in the 2019 governorship election in Delta. The election has since been held with Ogboru coming second to the incumbent Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The court’s decision followed the case filed by the Cyril Ogodo-led faction of the APC, urging the court to recognize it as the authentic APC executive. The Ogodo-led faction had also urged the court to sack the Erue-led executive which produced Ogboru as the party’s governorship candidate. The election was never rigged anywhere in Delta state. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa won landslide in 23 Local Government Areas out of the Local Government areas in the state. It was said that the result that came from the riverine Local Government Areas in Delta South Senatorial District were alleged to have been rigged and that gave victory to your governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, what is your comment on this? That is not correct, PDP won in nine local government areas in Delta North, won six in Delta Central and also won eight in Delta South and made 2/3rd of the twenty-five percent of the total vote cast in all the local government areas in the state and you will agree with me and even in central where APC claimed to have had their stronghold. We got the required number of votes in all the local government areas and won six LGA out of the eight, so where issue of rigging does come from and why did we win in Delta central when our stronghold is claimed to have been the riverine area. You are an Urhobo from Delta central, how would you describe the support of Urhobo nation in support of their son, Chief Great Ogboru in the concluded governorship election? Well, let me be frank, a man told me in my town that Chief Great Ogboru is our son and therefore I should vote for him and I told him that it is sentiment and that there is deference between sentiment and politics. We are playing politics and if an Urhobo man is contesting an election and I don’t see him as the best I will not support him on the basis of sentiment. Delta state has three senatorial districts and you are aware of the decision of power rotation and zoning, not after one person from Urhobo nation had ruled for eight years, we are still expecting an Urhobo man again as the next governor that means we are not considerate for our next neighbor. While we are planning, we should put into cognizance that no tribe in Delta can make it to government house without the support of other tribes not even the Urhobos. Can you list some achievements of DESOPADEC? The SMART Governor, His Excellency, Senator Dr. Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa restructured the commission through the repeal of the previous law (now amended, 2015), and this has brought in a new administrative outlook with well-defined scope of engagement and terms of reference. The Governor demonstrated his passion and commitment to develop the oil and gas producing communities of the state that was why he restructured the Commission by giving the commission the much needed impetus and leeway to do all that was incidentally to the attainment of its objectives. About four years after, the restructuring has yielded positive results. The present Board ably led by Hon Godwin Ebosa as the chairman and Olorogun Williams Makinde as the managing Director/CEO has brought extant public service guidelines and structures to consolidate on the foundation laid by the pioneer board, is building on existing structure, improving and advancing the frontiers of development, all for the benefit of our people. This commitment is what we have consigned ourselves to achieve. Today we have a score card and a testimonial of a board that hit the ground running, the story so far is harvest of projects, Tangible deliverables, robust partnerships, beneficial interventions in key sectors, human capital development, empowerment, value for salaries, staff welfare and a host of feats that can only be recorded by a board whose mandate, vision and mission are popular and a point of reference. As we place on record our existence as a board for about four years, we are not unmindful of many more goals ahead to attain and guarantee a better life for majority of our people. The present board of DESOPADEC remains resolved and has converted the DESOPADEC dream into reality. It has becomes obvious that together we have reached our Eldorado. We have done well. This is the recap of the journey so far. The achievements of the Okowa led administration in all sectors through the current Board of DESOPADEC in the oil producing areas of the state in concrete terms, opens a vista of opportunities and charts a new paradigm if need be. Let us quickly run down memory lane and understand our mission for a new and better DESOPADEC mandate area. In the area of education, the current board under the Okowa led administration has intervened most pragmatically in the education sub-sector with tangible boost and massive deliverables in almost all the host oil and gas communities of the state. It has renovated, construct classrooms blocks for over 18 schools in its mandate area. In housing, it has constructed over 52 units of two bedrooms semi-detached 2 bedrooms, sand filling and reclamation and renovation of a Magistrate Court in its mandate area. It has also constructed several roads, concrete jetties and provided boats for riverine communities. In the area of community development, it constructed palaces, town halls, civic centers, skill acquisition centres, perimeter fencing, kitchen and dining hall for remand homes, provision of transformers, provision of solar powered water schemes, Police Observatory Tower at Nigeria Police Force headquarters, Asaba and several others.