Operatives of the Lagos State Police command yesterday exhumed four corpses who were killed and dumped in a septic tank in Ikorodu area of Lagos state. Already three suspects have been arrested in connection with the killings. Making this known yesterday was Bala Elkana, DSP, who is the Police Public Relations Officer, Lagos State Command. Elkana explained that the crime came to the fore when on March 14, 2019 the Command received a complaint from Ikorodu area that some unidentified persons approached one Alhaji Yakubu Musa and Alhaji Hassan Umaru, both Bureau de Change operators at Benson area of Ikorodu. The men were said to have informed the BDC operators that they have a relation who returned from overseas and needed to sell 10,000 US Dollars to them. According to Elkana the men initially requested that payment will be made in a Bank at Ikorodu but on getting to the Bank, the suspects moved the operators to an unknown destination and started demanding for ransom from their friends and relatives. Elkana said : “Despite paying the sum of One Million, Six Hundred Thousand Naira as ransom, the abductors refused to release the victims and nothing more was heard from them. “The victims phones remained switched off. The Commissioner of Police Lagos State CP Zubairu Muazu detailed the Commander, Special Anti- Robbery Squad (SARS) to carry out an in-depth investigation into the matter with a view of rescuing the victims and apprehending the suspects. “Operatives from SARS Ipakodo base led by Superintendent of Police, Godfrey Soriwei arrested three suspects, namely: Oluwatosin Olanrewaju, 40,Mayowa Olawuni, a.k.a General and Babatunde Idris a.k.a Aloma. “The suspects have confessed to the commission of the crime and led operatives to their den at Ikorodu where they dumped the corpse in a septic tank. “Two locally made single barrel guns with five live cartridges, one locally made gun with three ammunition, one locally made revolver pistol with three live ammunition, one cutlass, one axe and some charms were recovered from them. “Investigation revealed that the suspects had at various times used the abandoned company as their den, where all their targets are killed and dumped in the sceptic tank. “As part of the investigation, four decomposed bodies were today, 9/5/2019 recovered from the septic tank for autopsy. The suspects confessed to have killed the other two rival cult members and dumped them in the septic tank before killing the two Bureau de change operators.” Elkana explained. The PPRO also said the suspects are currently assisting the police in the arrest of the other fleeing members of the gang. He said investigation is ongoing and suspects will be charged to Court as soon as investigation is completed.