LAGOS – Alleged kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwumadike, otherwise known as Evans, now has a new legal representative, as Mr R.B.C Eke appeared for him in court. It would be recalled that the trial of the alleged kidnapper has suffered several setbacks due to lack of legal representative in court. Saturday INDEPENDENT reports that Mr. R.B.C is the third lawyer that would be defending Evans in his ongoing trial before the Igbosere High Court in Lagos. At the commencement of his trial, he had engaged Ogungbeje Olukoya and later Mr Chino Obiagwu (SAN), before engaging Eke. The presiding judge, Justice Adedayo Akintoye of a Lagos High Court, Igbosere, at the last adjournment, ordered Evans to get a legal representative before the next court sitting. Akintoye gave the order due to the absence of Evans’ counsel, Mr Chino Obiagwu (SAN), for the third time in a row which again stalled the ongoing trial of the alleged kidnap kingpin. The court, however, advised Evans to ensure that he got a legal representative before the next adjourned date. Justice Akintoye said, “If your lawyers don’t want to appear, we cannot force them. You have three options, you can get another lawyer to represent you or the court can appoint one for you or you can defend yourself. This is last day I will give you to get a lawyer.” Akintoye, however, adjourned the case until May 17 for continuation of trial. Lagos State government had dragged Evans to court over charges, bordering on conspiracy to kidnap, kidnapping and attempted murder. In the first charge, Evans is standing trial alongside Joseph Emeka, Ugochukwu Nwachukwu and Victor Aduba. In the second charge, he is standing trial alongside Joseph Emeka, Linus Okpara and Victor Aduba. At the resumed hearing of the matter yesterday, Evans’ new counsel, Mr Eke, however informed the court that he had just taken over the case and would need time to study the case file. He prayed the court to adjourn the case to enable him study the case file and be abreast of the court proceedings. Meanwhile on the second charge, the third defendant Linus Okpara, also got a new lawyer, Mr C. J. Jiakponna, who informed the court that he has a bail application. The prosecuting counsel, Mr Y. G. Oshoala, however told the court that he has not been served with the bail application of the third defendant in the second charge. Consistently Justice Akintoye, adjourned the case till June 27, for the continuation of trial within trial of Evans, on the first charge, and May 23, for the hearing of the third defendant’s (Okpara), bail application, on the second charge. Evans had on January 16, during a trial within trial, denied the confessional statement he made to the police after his arrest in 2017, saying it was made under duress. He told the court that he signed the statement under duress to save him from being tortured to death. Evans gave details of how members of Inspector General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team allegedly tortured and killed several others, who were paraded alongside him in his presence. He was however cross-examined by the Lagos State Counsel to prove that his statement was not taken under duress.