Hon. Charles Anike is the National President of Eastern Union (EU), a political pressure group for the people of Old Eastern Region. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on crucial national issues as Nigeria gets ready for the celebration of 20 years democracy and inauguration of the new administration on May 29, 2019. Excerpt: May 29 will be Nigeria’s 20 years of uninterrupted democracy. How would you say the country fared so far? The 20 years of uninterrupted democracy in Nigeria is a worthwhile experience. From my own standpoint, the country has fared well, but not without challenges which of course is not peculiar to Nigeria, but most developing world. The period witnessed a lot of challenges resulting from the carryover of political crisis that predated the emergence of the Nigeria nation itself. Tribalism, nepotism ad religious sentiments and many more are still very much with us. The successive military regimes bequeathed to us constitutions that did not take into account the country’s heterogeneous nature. The fake or misguided and federal system of government adopted has been the major source of tension and constant agitations since the Second Republic. The county could not have fared better under such system. However, we can safely and categorically say that these 20 years of uninterrupted democracy are better than any military government, all of them put together. The country has recorded remarkable achievements in many areas in terms of developments when compared to the various military regimes that came to power for almost two decades. What lessons would you say Nigerian leaders and politicians have learnt during the 20 years of democracy? Well, looking at the way and manner our leaders, especially the political leaders, still conduct themselves, it is obvious that they have learnt nothing. One can safely say that previous military dictatorship only left some scars on our polity, but without lessons. A flash back into our history shows that the current politicians are not different. They are rather getting worse and more sophisticated in their unethical activities during and after elections. Today’s politicians have actually introduced digital rigging and maneuovering into our electoral system. In fact, our politicians and leaders have their ears, but they don’t hear and have eyes, but cannot see. The only thing they know very well is how to steal from our commonwealth. The current insecurity is the result of short sightedness of our political leaders. May be, the only area we have witnessed some sort of improvement is legislative advocacy. Otherwise, there no other area. With the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS) recently putting the nation’s debt at N4.23trillion, do you see it recovering from it easily? My brother, that figure itself may not be accurate. We are in an era where impunity has taken hold of our national life. With the way and manner the government disburses money for unworthy ventures, there is no doubt that we might be heading towards another round of recession.  The debt profile of the country appears to be the worse version of the APC government after their human rights abuses. I don’t think the country can recover from the weight of the debt under this current administration. The lack of vision and courage to tackle the rot in the system, coupled with the square pegs in round holes and the ways of the APC government, it will be a miracle if the nation won’t be plunged into a more financial crisis soonest. And, if we go by the current trends, that will mean another four years of economic kwashiorkor that may defy treatment. Do you think state governors who had not been paying salaries could afford to pay the new national minimum wage of N30, 000? The new minimum wage brouhaha and the attendance signature of the president was nothing, but a scam. Otherwise, why did it take the government over three years before any meaningful headway was achieved? As if to add salt upon injury, it waited till the wee hours before the presidential election before he could forward the bill to the National Assembly, obviously to get the favourable attention of the civil servants. The government has never been sincere in all its dealings with the Nigeria people. I think it is not all the state governors that would be able to pay the new minimum wage, even when money is available, especially these of them on their second term. They will not be interested or committed to the welfare of their state workers. In their usual attitude, their second term is to ‘take care of themselves and the boys’. Bearing this in mind, we may be witnessing a lot of protests and strikes across the country in the next political dispensation. Unfortunately, the current Federal Government has succeeded in weakening the organised labour and labour unions. President Muhammadu Buhari, who has not been backing restructuring, recently canvassed for True Federalism. Why do you think he changed his mind on the issue now that he is going for second term? A point of correction, please. President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term is still hanging in the air. Not until the election tribunal of the Supreme Court affirms the true winner of the 2019 presidential election, that Buhari would be referred to as ‘going into second term in office’. To answer your question, I will simply say the end to the lies of this administration is not in sight. Honestly, I doubt if Mr. President really understands the principle of true federalism or restructuring. Since this is very obvious about the president and his approach to issues of national importance, which are often dismally attended to, the statement was just figurative and carries no weight. We know there is no sincerity or political will by the President and his party to engage in anything near restructuring of the country. As far as President Buhari is concerned, he says what is convenient to him at any time. But, unknown to him, his lack of capacity and his weaknesses is already a public knowledge. A cross section of Nigerians has been advocating for community policing as a solution to banditry, kidnapping and killings across the country. What is your take on this? Community policing, just like every other policy of government, has its merit and demerits. Well, on a personal basis, I believe community policing will go a long way to solve many of the security problems since our society is so diverse in culture, language and tradition, as well as religious affiliations. If well organised and structured, it will help to curb banditry and other such crimes because it is a situation which involves people who know the communities and their people that will be deployed for surveillance of their areas. They will enjoy the advantage of being able to understand and speak the language and mix freely with members of the community. Personally, I have the experience of how it operates as a former Director of National Community Policing Campaign (NCPC), a nongovernmental organisation. At that time, we were able to uncover various crimes perpetrated by people within certain communities because of free information gathering and rapport with the members. If well harnessed, it is a welcome development. A lot is being said about the possibility of the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, may vie for presidency come 2013. Would you say he would receive support from every section of the country? Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has every right to aspire to any position in Nigeria as a citizen. He has also been able to network between the various political groups in Nigeria, hence he is vast politially. However, his credibility will be decided by his political party. As for whether he will be supported or not by the people across the country will depend largely on his political chess game, and like I mentioned earlier, he has over the years networked with politicians across the country. Personally, I think that the two-term governor of Lagos State and the political godfather of many across the country has long nursed the ambition of becoming the president. But, the question is: Does he still have the strength and good health for the enormous task ahead? Will his dream not amount to recycling the old horses? Some people see Tinubu is a political wild card, a dribbler of political associates and an itinerant citizen of no particular state of origin. So, time will tell!