On Saturday, Bayern Munich secured their first domestic double since Pep Guardiola was manager with their 3-0 win over RB Leipzig in the DFB-Pokal final. The win came just seven days after they clinched their seventh consecutive Bundesliga title by virtue of an emphatic 5-1 win over Eintracht Frankfurt, Niko Kovac’s former side, on the final match-day of the Bundesliga season. Due to the fact that Bayern were both Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal winners, they will face Borussia Dortmund in next season’s DFL-Supercup, which is the first competitive fixture on the calendar for 2019/2020 for both sides. Since Dortmund finished second in the league behind Bayern, they will host the Supercup at Signal Iduna Park on either August 3rd of 4th. As it’s always the case for the Supercup, the home venue is always assigned to the team that won the DFB-Pokal, or the team that finished second in the league if the team that won the league also won the DFB-Pokal, just like Bayern have done this season. BERLIN, GERMANY – MAY 25: Robert Lewandowski of Bayern Munich celebrates victory with the trophy after the DFB Cup final between RB Leipzig and Bayern Muenchen at Olympiastadion on May 25, 2019 in Berlin, Germany.
Bayern celebrating the 2019 DFB-Pokal title Photo by Matthias Hangst/Bongarts/Getty Images
Bayern won this season’s Supercup in Kovac’s first competitive match in charge of the club with a 5-0 thumping of Eintracht Frankfurt at the Commerzbank-Arena. In the previous two seasons before that, Bayern beat Dortmund at Signal Iduna Park; in 2016, they won 2-0, and in 2017 Bayern won on penalties. Since its creation in the late 1980’s, no team has won more Supercups than Bayern, who have won 7. For a brief period stretching from 1997-2007, the Suercup was replaced by a competition called the DFB-Ligapokal, which was played between six teams, the top four finishers in the Bundesliga, the DFB-Pokal winner, and the winner of the 2. Bundesliga. If a team was doubly qualified by also winning the German Cup, the fifth-placed team in the Bundesliga took the spare place. The matches were played in a knockout format, played over three rounds with two matches in the first two rounds, and a single final in the last round. Bayern have won 6 of those titles, more than any other club. With the upcoming Supercup, it will ensure that there will be at least 3 installments of der Klassiker next season. It might not be a trophy that bares a lot of significance, but it will be a fantastic way for Bayern to open up their 2019/2020 campaign.