Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Obong Victor Attah, former governor of Akwa Ibom state, in this interview with IDONGESIT ASHAMERI, speaks on Nigeria’s democratic journey in the last 20 years, developments in Akwa Ibom state and other issues. Excerpts: President Muhammadu Buhari has been sworn into office for a second term, what are your expectations from him, especially for the Niger Delta region? Those of you that read my reactions to the results of the 2019 general elections would know that I set an agenda for Buhari. The first item on my agenda for Buhari was that he should make sure he absolutely, totally and completely stop all forms of agitations to disintegrate Nigeria. And the only way President Buhari can do this is if a federal system is re-enacted for Nigeria so that every federating unit will have a breathing space, will feel that they control themselves. I’m not just saying to him restructure, which is a common word that everybody uses, I started with the consequence. The consequence is, if you don’t do this, Nigeria is going to break up, I say it every day. Nigeria will certainly break up if you do not allow this unit to exist as they used to in the days of federalism. So I said please, make sure you do this so that Nigeria will not break up. And I am very pleased because if you listened to what President Buhari said during the visit of the APC governors to him, he said Nigeria at this stage of development is ready for true federalism. Those were words from President Buhari’s mouth. So, maybe this campaign is being accepted now. Therefore, those people who said they don’t want to vote for Buhari because he has not agreed to restructure, were wrong. It’s just a matter of you convincing somebody, you present an idea strongly enough. And any reasonable human being, a sensible person who loves this country and wants this country to stay, would agree with you. And Buhari is beginning to agree with everything we have said about having a new birth and a new beginning. But it is not a new concept, we had it before. Cabinet List: APC Members Name Those Buhari Must Not Appoint From Akwa Ibom As a state, How well has Akwa Ibom fared in terms of physical development? I have to regrettably say that we are not where I had expected Akwa Ibom to be at this point in time, and I will be very blunt about that because when we came in, we actually had a manifesto and in it, we spelt out the things we thought Akwa Ibom needed to do to lift it to the next level, let me borrow some inspirations from various people. And we were convinced that if we did those things, we would in fact very quickly get there. That’s why if you look at the projects we started, there was some sort of interrelationships between them. If for instance you want to do something on IT (Information Technology), I think it is funny if you are trying to do IT successfully with a diesel generator, so; we needed power. You want to build an airport? Go and look at the problems they have at Lagos International Airport. So, you need electricity again. So, the need for power in supporting the airport activity, supporting the IT activity particularly the airport MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) that they use in maintaining the aircrafts. And then if people are going to come in here, they will need somewhere decent to stay, and that’s why we had the hotel (the then Ibom Le’ Meridien Hotels and Golf Resort) Then the IT, because that is the signs of the future; you can see what it is doing to everybody now, so we put up the science park. Then you look at Akwa Ibom in the regional and national context, you see that it could be a hub for a lot of things; hence the seaport. So, we had an integrated system of systematic development which unfortunately was badly disrupted immediately after I left office, for whatever reason. The fact that we even had the airport completed was a miracle. The power plant had been commissioned by (former president Olusegun) Obasanjo before I left office in 2007. The Science Park still remains unfinished; the University of Technology which we started has been bastardised, made into a conventional university with several campuses. Most of the things we started were dissipated. And I may tell you this, because it is no longer a secret, that there was a time people in the Aso Villa, at the time I was governor, were wondering whether I’m thinking of seceding. They asked, why is Obong Attah building a Seaport, building an airport, he is building an Independent power plant, is he going to secede? That’s the fear people entertained about the vision I had. And yet, people came and disrupted that. So, I can say perfectly that I feel disappointed that that vision was disrupted. I used the word disrupted because I believe the new regime of Governor Udom Emmanuel, unfettered; I think we are going to see the state flying again. Second Term: Group Tasks Buhari, APC On Women Inclusion In Govt We were looking at the physical development in the first leg of the question. In the second leg, we also want to look at the democratic development, and culture in Akwa Ibom and Nigeria. Good. I’m glad you said national because you can’t talk about democracy in terms of Akwa Ibom only, we have to look at it nationally. My biggest disappointment and it remains the major disappointment for most people who want to see Nigeria progress is that we have not gone back to true federalism. I keep insisting, this true federalism is not something new. It is something we’ve always had; some Nigerians would be too young to have experienced it. But it was interrupted during the civil war in 1966, something we’ve always had; and it is what helped the country to grow. Take for example; under Former Premier of the old Western Region, Obafemi Awolowo, that particular federating unit which was Western Region was able to give us the first television station in West Africa, a stadium, Cocoa House, and so many things. And I know, because I was a trainee architect working with Nickson and Borys in Lagos, we built Western House, it was called Western House because it was built by the Western Region of Nigeria in Lagos. So, everybody was able to build things to develop themselves. But the military could not do that. It’s just not within the set up of the military to have that kind of dispersed leadership; there must be one line of command. So it is understandable that the Head of State was there and he just appointed people, go and govern this area for me, go and govern that area for me and that’s what happened. Why should we, so many years after the military had left the scene and we have got rid of so many of the military vestiges, why should we keep this particular one? And we continue to run a unitary system of distributing money instead of generating money? That is the biggest, and I dare say, the only problem with Nigeria democracy. Recently, former President Obasanjo wrote about this Fulanisation issue. Yes, what is going on in the country is bad, the killings here and there, but believe me, it would not have happened if we had federalism. I would like people to always go back to the root cause of anything. It would not have happened if we have federalism. You would have been able to control what’s happening in your unit, you would have had your police, you control your resources, who would come and dictate in your unit; that would be almost like an invasion. But because we don’t have the federal system, we have this unitary system of governance, anything goes. Atiku Demands N500million From Lauretta Onochie How can Nigerians prepare themselves to receive this new birth if President Buhari obliges to it? The way to prepare ourselves is to accept the fact that it had worked before. Go back and study the 1960 constitution, go back and study 1963 constitution. At first, I will say this, in all honesty, I was not convinced about this idea of returning to a parliamentary system. But more and more I am becoming convinced that that is the answer. I will give few reasons; somebody campaigns across the entire country and wins an election, he feels that he is on top of the whole country; and dictatorial tendencies will make him to begin to act like an emperor. And look at the phenomenal cost of doing that. That’s why quality people are not coming out, and that’s why you cannot nominate anybody and say, I want this person to represent me. It’s only the party that can commandeer the kind of money from their governors that they need for that kind of campaign. Whereas if you allow the parliamentary system today, you and I can sit down to say, look, we come from this area; who among us is good to go to so, so and so assembly, whether it is state assembly or the National Assembly. And nobody can come and rig it because nobody can come from outside and tell us who should represent us. We know better than anybody else outside who should represent us and we will send the person that should represent us to that assembly, and he will do what we want. So, the cost of election will completel y come down because you’re only campaigning within your own area to be so elected. Then there will be no rigging because you cannot come from outside and tell me who should represent me. The party will not impose anybody on us, we will tell the party that this is the person we want and if the party doesn’t accept him, we just put him up as an independent candidate perhaps, or tell him to join another party platform. So, we will have true peoples’ representation, and the possibility of rigging will be almost zero. Then when they get there they can say; this person or that person is good enough to be our premier of prime minister, and we all agree because there’ll be no one par ty. At first, I used to be very upset that a country like Nigeria would have a hundred political parties. Now, I want them to have two hundred. Which means almost everybody is being elected on his individual capability, integrity and ability to represent the community he comes from. So, there’ll be no one party that can have majority, overall majority to form a government. That is when you begin now to form coalition, talk to people and so on. And you would get a national consensus on what ought to be done, and they would put up one person who they think is capable of making that happen for all of us. And the beauty of this is that, if we doesn’t perform, the next minute he goes and we put up somebody else. BREAKING: Senator Akpabio Tops Buhari’s Ministerial List You don’t seem to support this idea of disintegration. But there are some Nigerians who feel that this could be the best solution to the myriads of problems we have in Nigeria. What do you think? Why do they say so? Because they want a certain amount of breathing space, that’s what I’m saying. The minute you have true federalism, did anybody ever thought about disintegrating the country when we had federalism? Nobody did. But when you come and take all my oil, take somebody else’s gold and give to somebody else. However benevolent, the person distributing it cannot be totally fair to everybody. Even if he tries, somebody would always have cause to complain. That’s why I said that Nigeria will disintegrate if you don’t do federalism because there is too much discontent. But that discontent completely dissipated if you allow federalism. There has been a growing system of insecurity in the country, and it is being extended to the Niger Delta. How can this be addressed? Federalism. I tell you something, even this oil theft, if Bayelsa (state) know that it is going to survive on this oil due and it has its own police and they need to enforce rules against theft, do you think it would allow anybody to steal that oil? So all these insecurity and killings and so on would die off. Then a Fulani person would come in here and apply properly for land to graze his cattle. Where is the oldest cattle ranch in Nigeria? Obudu! Obudu is the oldest and it is in Cross River State. So, there were no issues because you had a federal system that allowed that type of thing to happen. Federalism is what will even bring back the sense of being one country. You talked about the parliamentary system of government. During you tenure as governor, you introduced it at the local government level. How appreciative and how functional was that system then, and do you think that Akwa Ibom people would still appreciate it if reintroduced? One of the problems I had with my party then was that they accused me of being too independent, I’m doing anti-party, party says we must do presidential system, I went and did parliamentary system. I challenged the party; you told me to conduct an election, to elect people you called councilors for whom their law is made by the state house of assembly. You know, the law governing the local government is made by the house of assembly. And you don’t allow them to be selected as the supervisory councilor, education supervisor, works supervisor, none. So, what is the function, why have I elected these people? Just to sit down and share money at the end of the month? That is how stupid and absolutely idiotic the concept of presidential system at the local government level is. You’re just electing people to do nothing, but share money at the end of the month? So, I said it would happen in Akwa Ibom. I said if I go to the trouble of electing people as councilors, I’ll give them jobs, they cannot just be sitting there, sharing salaries at the end of the month because they don’t make their own laws. Let somebody sit down and tell me what are the functions of councilors? Nothing, unless you give them what to do. It is only the parliamentary system that would give them something to do. So, I ran a parliamentary system at the local government level. If was allowed, I would have ran it at the state level as well. But the constitution would not allow me. A/Ibom APC Elders Warn Buhari Against Nominating Akpabio Minister Away from the democracy in Nigeria now, how would you rate the outcome of the 2019 general elections? I am very happy with the results. I’m not talking about how it was done, or how it wasn’t done, but, at least, this time I voted. The last time, I wasn’t allowed. So, I have to say it was very good. But apart from that, certainly in Akwa Ibom it was very good. There’s no question about that. People voted. It was the people who put Governor Udom Emmanuel there for a second term, and we know it. I’m not going to talk about it nationally because I wasn’t there. But, as far as I’m concerned, the results are very satisfactory to me.