ABUJA – The Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) has urged the Federal Government to adopt the global best practices in funding Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria. Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, President of ACCI, who made the call in Abuja during strategic partnership buildingmeetingwithDrDikkoRadda, Director-General, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), advocated targeted funding mechanism for SMEs to boost the country’s economy. Adetokunbo noted that Nigeria needed institution that its focus would be principal on SMEs. According to him, “I have been expressing my worry at the way and manner our SMEs are funded which is normally through the commercial banks and other intervention funds domiciled in different institutions. “The mechanism of funding for SMEs is tedious, the strategy of government is good, the intention to fund is there but how do we get the money to those that need it. Kayode said that institutions like Bank of Industry (BoI) and Bank of Agriculture (BoA) are not structured for long time funding. He said that the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the Chamber and SMEDAN would serve as their modest effort in developing the economy of Nigeria. The President of ACCI said that public-private partnership cooperation would lead to opening up so many opportunities for the country and those who operate under the mandate of your agency. He requested that SMEDAN should enroll in the Chamber as one of its Business Membership Organisation (BMO). “There is need to adopt ACCI as talent incubation hub; go into partnership with us in the area of capacity building as well as skills acquisition,’’ Kayode said. According to him, the four centres in the chambers were aimed at helping the government to handle the basic problem of capacity development in critical areas. Also speaking, the Director General of SMEDAN, said that the major challenge for SMEs in the country was not just only funding but also capacity building. “We need to do so much in the area of capacity building, this collaboration is good start for SMEs in the country,” he said. Radda said that the country needed to come up with strategies to assist SMEs. According to him, 98 per cent of SMEs in the country are micro businesses. He said that most of the SMEs are mostly informal because they are not registered, have no bank accounts and lack basic entrepreneurship. Radda said that commercial banks interest was more than one digit and so was not suitable for SMEs.