LAGOS – At least, seven pregnant women, three critically sick and a 66 years old man, Evangelist Kehinde Gideon Obala from Badagry, were among the 195 Nigerians repatriated from Libya on Wednesday night. The 195 returnees marked the largest continent ever brought back by the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) with assistant from the European Union (EU) since the repatriated exercise began in 2017. Most of the returnees, who were happy to return to Nigeria, had sorry tales to recount from the North African country. The latest batch of returnees consisted of adult males and females, as well as toddlers were brought back to Nigeria through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. Al Buraq Air from Sabha with the flight number: UZ 389/22 and registration number 5A-DMG SEB had touched down at the airport at 8:20pm on Wednesday night. The returnees were made up of 71 female adults, 25 female children and 17 female Infants 17. Also, male adults were 60, male children 12, while male infants were 10. In all, the females were 113, while males were 82 with adults as 131, children as 37 and infants as 27 including three males with minor medical issues and seven pregnant women. The returnees were received in the country by officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and other government officials. Idris Muhammed, the Coordinator of NEMA Territorial Office in Lagos, who received the Assisted Voluntary Returnees at the cargo wing of the airport, said that the returnees were the 69th batch brought back by IOM in special intervention programme to repatriate stranded irregular migrants trapped in Libya with funding by European Union. Muhammed, while welcoming the returnees back on arrival, urged youths to try and look inward and utilise the money they wasted foreign travels on something more fruitful. He noted that since the EU had closed its borders for irregular migrants, the journey through irregular means had become wasteful and dangerous. He noted that if the returnees had used the huge amount of money spent on these journeys in Nigeria for a business, they would have been very successful in their endearvours.