Lagos – Edson Arantes do Nascimento, known as Pelé, is a Brazilian retired professional footballer, who played as a forward. He is regarded by many in the sport, including football writers, players, and fans, as the greatest player of all time. So when in 1985 during the maiden edition of the FIFA/Kodak U-16 Championship in China, he predicted that at the turn of the 20th century, Nigeria will win the FIFA World Cup, there were few people thought otherwise. His prediction was premised on the Golden Eaglets’ performance at the championship winning it beating Germany 2-0 in the final. However, 34 years after, the prediction is still a mirage. Nigeria’s best performance at the World Cup was reaching the second round at its maiden appearance in 1994 in USA. Since that maiden appearance, when the world hailed her, their performances have failed to make that prediction become a reality. Several reasons have been adduced for this failure, chief of which is the allegation of prosecuting age grade tournaments with players’ with questionable ages. However, using players’ with questionable ages is a function of our penchant for winning at all cost. Chief Adegboye Onigbinde, former FIFA and CAF technical committee member, in an interview said that “we are not developing football in the country.” A coach who pleaded anonymity accused the Nigeria Football Federation of lacking the understanding of why FIFA introduced aged tournaments. “These aged tournaments are meant to discover and nurture young talents. But in this country we have turned it into championships that must be won. We’ve lost the essence of these age grade events. And until we realise our mistake and revert to the original concept, we will not achieve much at the senior level.” A good example of countries that understood the essence of the age grade tourneys and have worked within its tenets to achieve success will help us understand why we must change our mindset about these tournaments. When the curtain fell on the 1997 FIFA U17 World Cup in Egypt, the Brazilian youngsters were honoured with the gold medal after they defeated Ghana 2-1 in the final, while Spain finished third ahead of Germany whom they also defeated with the same margin in the losers’ final. Spain, however, produced both the tournament’s top scorer in David Rodriguez-Fraile, who later retired at the age of 21 due to injury, and best player of the tournament in Sergio Santamaría, who later played for both Barcelona and Malaga. But in keeping faith with FIFA’s main essence of coming up with age grade competitions, virtually all the players that played in that competition graduated to the U20 team and upgraded their performance during the 1999 FIFA U-20 World Cup in Nigeria. Players like Iker Casillas, Cesar Navas, Xavi Hernandez, Gabri, among others formed the bulk of the players Spain took to Nigeria for the 1999 U-20 World Cup. Instead of finishing third like the cadet World Cup two years ago, they won the U-20 Cup, beating Japan 4-0 inside the main bowl of the National Stadium in Lagos with Pablo, Gabri and Barkero grabbing the goals. During the World Cup in 2010 in South Africa, Spain paraded over 60 percent of the all-conquering U-20 team and shocked the world, beating The Netherlands 1-0 in the final, as Andres Iniesta scored the extra time goal that condemned the Orange to yet another FIFA World Cup final defeat. One unique thing is that the Spanish did not pay so much emphasis on winning that 1997 U-17 World Cup in Egypt but used the event as a building process towards raising a formidable squad for the main national team, who conquered the world 13 years later. Another remarkable transition is the French squad that won the last World Cup in Russia. Ending in the quarter final in the 2011 FIFA U-17 World Cup, they integrated to the U-20 squad and won the coveted U-20 World Cup in 2013. Majority of the players including the Manchester United’s Paul Pogba continued their progression until they won France’ second World Cup in Russia last year. FIFA came up with age group competitions in order to breach talent gaps in various national teams as well as club sides. The emphasis on this tournament is not basically to keenly contest for the trophies but to use the platform as veritable ground to raise future stars of the game. This is why the European and some South American countries employ a more effective age group progressive system to provide talents for the national teams. Through the age group competitions like the U-17, U-20 and U-23, football stars had continued to be discovered. For instance, such tested players like the legendary Diego Maradona, Bebeto, Romario, Lionel Messi, Paul Pogba, Pique, Xavi Hernandez, Andre Iniesta, among others, dominated and still dominating the game for both club and country. They were products of age group competitions. For a country very keen on taking advantage of the opportunity presented by age grade competitions, the emphasis, as earlier noted, will not be on winning these various competitions, but on developing young players to reach their peak in the game. This is why analysts have wondered why Nigeria’s dominant outings in the FIFA U-17 World Cup, with five triumphs, have not rubbed off on the other national teams, particularly as the country is yet to win the FIFA U20 World Cup. To so many Nigerians, particularly, the sports writers, the disconnect is not unconnected with the alleged penchant of Nigerian youth team coaches to put so much energy on winning the cup at the expense of throwing up future talents for the country, hence supposedly prosecuting the competitions with players far older than the required ages. Not only in Nigeria; it has become a phenomenon in Africa to put all resources and underhand activities towards winning the age group competitions at the expense of the main motive for establishing the stop-gap championships. This is not to say the age-cheating syndrome takes place in Africa only. Europe, South America and the other continents have all had their share of age fraud in football but the practice in Africa is alarming and that has led to African players retiring at ages their peers in Europe are still very much active in the game. It is still fresh to recall the age saga that broiled across Europe concerning African stars like Nwankwo Kanu, Obafemi Martins, and Julius Aghahowa and not forgetting the scandal involving Samuel Eto’o and the then coach at Chelsea, Jose Mourinho who claimed that the Cameroonian is older than what he says he is. It is also fresh on our minds how Taiye Taiwo, in 2012, marked his 25th birthday, while his twin sister was marking another. On average, African players, according to our investigation, retire when barely clocking 30 years but Cristiano Ronaldo and Messi are years above that age bracket and are still the two main gladiators in the global football today. After a near-perfect display at the youth tournaments, Nigerian and indeed African players fizzle out. For instance, a case of several Nigerian ‘young’ players who shone like stars at the U17 World Cup but failed to hold their own after the cadet championship is very prominent. For example, Dele Ajiboye was rated far ahead of David De Dea of Spain at the 2007 U17 World Cup in South Korea which Nigeria won. But today, De Gea is keeping for Manchester United and is one of the best goalkeepers in the world, while Ajiboye, keeping for Plateau United, is still struggling to break into the Super Eagles. Also, Chrisantus Macaulay was the top scorer in that same cadet championship, while Toni Kroos of Germany was the best player. Today, Macaulay is no where to be found but Kroos is playing for Real Madrid while Bojan Krkić, who was Macaulay’s opposite number in that final against Spain, is playing for Deportivo Alavés in his country. Xavi was among the all-conquering Spain team at the Nigeria ’99 FIFA U20 World Cup. He and a number of his contemporaries are still playing at the highest level while the last known member of the squad from Nigeria is former Super Eagles captain, Joseph Yobo, who retired from football a couple of years back. Similarly, but for John Mikel Obi and Isaac Promises, as well as Chinedu Obasi, Nigeria’s squad members to the 2003 FIFA U17 World Cup have all gone extinct, 16 years after the cadet championship, even as a country like Spain can boast of a reasonable number of that era still playing actively even though most of them are understandably no more in their national teams. Most surprising are the members of the Nigeria 2009 FIFA U17 World Cup, who, except Ogenyi Onazi, Kenneth Omeruo and, to an extent, Olanrewaju Kayode, have all disappeared from the scene, just 10 years after the event. But Neymar Junior, who plays for Brazil and PSG featured in that event. Philippe Coutinho as well as Caemiro, Joao Pedro, Alisson and Giovani are also some of the members of the championship from Brazil who are still making waves in their national teams and their clubs. Perhaps the best example of putting less emphasis on winning and looking more on grooming talents is the Brazilian squad as mentioned above. The young Samba failed to make it from Group B that had eventual winners, Switzerland, Mexico and Japan in Nigeria 2009 U17 World Cup. But they still produce the stars that we mentioned above. Nigeria went up to the quarter final but today, what remained of the squad are struggling in their leagues. Still in the same tournament, Granit Xhaka of Switzerland is a household name in both Arsenal and his country because the Swiss knew what they wanted then. Alvaro Morata of Spain is a key member of his country’s national team as well as Atlético Madrid. Isco is another player of note. He played against Nigeria in 2009 U17 World Cup but today, he is a household name with Real Madrid. Koke of Athletico Madrid was in the same tournament and is still an integral member of the Spanish national team. Kelechi Iheanacho was the toast of fans at the U17 World Cup in the United Arab Emirate, winning the best player award. Immediately, he was snapped by Manchester City w but has failed to replicate that form that made him to be toast of the football world. Incidentally, notable Nigerians have never hidden their sentiments against this trend. Former Green Eagles player, Adokiye Amasiemaka, then exposed the age cheats inherent in the Nigerian system when he revealed that the captain of the Nigerian silver-winning team to the FIFA U17 World Cup in Nigeria, Fortune Chukwudi, was far older to play that tournament, revealing that he managed Chukwudi at the then defunct Sharks of Port Harcourt. Amasiemaka said: “In the 2002/2003 season, I was chairman of Sharks Football Club of Port Harcourt. I decided to have a feeder team of fresh school leavers not older than 20 years. One of my key players then is the current captain of our so-called U17 Golden Eaglets. By his own admission at that time, that is seven years ago, he was 18 years old…If we are not utterly irresponsible, how can he be eligible for this tournament when he is not less than 25 years old now? Amiesimaka said then. But Chukwudi led Nigeria to the second place and then his career nosedived after then, but his central defensive partner, Omeruo, is still part of the Super Eagles, even though the former was rated better than Omeruo. Amasiemaka threw more punches on the players that prosecuted that cadet championship in Nigeria. “Stanley Okoro (little Messi), for instance, has no business in that team, which everybody knows; he cannot be anything less than 33 or 34. “Olarenwaju Kayode was also my player in the Sharks feeder team in 2002, he played alongside Fortune Chukwudi, both of them were mates, he too cannot be less than 29 or 30. Abdul Ajagun was one of the highest goal scorers in the league. He was also in Command Secondary School in Kaduna or so, he dropped out of school in SSS2 in the 1990s and so cannot be U-17.” According to Kojo Williamam, until Nigeria pay less attention on winning the cadet championship and stop using overage players, the country would still struggle to make appreciable impact in the global community. “I don’t see Nigerian football getting out of the quagmire, the problem it is in, today, is because corruption is getting deeper and deeper. From time to time, we get flashes where we do well in some competitions with overage players and we celebrate. That was one of the issues I looked at; we can’t keep using overage players. We used over-age players for junior championships, I know that. Why not say it? Amasiemaka further said of the development. “Age grade teams are meant to help develop a serious senior national team, but we are not doing that. I passed through the age grade level, I played for my secondary school, played for the Lagos team in the National Sports Festival, I played for the national academicals team, and I played for the university and the senior national team. I went through a process and that is how it should be, that is the truth.” So after missing the last FIFA U17 World Cup in India, Nigeria qualified for the 2019 edition taking place in Brazil later in the year and Nigerians are of the opinion that Coach Manu Garba should look at building talents that will impact on the country in years to come and not necessarily winning the championship. Heading to Brazil, a lot of money will be spent but all that will mean nothing if the coach will use the platform to discover another ‘Cristiano Ronaldo’ or ‘Lionel Messi’. With such discovery, the main reason for this competition would have been realised in Nigeria.