Lagos – After what looked like a rumour filtered in April that Wilfred Ndidi, the Leicester City and Super Eagles midfielder, would be quitting bachelorhood, the player finally confirmed that rumour as he had his traditional marriage earlier in the week in Abuja. The traditional marriage, which attracted some of his colleagues at the King Power Stadium, including compatriot, Kelechi Iheanacho, was also in the full glare of his family members. The player and his long time heart-robe, simply called Dinma, had the event at a luxury home in the Nigerian capital city. Dinma, who is a medical student and hails from Kogi State, stole Ndidi’s heart before the 2015 FIFA U-20 World Cup in New Zealand and since then he has not looked back. So madly in love with Dinma, Ndidi had to display her name in his boots during the junior championship. Three years later, Ndidi who has been named the Europe’s best tackler with Leicester City did same during the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia where Nigeria crashed out in the group stage. On the field, he has continued to improve his importance for Leicester, helping them win more balls in the midfield area than any other player. The Super Eagles midfielder, who was among stats leaders in the recently concluded 2018/2019 English Premier League, will take his time to enjoy being married before the squad resumes in camp ahead of their 2019 African Cup of Nations campaign in Egypt. Nigeria will confront Zimbabwe in Asaba the Delta State capital, before heading to Egypt to face the number one ranked team in Africa, Senegal as part of preparations for the historic tournament. Meanwhile, Ndidi was part of the Nigerian youth setup during his time at Nathaniel Boys of Lagos. While playing the African U-17 Championship with Nigeria, he was excluded along with two other players from the competition as a precaution, following an MRI age test that suggested he was just slightly above the threshold. Notwithstanding, he joined up with his teammates in the U-20 team the following year, forming the bedrock of the midfield. He was called up to the senior Nigeria national football team on October 8 2015, making his debut in the friendly game against DR Congo, and playing again a few days later in the 3–0 win against Cameroon, when he replaced John Obi Mikel in the 63rd minute.