LAGOS – A 33-year-old student of the University of Abuja, Allen Abiodun, was yesterday sentenced to death by Lagos High Court sitting in Ikeja High Court, for killing his younger brother, one Allen Wale with a broken bottle. Abiodun was found guilty and convicted of an offence of Murder contrary to Section 221 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2011, six years after he was arraigned for murder. Abiodun was arraigned on the 20th of February, 2013 for killing his brother, Wale at Imude Village, Oto-Awori. Earlier, the State Prosecution, O. R Ahmed-Muil, had called four witnesses against the convict. Ahmed-Muil told the court that the convict attacked his younger brother with a broken bottle, stabbed him severally at the right side of his neck, dragged his body to a bush and covered it with leaves. One of the witnesses, Sunday Abogunrin (PW2), a landlord of the convict, had testified that Abiodun was a troublesome fellow who fought his siblings at any slight provocation. Abogunrin, a building contractor, told the court that he caught the convict dragging the deceased body into a bush after he had killed him. According to the witness, “I know the defendant because I live close to their residence. I’ve known the defendant since his childhood and his entire family. “On 20th February, 2013, at about 1-2a.m, I heard dogs barking. initially, people around were afraid to come out to clarify what was irritating the dogs for fear of robbers but later on they all came out, including me. “I later went out to investigate the cause of the noise. But I noticed someone dragging something into the nearby bush. I initially wanted to raise an alarm but instead, I put my torch on and the person ran off towards the Defendant’s house. “I immediately followed to see who it was only to meet the Defendant washing his hands, covered in blood, near the well. I quickly alerted the Baale of the community, who then ordered the youths to apprehend him. PW2 further said that convict also broke his sister’s hand and smacked his other brother’s head while attempting to escape when the community youths came to apprehend him. “He was finally apprehended by the help of some Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) members who intervened and they took him to the Baale’s palace,” he said. Also , the Investigating Police Officer, ASP Uthman Lamidi (PW4), from llemba Hausa Police Station stated that he was on duty when the report about the incident was lodged at his station. Lamidi said that himself and his team immediately went to the Oba’s Palace, arrested the Defendant there and went with him to the crime scene. The IPO stated that at the scene, he saw the deceased’s body and upon interrogating the defendant, he admitted killing his younger brother with a broken bottle and was about to go bury the corpse when he was intercepted. “I handcuffed the defendant and took him away. The Defendant followed him willingly and confessed killing his younger brother. His confession was read over to him and he signed it while I countersigned. In the course of investigation, we also discovered that the defendant had threatened to kill his late brother several times before actually doing it that day,” he said. Meanwhile, the convict, in his defence, claimed that the deceased was not his biological brother and but admitted killing him. On one part of his confessional statement, he said, ” I am a student of the University of Abuja. The deceased is not my biological brother because his father had worked for my father. I have five siblings (four brothers and a sister). My mother’s name is Rita Allen and she is from China. My parents are Chinese. The deceased is not related to me”. While on the other part, he wrote, “The deceased is my younger brother. I was at the parlour sleeping, at exactly 12 midnight, when he (deceased) came to my room and pointed a torch light on my face. “He told me that he would kill me if am not careful of him. He kept threatening me until I got up angrily, took a bottle and stabbed him on his right neck. He fell down, I went to him and told him that he would bleed and die, which he eventually did. “When he died, I dragged his body to a nearby bush to bury it. I hide his corpse and covered it with leaves so that no one could see it. I then went back home and washed off the blood stains on my hand. “My younger brother has been threatening to kill me for the past two years now and am happy I’ve finally killed my enemy,” he said. Following his confessional statement and the evidence of other prosecution witnesses, Justice Raliatu Adebiyi sentences Abiodun to death. Justice Adebiyi said that the prosecution had proven its case of murder beyond reasonable doubt against the defendant. The judge while delivering the judgement said: “The defendant is hereby found guilty and convicted of the murder of his brother, Allen Wale. “You, Allen Abiodun, is hereby sentenced to death. May God, the giver of life, have mercy on you”.