LAGOS – The Federal Government has stated that it is set to spend a total of N1.22 billion for the construction of residential barracks and the acquisition of modern communication gadgets for the personnel of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, made the disclosure while briefing State House correspondents in Abuja shortly after a meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari. Ahmed said the accommodation was important because the NCS, being a para-military organisation, want to ensure that its personnel were kept in barracks. “The Nigeria Customs got approval today for acquisition of residential accommodation for the staff of the service. “What the Customs is acquiring is an estate that has a total of 42 flats and the total cost is N152 million per block of six units. “The approval that we got today is in the total sum of N970.2 million inclusive of VAT.” According to her, the NCS, in its desire to upgrade its services to international best practice in information and communication, also got an approval to procure modern communication gadgets. She listed some of the gadgets as HF radios, BHF radios, walkie-talkies, cable towers and accessories. The minister said that the gadgets were necessary for the Nigeria Customs to enhance its end-to-end encryption of messages delivery to avoid tapping by unscrupulous elements, smugglers and their cohorts. “The need has become necessary because of increased onslaught by the service on smuggling and other illegal economic activities. “The contract that was approved is in the total sum of N247.907 million inclusive of five per cent VAT and the equipment will be delivered within a period of eight weeks.” Ahmed said that the third paper that was approved for the ministry was an automation project that it had been working on for a very long time. According to her, the Project Lighthouse is an initiative of ministry of finance — a data warehousing system that is integrating different tax related data for the purpose of accurate and effective revenue assessment. She said the project would also serve in the determination of assets and income status for both corporate and individual tax payers. “It will help us improve on our tax revenue collection efforts both at the federal and states level. “The total project cost is in the sum of N710 million,” she said.