Ibrahim Magu, acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), last Wednesday stirred the hornet nest. He alleged that some state governors had been deliberately fuelling insecurity in their states, just to collect more money as security vote. According to him, some of the governors “now covertly promote insecurity as justification to inflate their security vote.” Magu, who also maintained that there was a link between corruption, banditry and terrorism, spoke in Abuja at the induction of returning and newly-elected state governors held at the Presidential Villa. He spoke through a paper, titled, “Imperative of Fighting Corruption/Terrorism Financing in Nigeria,” which he presented during the programme. Magu said that a debate on the legality of the security vote enjoyed by the governors was ongoing, but that he had chosen to refrain from joining the fray. He said: “We have also seen evidence of theft of public resources by some state governors –  cashing in on the insecurity in their states. Insecurity has also offered the required oxygen for corruption to thrive as evident in the $2.1bn arms procurement scandal involving top military commanders both serving and retired.” On corruption and insurgency, he stressed, “Mass poverty in the region, due in part to corruption by the ruling elite, is largely to blame for the ease with which the Islamists are able to recruit fighters to sustain their aggression against the Nigerian state.” He added: “As an investigator, I am shocked by the quantum of resources stolen from the Niger Delta Development Commission by those who run the intervention agency. It is so bad that even a mere personal assistant to a former Managing Director was charged with stealing over N3bn.” He called on the governors to avoid stealing of public funds, saying, “Whether we like it or not, corruption and terrorism have become the twin evils, undermining our collective efforts to make Nigeria a truly great country.” Magu’s allegation against the state governors seemed so serious that as a cross section of the public had been wondering if it should not be investigated. Magu’s Allegation Should Be Investigated – Lawyer Steve Obere Aimiegbereta, a Benin-based legal practitioner, said: “Mr. Magu, the EFCC, is a high profile security officer, who should know more about security situation than anybody else in this country.  For him to have made such allegation against serving governors is an issue that should be given special attention. “First, I will want the Nigeria press to engage Magu to tell Nigerians more about what he knos about the governors fuelling insecurity to get more security votes. One funny thing about this present administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari is its docility about the security of the nation, which I believe led to the daily deterioration of security situation of the country. “The EFCC boss made this allegation for over a week now and no reaction from the Federal Government, let alone setting machinery in motion to investigate it. “Unless something is being done secretly without making it public for security reasons, if not, I don’t see any reason why a high powered investigating panel should not be constituted to investigate these governors who he alleged, instigate crises that lead to loss of lives in their states in order to get more security votes. Shedding innocent blood for personal enrichment is a heinous crime and should be treated as such, no matter the position of the person involved. There should be no immunity for such persons. Magu’s allegation should be investigated because his allegation is too weighty to be ignored, especially when the lives involved are those the governors were sworn to protect.” His Assertion Is False – PDP Chief Chief Donald Brosu, a member of the Delta State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Organisation for the 2019 general elections, reacted as follows: “That assertion by the EFCC chairman is false. In fact, it is a wrong assumption that has no basis. No governor will fuel insecurity to increase his security vote. So, I am of the opinion that, that claim should not be investigated.” Magu’s Allegation Is Serious -Onuosoke Chief Sunny Onuoseke, a PDP chieftain in Delta State, stated: “I will say, it is a very serious allegation and as such should not only be investigated, it should be taken with serious attention. It is the height of insincerity, callousness, and selfishness for a sitting governor to sit down and watch while his people are being maimed, tortured, robbed, kidnapped and killed, not to talk of fueling such nefarious activities.” Magu Playing To The Gallery – ADP Scribe Chief Dominic Mbanwe Iwunna, Secretary, Action Democratic Party (ADP), Ehime Mbano, in Imo State, stated: “The EFCC chairman is funny and is just playing to the gallery. How can governors who are the Chief Security Officers of their states fuel insecurity in their states, just to make money? “How credible is this statement? Is the EFCC chairman saying that there is no other way the governors  can get more money through security votes other than to fuel insecurity in their states? To me, this statement lacks credibility and should be assigned into dust bin. “We should not waste our time, resources, and energy to embark on any form of jamboree in the guise of investigation.” Magu Should Come Up With Facts – AGA Women Leader Nneoma Eunice Ibeawuchi, Women Leader, All Grassroots Alliance (AGA), Nwangele LGA, Imo State: “If the governors fuel insecurity in their states in order to get more security votes and at the end of the day, all their subjects perish, who will they govern? It is only an insane leader that can do this. But, if the EFCC chairman has his facts, let him come up with it, otherwise, we should ignore him. FG Should Investigate Magu’s Claim – Social Critic Nifemi Adejuwon, a social critic, has called on the Federal Government to investigate the claims by the Chairman of Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, that some state governors fuel insecurity in their respective states. Adejuwon said that there might be elements of truth in the claim because Nigerians of today are so desperate so to say. He maintained that performance of some of these governors can also fuel insecurity in their respective states as they have done nothing to address the problems facing their people. He lamented that the political class is behind most challenges facing the country because some of the youths that were trained in arm handling as thugs had been those perpetrating the evils in the society. He said: “For instance, it is the inability of the government to address the problem of unemployment that snow ball into vices such as thuggery, banditry, kidnapping, robbery, ‘yahoo yahoo’ (internet fraud) and others.” He said that investigating such claims by government is not a sin, but a means of correcting social malice and if anybody is found wanting, such political figure should be made to face the music.