With so many other problems around the world, including a trade war in China and a nuclear stand-off with North Korea, it is hard to understand why the US has chosen this moment to talk up the prospects of a war with its old enemy Iran. In a move that is all too reminiscent of the lead up to the invasion of Iraq in 2003, White House officials, led by national security adviser John Bolton, have started hinting at the possibility of an attack on the Islamic republic. Pentagon officials say they have discussed sending 120,000 extra troops to the region and they have repeated an untested claim by Saudi Arabia about an attack on oil tankers in the Persian Gulf. We have seen this movie before and it had a sad ending. In the lead up to the invasion of Iraq, the US spent months exaggerating the threat from Saddam Hussein’s non-existent weapons of mass destruction. The war that followed was a disaster, sapping western moral authority, killing more than 100,000 people and contributing to regional instability and the rise of Islamic State. Invading Iran would likely be even more bloody. Certainly there is nothing wrong with applying pressure on Iran, a tyrannical and corrupt regime which the US blames for supporting regional terrorist groups and developing long-range missiles that could potentially be used against Israel. But the US has been applying pressure for four decades and there is no obvious new threat to justify a new Middle East war. It is the US which has suddenly raised the temperature by tearing up a deal signed with Iran and four other countries in 2015 which ended sanctions in exchange for Iran shutting down its nuclear weapons programs. Even though Iran complied with the deal, the US has just slapped new sanctions on Iranian metals exports and on countries that buy Iranian oil. Iran has now responded with a threat to restart its nuclear program. Australia is caught in the middle because it wants to back its US ally while on the other hand it has long supported a policy of engagement with Iran. After the US announced its new sanctions, Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne last week considered the situation important enough to issue a statement, even though the government is in caretaker mode. ALP spokeswoman Penny Wong was also briefed. Ms Payne urged Iran to continue complying with the nuclear deal and said that the nuclear deal’s objectives were “worthy and serve the best interests of peace, stability and regional security”. The US has already opened a rift with its allies by tearing up the nuclear deal and talk of war will only make it harder to build an alliance of like-minded countries to try to curb Iran’s behaviour. European countries have suggested they might find ways to allow Iran to avoid US sanctions provided the leaders continue to honour the nuclear deal. Of course, as with much else in the Trump administration, the bellicose rhetoric against Iran could well just be a show to burnish the President’s reputation as a tough guy and deal maker on the world stage. But with the memory of Iraq still all too fresh, Australia can show it is a friend to the US by advising against making the same mistake twice. We should make it clear to the hawks in the White House that we have no intention of following the US into an unprovoked war against Iran.