LAGOS – The announcement by the Presidency penultimate week that May 29 handover celebration would be low-keyed while June 12 would herald the real democratic inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term is at once an endorsement of the historical sacrifices of some of Nigeria’s champions of civilian rule, and at the same time a wait-and-see position of the Buhari’s presidency whose legitimacy is still being contested at the Presidential Election petition tribunal. The Federal Government of Nigeria has said that both May 29 and June 12 would be observed as Public Holidays. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed made this known at a world press conference in Abuja Monday May 10 when asked by journalists if May 29 will still retain its status as Public Holiday. The Minister also said that activities leading to the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari officially kicks off that day 20 May with the press conference. “On the issue of Public Holiday, I believe that 29th May is Public Holiday. Of course June 12, you can see the National Assembly. The National Assembly has also proclaimed it a national holiday.” ,Said the Minister. According to him, the official commencement of the new Democracy Day in 2019 was in fulfillment of President Buhari’s declaration in 2018. He added, “Activities leading to the inauguration of Mr President officially kick off today with this media conference and will be followed on Tuesday by the commencement of a three-day National Youth Entrepreneurship Empowerment Summit.” The Minister had explained that the decision to have a low-key inauguration for the President was taken at the meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on Wednesday, 8th May 2019. He said, however, that invitations have been sent to all world leaders to attend the ceremonies marking the observance of the Democracy Day on June 12. According to him, ”Since the first observance of June 12 as Democracy Day falls into an election year, and as a measure to sustain June 12 as Democracy Day, the celebration of the inauguration and the advancement of democracy in the country will now take place on June 12.” He said that it would be too much on the country to afford two major celebrations within a two-week interval. The Minister said the details of the events slated for the two ceremonies will be unveiled soon. Prior to the kickoff of 2019 political campaign season, the President Buhari while playing host to some progressive politicians of South West stock who paid him a courtesy call at Aso Rock had promised to ensure that June 12 every year is observed as public holiday in honor of all those who fought for the enthronement of democracy by their personal and group sacrifices in the heydays of military dictatorship between 1993 and 1998. President Buhari made the declaration in a statement he personally signed after the visit in June last year after the visit by the Afenifere leaders. He said then that government shared the view of Nigerians that June 12 was more symbolic than May 29 or even Oct.1 as Democracy Day . “June 12 ,1993 was the day when Nigerians in millions expressed their democratic will in what was indisputably the freest, fairest election since our independence. “The fact that the outcome of that election was not upheld does not distract from the democratic credentials of the process”, he had said. The president also announced the decision of government to give a posthumous national award of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) to Abiola, the presumed winner of the election. He also said the acclaimed winner of the election, Moshood Abiola’s running mate, Amb.Baba Gana Kingibe and late late Gani Fawehinmi, a leading fighter in the June 12 struggle would be awarded the GCON national honors. Leader of Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo jubilating at the presidential gesture said then that the declaration though belated was a welcome development. Reacting, human rights lawyer, Chief Femi Falana said during the 25th anniversary of June 12 last year, “by declaring June 12 Democracy Day the Federal Government has officially validated the integrity of the credible election that was criminally annulled by the Ibrahim Babangida junta. By recognizing June 12 as Democracy Day the Federal Government has put an end to the hypocrisy of May 29 which was proclaimed by the Olusegun Obasanjo regime. This year’s celebration provides a golden opportunity to review the democratic journey with a view to strengthening the fragile democratic process.” Also a restructuring activist, Chief Aloma Nwachukwu said: “I suspect Government would want to see how the petitions arising from the Presidential Elections are finally determined, and that is why it opted for a low key celebration. The major celebration holding on June 12 would coincide with national and popular notion that that date marks enthronement of popular democracy and rule of law which are the bedrock of true democracy. Beside, considering the mood of the country in terms of economy, insecurity, a low key inauguration is needed so as not to provoke reactionary aggrieved groups here and there when people are complaining about the state of the nation. Also until the petitions are thoroughly done through by the Presidential Election Tribunal, it does not make sense for the government to be celebrating and beating its chest because you don’t pre-empt the decision of the courts”. From all indications, It appears the Buhari-led government is not bothered whether his re-election is being challenged at the Tribunal, even as INEC keep on making contradictory claims about the integrity of the elections it conducted between February and march this year. At one point it claims it transmitted all its poll results to its server, while at other times claiming that it did not, while some of its resident commissioners insist they transmitted all collated poll result into the Commissions central server. Barely seven days to the May 29 inauguration day, main opposition party to Buhari’s re-election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and the PDP hierarchy have formally filed an application at the Presidential Election Tribunal challenging INEC’s refusal to allow it thorough verification of collated results during the election, even as one of the judges hearing the petition has been asked to recuse herself because her son was an APC gubernatorial candidate up North and publicly campaigned for the re-election of the president. Led by their Chief Counsel, Dr Ley Uzoukwu, the complainants believed that Justice, Bulkachuwa, one of the Seven-man Tribunal jury is already biased against the complainants. With a not-so cheering reel of stories since the Presidential election conducted about three months ago, it is not surprising why the government accepted, for the first time in the history of Nigeria’s presidential inauguration—“a low-keyed” one.