From palletised and international distribution, through to contract logistics and warehousing, Expect have built long term partnerships with their clients, delivering real competitive advantage through the provision of reliable, flexible and profitable logistics operations, logisticsit reports. With a strong and growing infrastructure, Expect recently made the decision to upgrade their RF devices as part of an IT investment and planned growth in their Bradford warehouse operation. Kevin Barnes, Head of Estate’s and Compliance for Expect Distribution comments, “Having looked at the various options on the market it quickly became apparent that TouchStar’s TS8200 would deliver the functionality required for our operations. Following continued success in the warehousing sector we opened our new 193,000 sq. ft. site this year and it was important that we looked to the best technology available to support that operation. Not only is the Touchstar TS8200 rugged, it integrates Android with advanced scanning capability to futureproof high speed data capture within our operation.” Designed in conjunction with TouchStar’s extensive user base, the TS8200 is the latest generation in the TS8000 series. A lightweight and ergonomically designed Android mobile computer, the TS8200’s optimally positioned hard capped keys is the perfect device for Expect’s scan intensive warehouse operation. Not only this, Expect will benefit from the availability of a hot swappable battery, guaranteeing continuous operation and reduced downtime, maximising output and increasing workload efficiency. TouchStar’s Bradford based rugged mobile computing division not only impressed Expect with the new technology, but also their localised support. Kevin continues, “Having worked in partnership with TouchStar we have thoroughly tested the device to test compatibility with our core systems. The support we have received from TouchStar has been excellent, as we look to move towards the full rollout of the solution we look forward to the numerous operational benefits the technology will deliver.“ Peter Marsh, Sales Director for TouchStar comments, “As UK based manufacturer of rugged mobile computers, we are delighted to be supporting Expect through a period of growth and into their new warehouse operation. At TouchStar, not only will we be equipping Expect with our latest Android handheld, but as a locally supported solution, we will be guaranteeing minimum downtime and a reduced cost of ownership. With over 35 years of industry experience, we are confident that the new technology rollout will surpass expectations.