A 25-man Child’s Rights implementation committee was inaugurated yesterday Monday by Agege Local government Area in Lagos. NAN reports that The Federal Government of Nigeria signed into law the Child‘s Rights Act in 2003, with Mandate to states’ governments to domesticate same in their various states In 2007, former governor of Lagos State, Mr Babatunde Fashola signed the Child Rights Act into Law to ensure that children in the state were protected from all forms of abuse and actions that may endangered their lives. Agege local government by the inauguration of the committee takes the lead as the first Local Government Council area in Nigeria to implement child’s rights law. Mrs Abimbola Ushie, Coordinator, Rule of Law and Anti-corruption (RoLAC) programme, funded by EU and implemented by the British Council in Lagos, said the second component of their programme seeks to provide access to justice for women and children. According to Ushie, RoLAC programme focuses on advancing child’s right through the implementation of the provisions the child’s right act, stressing that the committee establishment was a milestone for ROLAC. “The establishment of the Local Government Child‘s Right Implementation Committee (LGCRIC) is a milestone for us at RoLAC because it support section 268 of the Child’s child Act which provides that such committee should be established at LG level. “This committee is charged with the responsibility of initiating actions that will ensure observance and popularisation of Child’s right act at grassroots level. This is the first of its kind in Lagos, prior to now, only the state implementation committee existed. “ROLAC is proud to be part of this laudable development and we charge you all to be committed towards ensuring that the rights of every child is protected,” she admonished. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Social Development in Lagos, Mrs Bola Balogun, represented by a Director in the establishment, Mrs Funlola Peters-Popoola commended the council and ROLAC for the committee. Balogun said The stakeholders met on March 27, 2019 where some councils’ chairmen, including the Agege Chairman agreed for the inauguration of the implementation committee by their councils. “On behalf of the teeming number of children in Lagos State whose course you are championing, I want to say thank you for this bold initiative. This is the duty we owe humanity and God, so that the children can in turn impact positively on the society, “she said. The Chairman Agege LGA, Alhaji Ganiyu Egunjobi, represented by his Chief of Staff, Mr Oriade Ademola Said the council was committed to the welfare of the children in the area, including their rights. He said the council commitment to the welfare of children gave