BENIN – Professor Darlington Obaseki, the Chief Medical Director (CMD), University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), has blamed most of the death of patients in the hospital on late referrals of patients. Obaseki also attributed the deaths to the failure of primary and secondary healthcare system. Addressing a press conference to declare open the hospital’s Inaugural Founder’s Day celebration, Prof. Obaseki said contrary to the public outcry against deaths in the hospital, the death rate was in the range of 10 percent mortality as expected worldwide. He, however, commended the Edo State government on its efforts to strengthen primary and secondary healthcare services in the state which, he said, would make some impart in the influx of patients. Obaseki said, “As we speak, we have about 510 patients in our wards. So if today we discharge 40 and they all go home successfully and maybe five die, to you it is a lot of death but to us in a ratio, it is fair. “There are global standards for judging mortality rate. Our mortality rate is measurable to the best hospitals worldwide and in the advanced societies; it is about 10 percent. “We are hovering around that figure and even that 10 percent, we have said again that the problem we have here is the collapse of all other strata of healthcare delivery. “The private and public hospitals have collapsed, so most of them bring these patients at the point of death; they practically bring them to us to do miracles and we do miracles at times, but nobody acknowledges the miracles we perform on the ones that leave here alive. “There are some that are half dead or quarter dead and they bring them here and that is the one everybody will shout about, that is what you will see in the social media. We are being distracted from our primary mandate which is to provide specialist services. Primary health issues should go to primary healthcare centres, majority of the services we do, not trying to reduce the impact, is common malaria, most of the personnel here still find themselves treating primary health issues. “The bulk of the deaths you see in UBTH are because of late referrals.”