LAGOS – No wonder the year, 1992, will remain indelible when professional football matters are discussed. It was the year the current English Premier League format berthed from the former First Division League. It is to the credit of the year that the privileges enjoyed today by the clubs in terms of huge financial returns amidst others are being experienced. Football in particular and other sports in general will lose the substance if they are not run professionally with emphasis on making business out of the game. The hitherto First Division League saw a lot of financial and logistical inadequacies, leading to the whole top sides resigning from the top division in 1992. Football started 1888 when the Football League was set up by the then Aston Villa chairman, William McGregor. In its original format, it contained just 12 teams, but it grew fairly quickly to a total of 22. After running for more than 104 years, the Football League saw little change in terms of its structure and financial gain, and by the 1980s things had virtually stagnated. Crowds were dropping at the stands, stadiums were crumbling, violence on the terraces was rife, clubs were struggling financially and many of England’s top players moved abroad for more money and better opportunities. Everything changed, however, at the end of 1991/1992 season when all 22 teams in the then First Division resigned en masse and joined a newly set up Premier League, a league created with the backing of the FA. This was the English Premier League. The simple reason they left en mass was due to money and also to devise means of curbing violence and other vices at match venues. Before the Premier League in 1992 and under the jurisdiction of the Football League, the 92 clubs across the four divisions were obliged to share all monies brought in by TV equally, meaning that big clubs like Manchester United earned a mere pittance. They viewed this situation as unfair as they naturally would appear more often on TV than the likes of Rochdale or Gillingham for example. Before leaving the First Division League, the Premier League had already secured a TV rights package worth £304 million that year, and the prospect of such money being shared between just 20 teams was too much to resist, and thus the old Football League was broken up. From the 1992/1993 season onwards, the Premier League became the new top division, operating as a single division, while the Football League continued to operate the three other professional divisions below the Premier League. These examples were to draw the line between what actually constitutes a professional (or as some will call it, premier league) and what does not. According to David Dein, former Arsenal co-owner and vice-chairman of the club and also former vice chairman of the Football Association, “professionalism in running of football entails making sure that the club is a public enterprise open to all business opportunities that are aligned with the game through which, the players, the coaches and all other personnel will have a big stake and make more money.” This is why the players must be paid their weekly wage latest Saturday or the club will risk being declared insolvent and the FA taking charge to make sure that the players are paid. A look at the clubs in the English Premier League will show that changing the club from its hitherto name to the EPL was not a mere rhetoric and nomenclature, but a decision aimed at embracing the true meaning of professionalism where the clubs are run as both business and entertainment entities. Meanwhile, in the 2012/2013 season, the former Nigerian Premier League (NPL) was changed to the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) by the Onyuike Obaseki-led League Management Company in a move not only football stakeholders but virtually every Nigerian saw years later as a mere change of nomenclature with little or nothing to enhance the status of the domestic football. It was like the biblical pouring of new wine into an old bottle with almost no impact in the general administration, organization and remuneration of football in the country. When the LMC was set up as a legal league board or body that was incorporated in November, 2012, by the Nigeria Football Federation to take over the nearly-collapsed NPL, their first step was to rebrand the League name from the Nigerian Premier League to the NPFL or simply the Professional ‘Football’ League. In 2015, the League Management Company solicited financial support from the government in order to upgrade the existing grounds and for provision of required broadcast equipment and facilities in the stadiums. Not only that broadcasting is an integral part of professional football, it does not only provide the sport with exposure to an audience wider than just the audience attending at the stadium, but it also provides revenue in the form of rights fees. But in a thoroughbred professional environment, the league organisers have no business running to the government for assistance in providing broadcast equipment. It is even not for them to provide it but a signed broadcast company will handle all logistics towards beaming the matches live. Its importance cannot be under-estimated. For instance, Liverpool did not win the EPL this season but they earned above Manchester City in the overall earnings simply because The Reds had 29 of their games on TV as against The Citizens with 26 games beamed live. Liverpool earned £149 million while Man City followed with £147.5 million. For more than three seasons now, the Nigerian topflight have not been on the screen, even as some of the relatively ‘smaller’ leagues in the continent are daily shown on pay television stations. On safety, while stakeholders believe that there were some improvements in the just ending season, it can be deduced that safety at match venues remains a setback in the NPFL. Families, who spoke on the development, averred that it remained a risk taking their members to Nigerian stadiums to watch matches. There is still poor orientation of fans on the need to accept the decisions of referees no matter which side the pendulum swings, and the organisers have failed to ensure enough security men at match venues. Discouraging fans from stadiums through insecurity is unprofessional. According to Mark Rubin, former Southend United chairman, “a football club is different from any other business entity. The stakeholders, in this case are the fans. The fans’ investment is their support, while their return comes in the form of the emotional gratification all football fans desire, be it through chasing promotion, surviving relegation or a cup run. In order to guarantee this return, all a football club needs to do is exist.” Speaking on the development, Jonathan Akpoborie, former Nigerian international, said that the country is not running any professional league, saying that insecurity as well as poor remuneration had tended to scare off intending investors in the league. Talking about investors, a professional league must be distanced from government, only trusting the government for the provision of enabling environment for business of the game to flourish. But Nigerian league players are owed months of salaries. With state governments’ still owing clubs in Nigeria, it is unlikely that the sorry situation in the league would change any time soon. This is why a general election would mean suspending the league whereas in England and other countries, government businesses have no effect on football administration. The government’s hold on the game has seen stadiums being littered with images of state governors and their real and imagined achievements, even leasing out stadiums for religious events with little or no consideration for the effects on the facilities. SATURDAY INDEPENDENT visited Agege Stadium during the CAF Champions League match involving MFM and, welcoming spectators at the edifice was an embossed picture of the Lagos State governor’s wife, Bolanle Patience Ambode. What stops MFM from generating money from that upper terrace of the stadium with paid advertisements from corporate organisations majoring in sports equipment? A professional club will cash-in on such eye-catcher to at least get monies for impress and other routine expenses. Speaking to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, a club official from the South West, who declined to be named, said that the solution was to return the clubs to individuals and communities, urging the various governments at different levels to intensify efforts at providing the needed infrastructure. “We can still change the situation and make sure that governments hand off running of football clubs. It may be difficult initially but we can do it, I can tell you. From there, security would be made available at stands and the club owners will sort themselves on how to get TV rights,” he said.