Hon Chris Hassan, a one-time Plateau State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, is the state’s Acting Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  In this interview with ONOJA AUDU, he spoke on the plan to reposition the party in the state, among other issues. How would you react to the recent suspension of the party’s chairman, D.T. Sango, when it is only the NEC of the  party can suspend him from office? Let me tell you that laws are made for the good governance of the people and not animals. Laws are interpreted by human beings. Sango was first elected Chairman of Plateau chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party and that qualifies him to be a member of NEC. There is a difference between a national office holder, that is a NEC member of the party. Sango doesn’t dispense his assignment in Abuja headquarters, but in Plateau State where he was elected to serve as PDP chairman.  If the state that elected him as chairman now says they no longer have confidence  in him and suspend him from office, it stands. It is the members of the party from the state that have told him to his face that they are no longer at home with his one-man show style of leadership, high handedness and running the affairs of the party alone without giving room for other members of his Exco to add any contribution to the running of the party’s affairs on the Plateau. He doesn’t communicate with anybody and that is why he was suspended for one month to give him room for his probe and he has to give way for the probe by the committee that was set up by the leadership of the party. Let me tell you that out of 24 members of the State Executive Committee, 21 of them signed for his suspension and passed a vote of no confidence on him. Likewise, the SEC of the party that ratifies the decision of the state Exco, 65 of them signed for his suspension. So, should anyone tell him again that majority of the party stakeholders have lost confidence on him?   He called a meeting of the SEC, out of 72 members only six persons came and he also went ahead to call a meeting   of the state Exco and nobody turned up .When he took us to the state Commissioner of Police, only him was there without other members of the party Exco . This is democracy era and people must be ready to accept  the decision  of the majority  and may I advise   our suspended Chairman Sango, he should running  around and accept  the will of the party by going one month suspension to be probed after which  the party leadership will reconvene to consider the report of the probe panel  on him and  final decision of his leadership of the party taken in good faith  for the overall good of the party. What do you intend to do now to re-position your party in Plateau State? We love the party and do not want any crisis that would tear the fortunes of the party on the Plateau and that is why  we are trying to reposition the party  to move the party forward on the Plateau because  our  party is well grounded on the Plateau. We won  this state during  the Presidential election and wondered why we should lose  the state during the governorship election and that is why we are at the  tribunal, we believe  something went wrong somewhere and by the grace of God we are hoping to triumph at the Election petition tribunal sitting already in Jos . Was  it true  that  Sango ran  exclusive administration for  over two years he served as your party chairman before he was suspended? Sango was not running the party in the best interest of the majority, but for his personal interest. The problem we had was enormous. Sango went severally to attend NEC meeting and returned without briefing anybody. He was completely running a one-man show. Sango formed campaign council of the party in the last general elections and with no input from anyone. We have the party’s secretary here with us. Let him tell you where such matters were tabled before members of the executive committee for discussion, none. Apart from the Exco, we also have the State Working Committee. They are the people who see to the day-to-day running of the party. Looking at minutes of the meeting, you will not see where such opportunity is given. Sango alone runs the show. We want a leadership of the party that will take us to a greater height PDP is a party that is well loved by the people. We do not want a single individual to destroy the fortunes of the party and goodwill of the people. We need a party leader that will run an all-inclusive administration in the party, who would allow every segments to carry out its responsibilities as assigned by the constitution and not someone who would run  a one-man show. How would you react  to the claim by  Sango that he was not alone spend the funds that was sent from Abuja headquarters for the general elections, claiming  that your party governorship candidate, J.T. Useni was in the picture of what was collected and spent? We are not after the funds  that were collected. That is not our worry. what we are saying is that for every public office, there must be accountability. Whoever he went there to collect the money with, we don’t know because, here in the party, we have  the party secretary, financial secretary, we have treasurer and party officials. I don’t see where in any state a party chairman goes to Abuja to collect funds from the national secretariat. If a party chairman decides to be do so, where will be the place of the financial secretary and treasurer  in  the running of the affairs of the party. If funds are Sango’s problem, funds are not our own problem, because what we are saying here is that he Sango did not carry people along. Let me ask here: When he went to Abuja  to collect campaign fund,s with whom did he discuss with when he came back to Jos? He did not discuss it with the Exco or the SEC of the party and the campaign council. He went for party meetings in Abuja alone and come back to Jos and kept everything they discuss at the meeting to himself alone. We leave him to his conscience and God. The one man show thing is not good for a democratic setting like ours. What we have here is a political party leadership. We are all equal and one man cannot do everything alone. We all must be involved in the decision making of the party. Sango has accused some party elders of having a hand in his travails. Is it true some elders are sponsoring the current crisis? Is Sango himself not an elder of the party just like those he is accusing now.  Sango disappointed the elders of the party, the party SEC and the party supporters who all gave him an opportunity to provide leadership for the party into the 2019 general elections, but were all disappointed. Everyone of us in the Exco are experienced persons that have in several endeavours of life, the smallest person the state Exco is above 48 years. Some of us have served as commissioners, members of Board of agencies and parastatals, members of the state Houses of Assembly and have served the state and the nation in several capacities. Let him tell the people of the state whom he thinks are remote controlling us. Nobody is remote controlling us in the State Executive Committee. When someone has failed in his responsibilities, he looks for any where he could put the blame on. But, in this case, Sango is the architect of his own problems and should be ready to face it alone.