Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – The Nigeria Police has charged six men before an Igbosere Magistrate Court, Lagos for allegedly dispatching hoodlums armed with cutlasses and other dangerous weapons to a parcel of land in Anthony area of Lagos. The six accused persons were arraigned before Chief Magistrate Folake Oshin on six count charges bordering on assault and breech of peace. Names of the accused persons are: Kayode Aiyetiwa, Badmus Gbenga, Monsuru Ajani, Abubakar Rotimi, Kayode Onasanya and Dele Abiodun Adeshina. The accused person who all pleaded not guilty to the charges were also accused of assaulting one Ayodele Opeyemi and Lawal Abideen and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 171 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2015. They were also charged with threatening violence by using dangerous weapons to chase away workers from the said portion of land and thereby committed offenses punishable under section 56(1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015. The suspects in a charge levelled against them by the Police,also assaulted one Akinluyi Onilere by beating him with iron rod on his head which caused him grievous bodily harm and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 173 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State. The suspects were also charged with damaging one bulldozer at a site located at Anthony and thereby committed an offence contrary to section 339 and punishable under section 350 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2015. The suspects allegedly committed the offences between March and April 2017. They however pleaded not guilty to the charge preferred against them by the Police. Magistrate Oshin admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of Five Hundred, Thousand Naira, (500, 000.00) with two sureties in like sum. She also ruled that the sureties must be gainfully employed and one must be a level 14, civil servant. The Magistrate subsequently adjourned till July 24, 2019 for trial. Part of the charge against the suspects reads: “That you Lahore Aiyetiwa and others between the month of March and April 2017, at Anthony area of Lagos, did conduct yourself in a manner that is likely to cause breech of peace by causing a disaffection between on Afolabi Akindele, your employer, who happens to be an attorney to late Madam Efunroye Tinubu’s Estate, with the intention to take over his job.