LAGOS – A Lagos State Special Offences Court, sitting in Ikeja has fixed July 3, for judgment in a suit challenging the sale of a dead woman’s property in Lekki, Lagos by a lawyer and three others. Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo fixed the date after parties in the suit had filed their final written addresses before the court. The defendant, Kole Bello who is a lawyer, is standing trial for allegedly selling a dead woman’s property with forged documents. Bello is standing trial alongside three others, Chukwu Victor, Friday Palmer and Osumah Terry, for allegedly selling a landed property in Lekki, belonging to late Mrs Francisca Awolaja. They are facing a three-count charge bordering on conspiracy, fraud and forgery filed against them by Lagos state government in October 2017. In the charge Bello and others were alleged to have forged a Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) with reference no. 63/63/1989, dated September 28, 1989, of landed property in Lekki, belonging to late Mrs Francisca Awolaja. The defendants were also accused of impersonating the late Awolaja in order to fraudulently sell her land to one Mr Rotimi Olubeko for the sum of N5 million. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charge. At the resumed of the proceedings, the prosecutor, Mrs Olayemi Sarumi said that her final written address dated April 26 had been filed before the court and that she adopted all arguments contained in the document as final in the suit. She urged the court to convict and sentence the defendants as charged. Counsel to the first defendant, Ayotunde Akintunde (SAN) told the court that his final written address was dated April 10 and that all arguments contained in it have been adopted as final arguments in the matter. Akintunde told the court that his final written address was predicated on five issues and cited several relevant authorities to support arguments contained in it and that the prosecution has failed to prove beyond reasonable double doubts the charges filed against his client by the state. He told the court that all the actions the first defendant took were taken as a legal practitioner in a commercial transaction and that the evidences of the witnesses in the matter attested to their contention that the service of a lawyer is always engaged in such transaction. He claimed the evidences of the witnesses contained a lot of inconsistences and doubts and urged the court to resolve such in favour of his client. He said there was no evidence to show conspiracy as the entire transaction took place in the open and in the office of the first defendant, who he said was a legal practitioner. He urged the court to discharge and acquit the first defendant, insisting that no evidence has been laid before the court to convict him. Counsel to the second and third defendants, Francis Udokporoh also told the court that they have adopted all arguments contained in their final written address dated March 22. He said the third defendant has never met any of the parties and that his alleged role in the case was that of referral adding that there was no evidence to show that he was involved in the transaction. In respect of the second defendant, he said all parties in the dispute said they don’t know him and that by the time he joined the transaction, all the preliminaries have been completed. He urged the court to discharge and acquit his clients of the charges. Counsel to the fourth defendant, Mike Moghalu also adopted all arguments in his final written address as final in the matter