Dr. Adegbola Dominic, Lagos State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI speaks on the claim by Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, a former Minister of Works, that he will dump the party for the All Progressives Congress (APC) if his conditions are not met within one month. Excerpts: Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, a chieftain of your party said he has given you certain conditions to be met, adding that failure to do so; he will quit the PDP in one month. Are you working to meet the conditions? This is the third one month notice that Ogunlewe is giving to quit the PDP since he started over two months ago. There is no doubt that this man has been heart and soul in the APC, and is only staying back in order to inflict maximum damage on our party from within, before he finally shows his true colours. In the last elections in Ikorodu LGA, Ogunlewe’s own LGA, the results were manipulated and PDP was shortchanged by over 20,000 votes. Ogunlewe did not utter one word of protest. Instead, he maintained a mischievous silence that betrayed his conspiracy with our APC opponents. Even his son, Moyo, who was our Assembly Candidate in the same election lost woefully to the APC. Would that be the fault of the State Chairman? Ogunlewe has always exhibited crass indiscipline and disrespect for our party leadership and our presidential candidate. He flouts the rules and regulations and decisions of the party at will, and has publicly stated repeatedly that he will only be in a party that will field a presidential candidate from the South West in the next general election, in obvious reference to Bola Tinubu and APC; while the PDP is still preoccupied with issues of the recovery of our presidential mandate, and cannot be thinking anything in that direction. Ogunlewe also said with the way you are running the party, no serious minded party will remain. He also said cannot see people who want to destroy the party and continue to stay in the party. What is your take on this? Ogunlewe has showed an unpardonable lack of courtesy and respect for the National leadership of our party. In an interview with the Daily Independent, published on 20th May 2019, he referred to our National Vice Chairman as ‘one Dr. Eddy Olafeso’, and declared our entire NWC incompetent. In the same interview, Ogunlewe, while accusing our National leaders of incompetence and negligence of their duties, remarked that they are ‘all abroad’ now and would only come around when there is money to share. Such disparaging remarks are unbecoming and not expected from a 75 years old man who claims to be a leader of the party. Ogunlewe has been publicly supporting and hailing one Segun Adewale a.k.a. Aeroland, who has been openly declared a non-member of our party by the National Working Committee, and who has been disparaging our leaders and terrorizing them with his thugs. Ogunlewe has repeatedly lied that he was present at a meeting where I, as State Chairman, canvassed support for the candidate of another party. This deliberate falsehood was obviously targeted at creating confusion and disaffection among the party members. A respected former State Chairman, Capt. (rtd) Tunji Shelle, who was present at the said meeting stated that Ogunlewe was nowhere near the venue of the meeting. He declared that Ogunlewe is a confused man who should go take a rest. However, it is obvious that the solution to Ogunlewe’s problem is beyond just taking a rest. He needs to see the doctor, and that is in his own interest. I would have offered to help but I am not a Psychiatrist. The departure of Ogunlewe from the PDP will surely mark the beginning of a new life, free of betrayal and treachery, for the party. Don’t you think his exit to APC will affect the fortunes of your party given his wealth of experience? His exit to the APC will affect the fortunes of our party positively because he has been one of the major problems of the party. If he wants to join APC, he should go but he should stop spreading lies about the leadership of our party. For him to say i instructed party members to vote for another political party in the last election is a total lie and mischievous. I have debunked this nonsense on about two occasions. There is no evidence to back up that claim. I spoke at the open meeting we had where Jimi Agbaje made the allegation. He said he has evidence and I asked him to show me the evidence but up till now, he has not provided any evidence. Our members were angry because of the attitude of our governorship candidate. They were disappointed in him and didn’t want to vote for him. They even came to me and during an open meeting, they demanded that we seek an alternative candidate but I appealed to them to forgive him for the sake of the party. For a person like Ogunlewe to be spreading unfounded and baseless rumours shows the kind of person to him. Based on his conduct, we have never regarded him as an asset to our party but a liability. It has always been said that he is a mole in the PDP; he has been working for APC for a long time. We have evidence that he has been collecting money from APC leaders even during our own elections to work against us. We have concrete evidence on this. So, if he is joining the APC, it is good riddance and a positive development to our party. Going forward, what are your plans to reposition Lagos PDP ahead of the 2013 elections? Like I have always said, what we need in PDP is to instill discipline and flush out bad eggs from the party. The era of ‘Might is Right’ where gun totting, knife-brandishing, cudgel wielding thugs are mobilised to terrorise and intimidate innocent law abiding citizens must end now. The bane of the PDP in Lagos has been indiscipline and the Laissez Faire attitude of the State leadership in dealing decisively with the criminal acts of some members. That also must change. Henceforth, any acts of criminality, thuggery or violence shall no longer be tolerated, and strict disciplinary actions shall be taken against all offenders. That is why we are reorganising the party now. We will ensure that the party is supreme and takes control. . We will also stop the influence of outsiders in the party. Lagos state PDP must be in control of Lagos state, not people outside who do not even know what is happening in the party. We need, and must have, a new PDP in Lagos State.