Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A 28- year- old suspected cultist, Divine Enu who was once convicted for offences bordering on robbery has again been nabbed by the Lagos State Police Command for an alleged unlawful association. Enu was paraded by Zubairu Muazu the Lagos State Commissioner of Police ,CP, at the Commands headquarter, Ikeja alongside other cult members. The suspect told Daily Independent that he made a mistake to draw a tattoo sign of Eiye confraternity on his body. He said now that he is no longer a cultist he is still being witch hunted wherever he goes with the tattoo sign because people still see him as a cultist. “I regret drawing tattoo on my body, I drew it when I joined the cult group. I was a member of Eiye confraternity for one year. I have not killed anybody. “I am being accused wrongly and arrested because I have tattoo on my body. The greatest mistake I made was drawing tattoo on my body, I did it out of foolishness, that is my greatest mistake and now I find it difficult to remove it and being tagged a cultist. Yes I joined them but I had left the group since. Please I am no longer a cultist.” He pleaded. “A friend lured me into cultism at Orege, Ajegunle where I lived and I was initiated at Orege Primary School. “I never drank human blood during initiation but I was given an alcoholic drink amidst other rites that was performed. He explained. The CP said the suspect who hails from Cross-River was arrested by operatives of the police Command’s Anti-Cultism unit headed by Chief Superintendent of Police, CSP, Uduak Udom following a targeted intelligence driven Operation carried out by the unit which lasted for four weeks, between April 20, May 19. The suspect was among the seventeen cultists arrested at different hideouts in Lagos during the operation. Narrating his ordeal, the suspect, Enu further denied the allegations. He said he was caught in his area, Orege in Ajegunle, I have not committed any offence. “It is true that I was in jail over a robbery case but I was implicated by my friend who was a cultist.