Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Unemployment is a major challenge facing Nigeria, Africa and even the world at large. It has rendered so many young people helpless and hopeless. Pope Francis describes it as the worst form of material poverty: “…there is no worse material poverty; I am keen to stress, than the poverty which prevents people from earning their bread and deprives them of the dignity of work.” That is exactly what unemployment does! An unemployed person is not only poor materially, but also dead economically. Unemployed person has little or nothing to contribute as long as economic development is concerned. In his famous work William Henry Beverdge describes unemployment as a headache without cause: “Unemployment is like a headache or a high temperature — unpleasant and exhausting but not carrying in itself any explanation of its cause.” Unemployment is not just unpleasant it is also a frustrating experience. It is frustrating to see others going to work whereas one who may be healthy and possibly with the best certificate has nowhere to work. Most of our young graduates are not employed. They have no job and no means of livelihood. That is one of the reasons why most of our youths are trooping out of the country looking for greener pasture elsewhere. The number of young Nigerians that have perished on their way to Libya and European countries is unimaginable. Few of those who made it are being deported back to the country. Unemployment is a major cause of insecurity and insurgencies in the country. An idle mind is the devil’s workshop. Idleness itself is the product of unemployment. A good number of young men and women have joined occult, bad gang. Most of them are readily available as thugs and other anti-social menace. Most of them even lost their lives during the just concluded election where they are trying to carry ballot boxes. The five thousand monthly stipends that is given to the poor does not in any way solve the problem of unemployment. The bible insisted that a Labourer deserves his wages and not the other way round. The government is a charity organisation. What we need from the government is a sustainable programme, a programme that can stand the taste of time. Job creation does not just solve the problem of unemployment it also contribute to economic and national development. Unemployment is a major cause of poverty, recession and other forms of hardship in the land. World Bank Report states that three out of four people in developing countries live in rural areas and earn as less as $2 a day. Here in Nigeria where some state government are still finding it difficult to embrace the new minimum wage of N30,000. Whereas the exchange rate of a dollar is N35; it follows therefore that most of our civil servants earn less than a dollar a day. If those that are employed are living in less than a dollar a day, you can imagine what those that are not employed are earning in a day. The influence of capitalism is a major cause of unemployment. Most people, including our law makers, are yet to know that the major problem we are facing in our country as long as unemployment is concerned is as a result of capitalism. Capitalism is an economic system where capital or money is the ultimate value. Profit is the essence of capitalism. In a capitalist system the owners of the means of production usually reduce the workforce in order to make more profits. A job that would have be done by twenty people can be reduced to 5 people. The rest fifteen are either sacked or retrenched. That was exactly what happened when Nigeria embraced privatisation. So, many people lost their jobs. Whereas the few people that are employed have no breathing space.  No wonder people like Michael Kalechi declare, “Unemployment is an integral part of the normal capitalist system.” Hence, one cannot separate unemployment from capitalism. Both are two inseparable realities. The more we embrace capitalism the more our children will remain unemployed. The retrenchment that is going on in the banking and finance industries and other places of work is a major cause of unemployment. Calvin Coollidge declares, “When more and more people are thrown out of work, unemployment results.” Most people are no longer employed instead they are offered contract jobs. The moment the contract period is over the person is back to square one. He or she has to start afresh looking for job. Lack of space is another cause of unemployment. We have so many graduates who have no job, whereas the space available for job is not just limited but occupied. The elderly ones are not ready to retire. They keep falsifying their age in order to retain their jobs. That is why in a family you often find old parents who are busy stressing themselves working whereas their children who are old enough to work are busy doing nothing at home. The youths will remain unemployed unless their old parents are ready to retire as at when due. No one occupies an occupied space! The number of job that are available is far much lesser than the number of graduates the country is producing annually. Job creation has remained a mirage. Most of the industries and even refineries are not working. The restoration of these industries and refineries would have gone a long way in creating more jobs for the unemployed youths but unfortunately, Nigeria still prefer to refine their crude oil outside the country. Imagine how many young people will be gainfully employed if a refinery is working. His holiness, Pope Francis, sees job creation as the ultimate goal as long as economic growth is concerned. It is also the solution to the problem of unemployment. The Pope declares, “It must be clear that the true objective to reach is not ‘an income for all,’ but ‘a job for all.” Job creation is therefore the best and only way to put an end to the problem of unemployment. Instead of giving people fish, it is always better to teach them how to fish. Unemployment gives room to idleness. St. Paul frowns at all forms of idleness. In this second letter to the Thessalonians he wrote, “Now we command you, beloved, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to keep away from believers who are living in idleness and not according to the tradition that they received from us. For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us; we were not idle when we were with you,  and we did not eat anyone’s bread without paying for it; but with toil and labor we worked night and day, so that we might not burden any of you. This was not because we do not have that right, but in order to give you an example to imitate.  For even when we were with you, we gave you this command: Anyone unwilling to work should not eat. For we hear that some of you are living in idleness, mere busybodies, not doing any work.  Now such persons we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living.” Unemployment is not an excuse for anyone to remain idle.  There are so many things one can do to help himself or herself. The Psalmist declares, “By the labour of your hands you shall eat” (Psalm 128:2). Hence, there is no food for a lazy man! If the government fails to solve the problem of unemployment through job creation, the youths should not give up. They should find a way to help themselves through Agriculture and skill acquisition. After all, heaven help those who help themselves!