A company, Ugolab production Nigerian Limited located in, Kano State has appealed to the State’s Commissioner of Police ,CP, Ibrahim Wakili and the Inspector- General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu to revisit the issue of claims by the police that cartons of tramadol were discovered in the company. The company has dissociated itself from the allegation, saying that what were found in the company were not cartons of tramadol drugs but declofenac. The Kano State police Command had in May last year claimed that its operatives recovered 303 cartons of prohibited drug, tramadol, in the company. CP Wakili Mohammed had while briefing newsmen at the Police Command Headquarters in Bompai, said the seizure, followed a tip-off, “prompting a police special squad to rush to the scene and impound the 303 cartons of the hard drugs at No. 157 Miller Road, Bompai in Nassarawa LGA.” The Police Commissioner disclosed that during the raid, the police burst a syndicate at a drug factory even as he indicted Ugolab Manufacturing Company located along Bompai, Kano as the owners of the said illicit drug. But in a swift reaction, the management of Ugolab Production Nigerian Limited has refuted the claim by the Police saying that what was recovered was Diclofenac and not tramadol. Production Process Manager of the Ugolab pharmaceutical company, Mr. Peter Eguabor, who spoke with Journalists in Lagos, said that the police did not come to the company on a tip-off as claimed by the police : “ What happened was that there was a robbery incident at the company’s warehouse at about 3:53am on that fateful day .The robbers made away with four cartons of Diclofenac Sodium and Diphenhydramine HCL among others. The company invited the police. We called the control room and the police came. “Trouble started when on arrival at the scene of the crime, the police officer who led the team opened a carton of Diclofenac and alleged that it was tramadol .They police took three cartons away .Then around 11am, the General Manager and the Quality Assurance manager went to give a statement and took with them a carton of the medicine, making four cartons. The police later came back around 2pm to collect the remaining 352 cartons of the drug”