Lagos – The Lagos State Police Command has arrested six suspects for allegedly dealing in an alleged poisonous cow skins popularly known as Ponmo. The suspects were arrested following a tip off from a credible source to the police that a group of people were distributing the poisonous products around Igando area of the state. Bala Elkana, Deputy Superintendent of Police,DSP, and the state’s Police Public Relations Officer  told the Daily Independent yesterday that the six suspects arrested are : Adelowo Yinka,50, of No. 1 Ifelodun street Agric road Egan the truck driver, Olawumi Onabanjo,40, of No.3 Olunshabiko street Itere Ogun state, Omowumi Wasiu, 43-years of New site muwo Badagry, Adeshokan Taiwo, 43 of no fixed address,  Iyabo oluwa,38, of Ifelodun street Igegun Ikotun and Taye Kazeem,40-years of No. 11 disu street street off ijagemon road Ijegun Ikotun. According to Elkana, the suspects were arrested at about 5.00am on May 4, 2019 in a warehouse at No. 9 College road, Igando where a truck load of the cow skins ‘Ponmo were heaped. He said a team of Police Officers led by the Divisional Police Officer, DPO, Igando, on receiving the information mobilised his men to the scene. The image maker said “On getting to the scene, the huge pillage and pyramid of poisonous ponmo and the chemicals used in the preservation of the Cow skins were recovered. One TATA Truck with Registration number AKD-375-XB which was used in conveying the goods was impounded. “Officials of Lagos State Ministry of Health were contacted and after due examination, the cow skins were confirmed to be poisonous and not for human consumption.” He explained. The Commissioner of Police Lagos State Command, CP Zubairu Muazu, while commenting on the incident  assured Lagosians that the Police Command was determined to continually protect lives and property of the people as well as preservation of Public Health and Safety as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The CP further added that investigations are ongoing to ascertain the source and destinations of those poisonous food items while assuring that the suspects will be charged to court at its conclusion.