Come Wednesday May 29, 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari will begin his second term having been declared winner of this year’s presidential election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). As he gets ready for another inauguration, having ruled the country in the last four years, the question: What should he focus on in his second term as a democratically elected President? Let Buhari End Insurgency, Poverty – NCP Scribe Chief Ubachukwu Nwawueze Onyeama, Secretary, National Conscience Party (NCP), Amakohia Akwakuma ward, Owerri North LGA, Imo State: “The agenda is very simple. Let the president end insurgency and poverty in the land. Let him strengthen our security network and ensure that Boko Haram becomes a thing of the past. “Hunger and starvation have made life meaningless for the masses. There is no job for the youths, hence kidnapping, armed robbery and cyber crime have become the order of the day.  The president should roll out programmes for intensive and extensive agriculture. Interested farmers should be encouraged to provide more food for the people to eat. This will check smuggling of contraband food items such as foreign rice into the country. He Should Tackle Nigeria’s Problems – Womal Leader Mrs. Chinwe Florence Isiaku, Woman Leader, Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA), Obowo LGA, Imo State: “The president has tried so far, but insecurity is a minus to his administration. The youths see kidnapping as the quickest means to make money, while others resort to 419 businesses because they have no means of livelihood. Our naira has continued to depreciate and our roads have collapsed and are now death traps. His war against indiscipline is no longer working unlike when he was a military Head of State. Basic necessities of life, such as power supply, potable water, housing for all, are not there. So, I expect the president to give prominence to these nagging problems in his second term. He Needs Cabinet Of Young People – APC Chief Mr. Igboeli Arinze, Zonal Publicity Secretary, All Progressive Congress (APC), Anambra Central, added: “President Muhammadu Buhari has done creditably well, in terms of infrastructural development, agriculture, the economy, the war against corruption and security are all going well.” However, despite the achievements, Igboeli said he would want Buhari to double his efforts in education, healthcare and transportation. He also said he would like to see cabinet peopled by young men and women. He said: “I would like to see a younger cabinet, young men and women in cabinet and other appointments outside the cabinet. I want to remind President Buhari of his promise to us at a forum with young people, where he promised us that we would have a more youth inclusive appointment. I would like to see technocrats in power too”. Buhari Should Run All-Inclusive Govt – Islamic Scholar Munir Salaudeen, Mina-based Islamic scholar added: “I would want to see second term of Buhari to be broader, more open to criticisms, more civil and above all, more inclusive in terms of respecting the Federal Character in appointments to ensure that every segment or region in Nigeria is given due recognition of than his first term. The Federal Government has been more decisive in the fight against corruption, but I want a situation where it should not be as if a particular section of this country or religion is being stereotyped or branded ‘most corrupt’. “Nigerians are dying every day due to insecurity. Any government that fails to provide security for its citizenry does not worth to be in power. So, there should be more focus on securing Nigerians. On infrastructure, the government has tried, but we need more efforts so that poor Nigerians who cannot afford travelling abroad for medical attention can have something better to fall back on, even if not exactly what is obtainable abroad. I want Buhari to be of more action and less of words in delivering his campaign promises. He Should Pursue Peace And Unity – Politician Junaid Idris, a grassroots politician, said: “Without a genuine and sustainable peace programme in place, the next four years might see the country witnessing crises of great magnitude. President Buhari must immediately commence the building of unity and peace among all stakeholders, especially at the grassroots. We are in a very tense atmosphere and the slightest spark will ignite flames capable of consuming the nation. “President Buhari has not been forthcoming with the truth on the issue of peace, security and unity of the people following what Nigerians have been subjected to in the past few months. We must be able to look Mr. President straight in the eye and tell him the truth, otherwise, he may think all is well with Nigeria and Nigerians.” He said Buhari needs reliable hands as aides and not persons who selfish people. ‘Buhari Should Focus On Security, Employment’ Dr. Christopher Ohuegbere, Benin-based architect and town planner, said: “What Buhari should focus on security and employment. It is only through mass employment that the boys who are terrorising the country can be engaged. “The Federal Government should throw the door open for more recruitment into the Military, Police, Civil Defence, Immigration, Prisons and Road Safety Corps, and then give approval for State Police. With that, adequate security will be guaranteed for other things to follow like the establishment of large and small scale industries and agriculture that will also engage more youths across the country. “Buhari should also focus attention on power because we are talking of establishment of industries and without steady power supply, they can work. Government should see how to assist people with soft loans, not Marketmoni. The Federal and the state governments should map out a system to encourage any person interested in business. “I don’t believe in sharing money to the youth as social welfare package. The government should encourage hard work and discourage laziness to avoid bloated population. Instead of giving money to people who are not working, the government should introduce subsidised feeding in all tertiary institutions so that in few years’ time many of the institutions will be encouraged to go into large-scale farming to feed their students. “If compulsory feeding is introduced higher institutions and well subsidised by the Federal and state governments, whereby every student will not pay more than N300 a day, that is, N100 per meal, great percentage of employment will be created. “Any item that can be produced locally, such as palm oil and vegetable oil, toilet soap and detergents should not be imported. Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand have flooded the Nigerian market with vegetable oil produced from Palm oil know as (Olean) thereby sending those produced in Nigeria to warehouses. These countries exported these products to Togo, Republic of Benin, Niger and Chad where they are smuggled into the Nigeria market. “Buhari should also work on the porous border to check smuggling. The government should from May 29 commence action. There should not be any dull moment as soon as the ministers are sworn in, especially with the present security situation, particularly in the Northern part of the country” He Should Review Youth Employment, Development Policies  – Cleric Abdul Azeez Abdufattah, an Islamic cleric, urged Buhari to review his policies on youth empowerment and development as he prepares to commence Second Term in office. He also advised the  Federal Government to initiate policies that would curb population explosion in the country, describing  the situation as worrisome. He said available statistics revealed that the country’s population is about 210 million, saying this may trigger societal evils except steps are taken to tame geometric population   upsurge. Abdufattah canvassed that more funds should be made available to the Directorates of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) for the programme to address unemployment crisis, even as he frowned at the paltry monthly stipends being given to corps members. AbdFattah opined such monies could be release in lump sum to each corps member at the end their service year to start a business of their choice, adding that the multi dimensional security like banditry and insurgency in the North would continue if birth control  mechanisms were not initiated. He said: “There must be birth control in the northern part of the country, because the misguided members of the Boko Haram group in Borno, Adamawa and bandits in Zamfara and other parts of the North are recruiting everyday. “The North has the highest number of out of school children. The almajiri culture encourages children to beg around when Allah decreed that we must take care of our children. Though, Islam allows you to have many children, but it didn’t say we should have numbers we can’t cater for.”