Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Comrade Moruf Sadiq Olajide is the Osun state Director- General, Oranmiyan socio-cultural political organization. In this interview with Gbenga Faturoti, he spoke on the import of the group to socio-political and economic development of Osun and its future plans for the residents. Excerpts: Tell us the significance of Oranmiyan to Yoruba cultural renaissance? Arguably, Yoruba history has not produced a more superior personality with better credentials, therefore looking for another “super-being” like Oranmiyan may amount to looking for a pin in a haystack. Despite this, modern day Yoruba nation is capable of producing quality selfless, fearless, dedicated and committed personalities who, with adequate collaboration, can ensure a successful rebirth of Yoruba culture. Significant to achieving this is imbibing some of Oranmiyan’s qualities and attributes. What is the significance of Oranmiyan deity to your organization? Oranmiyan was a notable and outstanding figure in Yoruba land. Although, he was the youngest son of Oduduwa, the progenitor of Yoruba, Oranmiyan was a man of physical power and mighty conqueror who never lost any war throughout his life time. He founded Oyo and installed his son, Ajaka, as the first Alaafin. He was also the first Oba of Benin and installed his son, Eweka, in his place before he returned to Ile- Ife to occupy the throne of his father as the fourth Ooni of Ife till he joined his ancestors. Till date, he remained the only king who ruled three major towns of significance; Benin, Oyo Alaafin and Ile-Ife. Oranmiyan Worldwide is a sociocultural political organisation founded in 2005 to promote the rich cultural heritage of the Yorubas and the political ideology of our mentor and leader , Ogbeni Abdulrauf Adesoji Aregbesola, who is the symbol of Oranmiyan in the contemporary time What import is the historical links of Oranmiyan in terms of pursuit of regional integration in South West? Oranmiyan intervention in Benin and Oyo was primarily for re-organization of the kingdoms so that peace, progress, development and prosperity would ensue in Yoruba land. These are primary features of Regional Integration in South-West. Why did you make Oranmiyan your brand? He was unusually brilliant, strong, rugged and dogged throughout his lifetime. How can Oranmiyan brand be a bridge organization in this country? Oranmiyan Worldwide is made up of cultured people with brilliant ideas and virtuous characteristics that can help move this country forward. Partnering with the government will further help in building more responsible leaders towards achieving greater heights in Nig eria. What impact do you think your organization can make to ensure there is rapid development in terms of advice to the government in power? Ideas are what required with the fervour to implement them. Gover nment only needs to identify people with capacities, intensify on Aregbesola social protection programmes, maintain infrastructures on ground and possibly build new ones. These, amongst others, are what will translate to rapid development. Oranmiyan is prepared to partner with the government on these and I know that there are various groups who are ready to do same .