Powered by RubiQube Ad Network An estimated 650 million people in the world will still be left without access to electricity in 2030 if there is no conscious effort to sustain it. This was contained in a new report produced by the International Energy Agency (IEA) the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD), the World Bank and the World Health Organization (WHO). The report said nine out of 10 of them will be living in sub-Saharan Africa. It added that notable progress has been made on energy access in recent years, with the number of people living without electricity dropping to roughly 840 million from one billion in 2016 and 1.2 billion in 2010. According to the report, India, Bangladesh, Kenya and Myanmar are among countries that made the most progress since 2010. It said that great efforts have been made to deploy renewable energy technology for electricity generation and to improve energy efficiency across the world. ‘’Nonetheless, access to clean cooking solutions and the use of renewable energy in heat generation and transport are still lagging far behind the goals. Maintaining and extending the pace of progress in all regions and sectors will require stronger political commitment, long-term energy planning, increased private financing and adequate policy and fiscal incentives to spur faster deployment of new technologies,” it said. The report identifies priorities for action and best practices that have proven successful in helping policymakers and development partners understand what is needed to overcome challenges. It said following a decade of steady progress, the global electrification rate reached 89 percent and 153 million people gained access to electricity each year. “However, the biggest challenge remains in the most remote areas globally and in sub-Saharan Africa where 573 million people still live in the dark. To connect the poorest and hardest to reach households, off-grid solutions, including solar lighting, solar home systems, and increasingly mini grids, will be crucial. Globally, at least 34 million people in 2017 gained access to basic electricity services through off-grid technologies,” it added. The report also reinforces the importance of reliability and affordability for sustainable energy access.