Lagos – Super Falcons head coach, Thomas Dennerby, released the list of 27 players for the FIFA Women’s World Cup with eight home-based players on the list. The remaining 19 are foreign based. The tournament will kick off 07 June in France and ends 07 July. Nigeria are one of the 24 teams taking part in the tournament and she have been drawn in group A alongside Norway, South Korea and host France. Of these eight home-based, four are goalkeepers with one expected to be dropped, while the remaining home-based are a defender, two midfielders and a forward player. The four invited goalkeepers are Tochukwu Oluehi (Rivers Angels); Alaba Jonathan (Bayelsa Queens); Chiamaka Nnadozie (Rivers Angels) and Christy Ohiaeriaku (Confluence Queens). The only home-based defender in the list is Chidinma Okeke (FC Robo), while the duo of Amarachi Okoronkwo (Nasarawa Amazons) and Evelyn Nwabuoku (Rivers Angels) are the invited midfielders. The last but not the least home-based is Alice Ogebe of Rivers Angels. However, top of the foreign-based invitees is Asisat Oshoala, who plays for FC Barcelona of Spain and defender Onome Ebi. There is also midfielder Ngozi Okobi and power forward Desire Oparanozie. Other invited for the last phase of the team camping are defenders Josephine Chukwunonye, Osinachi Ohale and Ngozi Ebere, midfielders Rita Chikwelu and Halimatu Ayinde and forwards Francisca Ordega, who all played key roles in the Super Falcons’ ninth continental triumph in Ghana late last year, are also included. Dennerby has also picked Uchenna Kanu, who has shown tremendous firepower at the ongoing WAFU Women’s Cup in Abidjan with eight goals in two matches. Nigeria’s final list of 23 players for the 8th FIFA Women’s World Cup finals will emerge from this group of 27, with four players to be cut towards the end of the two-week camping in Austria. Meanwhile, Falcons will play Mali in their last group game of the ongoing WAFU tournament today to determine who top the group. Nigeria, who qualified for the semis on Saturday following their 15-0 spanking of Niger had earlier defeated Burkina Faso 5-1 in their group opening game.