Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and a former governorship aspirant in 2007 has assured the people of Delta State to expect the best from Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa in his second term. Onuesoke who gave the assurance at Asaba Airport while responding to questions from newsmen on the performance of Delta State government said although Okowa had performed excellently well in the past four years, the people of Delta state should expect greater performance from him in second term. “I want to assure our people and Deltans to expect more dividends of democracy from our workaholic governor, Okowa in his second term. In the first tenure, he came in during the economic recession yet he was able to achieve a lot for Deltans. He was able to take the state to where we are today. So I know he is going to do more this time around,” Onuesoke stated. He noted that Okowa’s development strides and empowerment disposition in his first term are but a litmus test, stressing that Deltans will surely get ten times of his past performance with his re-emergence. He mainatained that Okowa remain a hero, considering the fact that his achievements cut across the three senatorial districts of the State and beyond. The PDP Chieftain pointed out that the governor’s astute style of leadership coupled with his prudent management of resources has placed the state in an enviable position, adding that he has delivered the dividends of democracy not only through infrastructural development to the masses, but also through health-care delivery by way of free medical care to Deltans, quality education, construction of good road network and provision of security among others. Onuesoke disclosed that in preparation to launch his second term development stride, Okowa signed six bills into law, adding that one of the bills which have now become law is the Warri/Uvwie and Environs Special Area Development Agency bill. “With this Bill, Warri and his environs will see rapid development and growth for the betterment of the people,” he explained. Onuesoke advised the people of Delta State to cooperate with Okowa so that they will all benefit from his second term’s dividends of democracy.