Lagos – Since his appointment in November 2015 as the Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Barrister Solomon Dalung, according to many sports enthusiasts, has failed to articulate a policy direction for the ministry, but rather busy raising one controversy after the other in key sports federations with damages that can take years to repair. As the coordinating minister in a country where most of the football clubs and indeed sports associations are funded by state governments, it was expected that Dalung would have been exploring how to harness efforts toward optimizing the contributions of government and their agencies. Last week’s alleged misappropriation of $150,000 Athletic Federation of Nigeria (AFN), grant, with the likely and imminent threat of ban by the IAAF, may have brought to the fore non commitment of some officials of this administration to the corruption war relentlessly being fought by President Muhammadu Buhari. The IAAF had on May 17, 2017, in error, paid the sum of $150,000 as against $15,000 to the AFN account, but rather than refund the excess $135,000, the AFN and Sports Ministry officials allegedly appropriated the money. However, the IAAF in a letter on Tuesday, May 14, 2019 addressed to the AFN and signed by Jee Isram, Senior Manager, Governance, Members and International relations, reminded the AFN of the need to pay up the money within two weeks (Tuesday, May 27, 2019) or Nigeria will face “appropriate sanctions.” The letter also emphasised that during the Asaba 2018 African Athletics Championships, Dalung had assured the IAAF that the money would be paid in a meeting with the IAAF President, Sebastian Coe. In one of the correspondences between the IAAF and the AFN on the matter,  Dalung promised that the Sports Ministry being the supervising ministry, will return 50 percent of the sum to the IAAF which he never did, prompting last week’s ultimatum, to the shame of the country. Dan Ngerem, former President of the AFN described the threat of the IAAF as shameful and appalling. Ngerem further described the case as a national calamity and disgrace. “This is shameful and appalling. A dent on the dignity of 180 million Nigerians.  It is our collective destinies that have been impinged upon. Now just imagine the kind of reception we as Nigerians will get when we go out to international sports. “This is a country where the President vowed to fight corruption, and a minister in his cabinet is in the centre of this scandalous conduct? “This is a calamity and I urge President Muhammad Buhari to investigate the matter and bring those involved to book to serve as a deterrent to others. “This is a national embarrassment of great proportion. What is $150,000 for crying out loud? “Besides, what’s the business of the sports ministry with the funds? Is this not interference in the federation? he asked. A former board member of the AFN, Jide Josiah, while reacting on the fraus allegation which he described as unfortunate, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to extend his anti-corruption crusade into the Sports Ministry, especially the sporting federations. According to Josiah, should the president do so, he would uncover mind-boggling dirty deals because 25% of corruption in the Nigeria occurs in sports. He requested that the probe should extend to the time of Dr. Amos Adamu as Director General of the Sports Ministry, describing the secretaries of the various sporting federations as “pathological thieves and pen robbers”. “This is just a tip of the iceberg when you consider the corruption going on in sports. It’s not an overstatement saying that 25 per cent of corruption in the country takes place in sports. Sports Ministry is a cesspool of corruption. “The president must start his probe from the time of Amos Adamu at the Sports Ministry. He will uncover the kind of nonsense he has not seen before. He should also probe all the sporting federations. The secretaries are pathological thieves, pen robbers. They are adept at shortchanging athletes and coaches of their allowances. According to him, “When you ask a cat to guard a roasted meat, what do you get? This is the situation in our sports and I am not surprised that we are witnessing this despicable act again. When you don’t allow people with honour and integrity to have access into sporting administration, this is what you get.” Patience Itanyi, former leading heptathlon athlete, said she would support the ban by the world athletics ruling body in order to enable the country, put its athletics in proper shape. “If a ban from IAAF will help us get our house in order so be it. The people don’t care about the athletes and the implications. It’s time things change for the best. “The athletes were being owed allowances for several months and the officials felt comfortable sharing the money. It’s a shame. There is so much going on with this federation,” said Itanyi. It was further learnt that on Wednesday, May 15, 2019, that the House of Representatives queried the alleged “disappearance” of the grant since 2017. The lawmakers passed a resolution in Abuja, summoning Dalung; top officials of the AFN and the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, to explain the development. A member from Bayelsa State,  Diri Douye, who brought the matter to the attention of the House, informed members that immediately IAAF discovered the error,  they  asked the AFN to return the excess payment. Douye said, “The money now seems to have disappeared into thin air. Some board members of the AFN are calling for an emergency congress to look into the scandal and have faulted the Sports Minister, who was said to have set up a committee to probe the circumstances surrounding the missing money.” Douye added that there were fears that the money might have been paid into the private pockets of some AFN officials sometime last year when the sports minister dissolved the boards of various sports federations.” The House expressed concern that in spite of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) policy, funds meant for public agencies could be received and spent without trace. The motion noted further, “The House is concerned that not only is the image of the country being seriously tarnished by the seeming failure of the AFN to refund the excess payment at the instance of the IAAF, but also Nigeria runs the risk of being banned from international competitions.” A former board member of the AFN, who pleaded for anonymity, has called for a decisive action to save the country from the mess. “FG should summon the outgoing sports minister, Hauwa Kulu Akinyele and former AFN secretary Amaechi Akawu to explain to Nigerians what happened to the money. “For clarity, the IAAF paid $150,000 dollars instead of $15,000 which is the annual grant to all member Federations. Rather than return the excess, the sports ministry was contacted and the money entered into thin air,” said our source. Speaking further, he said, AFN officials were left untouched in the last re-posting  conducted by sports ministry in order to cover up, after the said fund was allegedly shared. It is thus on record that it is during the tenure of the Dalung as sports minister that sports federations and other departments under his ministry have parallel leaderships. Some analysts said at the weekend that it is not surprising that football has been the most hit by the minister’s pretentious interventions in sports federations’ management. Specifically, they singled out his contributions in the Pinnick-Giwa contest of the leadership of the NFF, alleging that, at best, he further stoked the crisis. In his pretense of seeking a resolution of the crisis, they further allege, a committee led by a former NFF President, Ibrahim Galadima was instituted to mediate but finding its recommendation not in tandem with his set objective, Dalung kept the report on the shelves to pursue his agenda of foisting Christopher Giwa on the NFF Board. Since then, many committees have been set up, but, whose findings are yet to be implemented. Some sports analysts also criticize Dalung, for seizing every opportunity no matter how remote to pillory football administration. According to them, the latest issue on the IAAF’s money should serve as an eye opener for president Buhari for the new cabinet. However, they were unanimous in their submissions that it is indeed a huge tragedy that Dalung, who had the singular honour of being the longest serving minister, would rather leave the ministry with more problems.