LAGOS – Pastor Okechukwu Anorue, the president of Imo State Towns Development Association Lagos (ISTDAL), has called on Chief Emeka Ihedioha, the governor-elect of Imo State, to carry Imo State people along irrespective of whether they are resident in the state or not. Speaking with in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT at the weekend, he said that there are professionals among Imo people in the Diaspora, adding they are capable contributing to the development of the state and “there is need to encourage to come back and contribute to the building of Ala Imo.” He said the state had lost ground in the recent past and there was need to look far afield for the people who would serve as commissioners and aides to the governor-elect to make Imo proud among states in the Southeast in terms of good governance, road network and development. The president of ISTDAL called on the governor-elect to avoid the pitfalls that marred the administration his predecessor, adding that Ihedioha should choose a special assistant among the indigenes of the state in Lagos, as his special assistant, adding that the individual should be a person, who has a wide knowledge of the political terrain and who will convey the feelings of the people to him. Speaking on the activities the association, Anorue said, “it has been empowering indigent students by giving them scholarships and empowering the needy in our midst without the help of government. We call on government to give subventions to the town union associations to help in their operations because these associations do much in terms of contributing to the development of the state.” Other states in the East like Ebonyin give financial aid to their town union associations. He also urged the governor-elect identify with the people by attending their functions. Speaking on the type of people Ihedioha should appoint as commissioners, he said that the governor-elect should appoint technocrats as commissioners and aides, adding that they should be people of integrity. Anorue also called on the governor-elect to prganise a security summit where security issues in the state would be discussed.