Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – The scheduled hearing of the N53 million defamation suit instituted by Innocent Idibia popularly known a Tuface Idibia, against Augustine Ahmedu also known as Blackface before a Lagos State High Court, Ikeja was on Thursday stalled due to abdominal surgery that the respondent counsel underwent. Tuface alongside his manager and factional chairman of Copyright Society of Nigeria(COSON), Efe Omorogbe had filed a suit against as Blackface before Justice Josephine Oyefeso. At the resume of the proceedings yesterday when the matter was called, counsel to the defence team was not available in court. The claimant counsel, Mr. Opeyemi Owolabi told the court that the business of the day was hearing of the notice of preliminary objection, adding that the presence or absence of the defendant has no bearing since the defence did not file any response to the application before the court. The presiding judge, Justice Oyefeso however informed the claimant counsel that the defence had written to court attributing his absence to an ailment that led to abdominal surgery of the respondent. Counsel to the claimant averred that the motion has been pending since 17 April, 2019, and that the defence counsel had three months to do the needful and that his absence should not have any bearing on the matter since there are other lawyers in his chambers. “I shall be asking for cost of N100,000”, he said. Justice Oyefeso subsequently adjourned the matter till October 2, 2019 to hear the motion on notice. It would be recalled that Innocent Idibia and Efe Omoregbe are seeking a declaration that the statement published on the Twitter platform of the defendant on the 24th day of January 2016 is defamatory to the first and second claimants: a declaration that the statement published on the Twitter platform of the defendant is injurious to the reputation and business of the first and second defendants; declaration that the defamatory statements made incited and caused to be published by the defendant on the 31 of January on 36.Ng.com is defamatory of the claimant’s person, character, office and profession. “They are also seeking further declaration that the statement was made in an interview incited and caused to be published on Premium Times online on the 23 day of April 2017 is defamatory of the claimants; a declaration that the statement made by the defendant over video published by Pulseng on YouTube on the 6th day of November 2017 slandered the person, character, credibility and calling, trade and profession of the claimants.”