LAGOS – In a few days time, the administration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode will come to an end in Lagos State and with benefit of hindsight, observers are of the view that the Governor came, saw and overcame judging by his unprecedented scorecard in all sectors and sections of the State, especially in terms of massive infrastructural renewal that positively transformed the landscape and novel policies and programmes that changed the lives of many for good. On May 29, 2015, like a captain already certain of the routes to navigate to get to the destination, Governor Ambode took over mantle of leadership and commenced sailing the ship of Lagos State albeit on a shaky note which was not unusual with any expedition with a bigger picture in mind. Shaky Start To Governance The Governor was just about settling in for business of governance when the corollary of the rocky start began to be felt in major sectors especially security and traffic management. Naturally, tempers flared and people asked questions to the point of raising doubt about the ability of the Governor to step into the “big shoes” left by his predecessor, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola, now Minister of Power, Works and Housing. In the face of the initial turbulence, Governor Ambode kept calm and remained focused on the big picture and soon, the story changed and people who castigated him initially started showering accolades on him for sterling performance in office. The Governor, who later explained the reason for the early hurly-burly experienced by his administration, said any organization with success in mind must first think through its policies, plan stoutly and then act by brilliantly executing the well-rounded programmes. True to him, the process of thinking and planning the programs for the people brought about the initial drawback but today the story of Governor Ambode’s Lagos is a potpourri of positively impactful infrastructural renewal as well as focused and dynamic leadership in all sectors and sections of the State. To ascertain that he is a public financial expert extraordinaire, Governor Ambode came up with checks and balances for revenue inflow and also introduced the Treasury Single Account which in turn blocked revenue leakages and loopholes. The development ensured that there were funds to carter for government activities, while he immediately followed same with N11billion approval to offset arrears owed since 2010, not only for Lagos State Government mainstream retirees but also retirees in Local Governments and Parastatal organizations. As we speak, the government has done a lot in that regard in terms of taking care of retirees and of course the staff that are still in active service. Tackling Insecurity Headlong In response to the public outcry over the increase in spate of crime, Governor Ambode rebranded the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the Nigerian Police, and in an unprecedented move, he donated equipment worth N4.765billion to the State Police Command. This was done in September of 2015 and the items include 100 4-Door Salon Cars, 55 Ford Ranger Pick-Ups, 10 Toyota Land Cruiser Pick-Ups, 15 BMW Power Bikes, 100 Power Bikes, Isuzu Trucks, three Helicopters, two Gun Boats, 15 Armoured Personnel Carriers, Revolving Lights, Siren and Public-Address System, Vehicular Radio Communicators, Security Gadgets including Bullet Proof Vests, Drones, Helmets, Handcuffs, Uniforms, Kits and Improved Insurance and Death Benefit Schemes for officers. The Governor, in coming up with the policy framework of his administration, had hinged it on security, job creation and infrastructural renewal. According to him, when there is security of lives and property, more businesses will spring up in the State and such will facilitate job creation, while the taxes derived from the jobs would be judiciously utilized to provide amenities for the people, thereby making life comfortable and easier for them. Flowing from that, the Governor donated 48 Patrol Vans, 385 Walkie Talkies, 11 Base and Repeater Stations, 1,150 Uniforms, 570 Handcuffs, 1,150 Belts, Berets and boots to boost the operation of the Neighborhood Watchers to keep all the communities in Lagos safe. It must, however, be noted that the Neighborhood Watchers have been rebranded and transformed to Neighborhood Safety Corps Officers with 171 Vehicles fitted with communication gadgets, 377 Motorcycles, 4000 Bicycles, Metal Detectors, 7000 members of staff, among others to improve security in all communities in the State. Landmark Transportation Reforms As part of the transport reforms in the State, the Governor in another unprecedented move, commissioned the Mile 12-Ikorodu Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Extension Project and injected 434 new air-conditioned and comfortable BRT Buses into the transport scheme, while as part of the integrated transportation system aimed at ensuring intermodal transportation of rail, water and land, Governor Ambode re-launched the Blue Line Rail Project which upon completion would ease connectivity in the State as over 500, 000 passengers would be conveyed daily between Marina and Okokomaiko. The project is to be followed by the second phase which is the Red Line Rail Project from Alagbado to Lagos Island. In terms of easing traffic, several laybys and modern segregated bus parks have been constructed across the State in strategic areas including Ikeja, Oworonshoki, Lekki-Epe expressway, Ogudu, Alapere, among others, while in a move to find a lasting solution to the perennial traffic gridlock along Ikorodu Road, Governor Ambode on November 9, 2017 commissioned multiple Layby and Slip Road in Alapere. On the same day, the Governor also launched the Intelligence Transport System (ITS), the e-ticketing for commuters using the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), the Ojota BRT Depot and the new complex for the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority known as LAMATA Place. Road infrastructure is perhaps the biggest beneficiary of the impactful administration of Governor Ambode as no part of the State was left behind in the last four years. Speaking during a ministerial press conference to mark the third anniversary of Governor Ambode’s administration, Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Engr Adebowale Akinsanya said between 2015 and 2018, the State Government completed about 500 significant projects which have, in turn, contributed to make life easier for residents and positively changed the landscape of the State, while several others are ongoing. From Ikorodu to Lagos-Abeokuta expressway to Badagry, Epe, Ikeja and so on, one road project or other is either completed or ongoing simultaneously including 21 Lagos-Ogun boundary roads with two bridges in Alimosho, Pen Cinema Flyover, 114 and later 181 inner roads, Epe arterial roads, among others. Ensuring Sound Health For Lagosians In the health sector, the Governor registered his readiness for serious business in the sector as early as August in 2015 when he commissioned 20 Mobile Care Units Ambulances and 26 Transport Ambulances which were deployed across the various General Hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the State. He also approved the purchase of generators and x-ray machines for all General Hospitals in the State to ensure 24-hour power supply. Since then, it has been good tidings for the sector with major upgrade of facilities in all the General Hospitals and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs), with more springing up. As at 2018, a total of 61 PHCs had been either constructed or upgraded and furnished with medical equipment, as well as another 38 centres, while 1,000 health workers were recruited into the PHC system. The first state-owned helipad for medical emergency was also constructed within the premises of Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) as well as a new access road, while the biggest baby manufacturing factory (Maternity Hospital) in Nigeria – Institute of Maternal and Child Health, popularly called Ayinke House, in LASUTH was commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari on April 24, 2019. The 170-bed facility is equipped with five surgical theatres, 16- bed emergency care units with three organ support facilities, 30 bed special baby care unit, five neo-natal intensive care units, a fully equipped laboratory with support services, laboratories and a blood bank. Beyond the significance for the health sector, this institute is also a major contribution to the education sector, as it becomes a veritable platform for training of medical students in the State University to enhance their exposure and experience with the top-class medical equipment provided, while Ayinke House had also been completely digitalised with state-of-the-art medical equipment as well as information technology services supported by the State Ministry of Science and Technology. In the area of tertiary healthcare for instance, LASUTH also benefited from the supply of medical equipment by Governor Ambode’s administration, while renovation of some buildings in the hospital was carried including Old Admin Block, Surgical Emergency, Kitchen, Laundry Section, Chest Clinic, Engineering Workshop, Main Laboratory Tailoring, coupled with phased installation of CCTV cameras, among others. Food Security In area of food security and agriculture, Governor Ambode entered into a strategic partnership with Kebbi State which brought about the famous Lake Rice. The initiative forced down the price of rice in the market and the Governor is building on that to install a 32 metric tonnes per hour rice mill in Imota, a suburb of Ikorodu. It is projected that when operational from, the mill will ensure availability of rice in the market and will also facilitate the creation of about 200, 000 jobs across the Agric value chain, while it will also bring about cultivation of 32,000 hectares of farm land to produce rice paddy equating to an estimated 130million kg of processed rice per year (an equivalent of 2.6million 50kg bags of rice). Also, the scheme will be aligned with the Western Nigeria economic integration agenda whereby the States in the South West will supply the mill with rice paddy. In the same vein, work is progressing steadily at the new Mile 12 Regional Foodstuff Market in Imota which will accommodate the traders in Mile 12 and other markets in the area. The idea of the new market was conceived in response to the fact that the activities of traders in Mile 12 were already impacting negatively on traffic and the environment, hence the need for them to move to a more bigger, comfortable and convenient place. And in order to forestall the chaotic traffic situation in Mile 12 as a result of the market, government had begun moves to expand Ikorodu-Itoikin-Imota- Road up to Epe. In that axis too, work is already completed for operational take-off of the Timberville Sawmill in Agbowa/Ikosi Ejirin LCDA where plank traders in Okobaba Sawmill will be relocated to. The development will pave way for the regeneration of Okobaba. Giant Strides In Power Sector In the power sector, the government through the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, actually scored many firsts. First, the Governor unveiled the Light Up Lagos Project with three-pronged approach focusing on street lightening, community electrification and embedded power programme. Through the street lightening component of the scheme, major highways and streets are now well lit at night thereby enhancing security, improving aesthetics of the environment and bringing about major boost to the night economy of the State. On the community electrification component, many communities across the State have so far been connected to the national grid and many others had their either moribund or non-existent transformers replaced with new ones. On the embedded power programme, the Governor set up a Power Advisory Committee made up of key stakeholders from the public and private sector to drive the bid by the State Government to generate 3000 Megawatts of power and distribute it in the State to ensure power security. Also, a legislation to legalize the initiative has been passed by the State House of Assembly. Perhaps, one of the major achievements of the Governor is the novel initiative of N25billion Employment Trust Fund (ETF) set aside to provide minimal interest loan for members of the informal sector and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Three years after the Fund commenced operations on March 1, 2016, according to official report of the LSETF, over N6.5 billion had so far been disbursed to almost 10,000 beneficiaries, while over 3,500 unemployed Lagos residents have been provided with vocational training, with over 1,500 of the trainees placed in jobs. Also, the Fund has supported over 80 start-ups through its Lagos Innovates programme, while in total, LSETF’s interventions have helped create almost 90,000 jobs in the State since it started operations. Not done yet with the feats recorded, the LSETF recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding worth $10million with the United States African Development Fund (USADF) to support 15,000 youths in Lagos State within the next five years. On the other hand, the Oshodi Transport Interchange, in a nutshell, seeks to transform the axis into a world-class Central Business District (CBD) with business, travel and leisure activities conducted in a serene, secure, clean, orderly and hygienic environment, comparable with other transport terminals around the world including Stratford and Victoria Bus Station in the United Kingdom. By the project, all the 13 city and interstate bus parks in Oshodi have transformed into three multi-storey terminals, providing standard facilities including waiting area, loading bays, ticketing stands, drivers lounge, parking areas, rest rooms, accessible walkways and pedestrian sky-walks linking all the terminals. Commendations Galore Indeed, Governor Ambode’s midas touch and massive infrastructural renewal have not gone unnoticed, with endorsements and commendation from key Nigerians and stakeholders. Speaking while unveiling projects in Lagos recently, President Buhari said Governor Ambode deserved to be commended and appreciated for his good works in the State. The President, who spoke at Oshodi Transport Interchange, said: “Earlier this morning, I commissioned the Ayinke House of the Institute of Maternal and Child Health and also the Lagos Theatre in Oregun. “Your Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode has performed satisfactorily and we should all commend him for his contribution to the growth and development of Lagos State,” the President said. Others who have recently commended Governor Ambode for his infrastructural drive are the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) and the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL). Speaking while handing a Special Episcopal Award on behalf of the church to the Governor, Diocesan Bishop of Lagos, Rt Rev Humphrey Olumakaiye described Governor Ambode as an administrator with a patriotic drive who, through hard work and grace, rose to become distinguished among his peers. “We are very proud of you (Governor Ambode) for taking Lagos State much higher. You have proved beyond doubts that there is a great hope for a better Nigeria through your transformational touch in this State. “You are a man of courage who believes in possibilities against all odds; a man of focus and dignity. We are indeed very proud of you and we pray that God will grant your heart desires and take you to the next level of your political career. Today, we have decided to honour you in due recognition of your exceptional achievements as our Governor,” Olumakaiye said. On his part, the immediate past Bishop of the Diocese, Most Rev Adebola Ademowo congratulated Governor Ambode for his achievements in the State in the last four years, saying his name was already written in gold. “I want to congratulate our Governor for a very successful tenure. Your name has been written in gold and I do hope that Abuja will do something,” the respected clergyman said. CACOL’s Executive Chairman, Mr. Debo Adeniran, also hailed the Governor for executing no fewer than 423 impactful projects each year since 2015. “No part of the old five divisions could be said to have been left behind. Hence, Ikeja, Badagry, Ikorodu, Lagos Island and Epe divisions were reported to have benefited from the Ambode administration. “It is clear that based on the findings of our researchers during the proceedings of Lagos Open Parliament Five, Ambode made reasonable impact on the lives of residents for the period under review,” Adeniran said. According to Adeniran, CACOL’s reveal that 1,480 projects were executed by Governor Ambode’s administration. Also speaking recently, MURIC Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola, described Governor Ambode as a top performer whose achievements are indelible and can never be altered by anybody. Akintola, a renowned Islamic scholar, said aside the massive infrastructural drive, the Governor also prioritized welfare of Muslims and worked hard to enhance peaceful co-existence and harmonious relationship among religious groups in the State. “Quran Chapter 14 verse 7 says if you show appreciation, we would give you even much more. This is what we have come to do to you (Governor Ambode) today sir. We want to appreciate you; you are a performer and numero uno. We have seen action in Lagos State. “Other States are burning as we speak but Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, the Executive Governor of Lagos State, took the political landscape with astounding equanimity. When there should have been storm, you calm everything down. Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, your name is already written in letters of gold in the annals of Lagos history; it is indelible and nobody can ever erase it again,” Akintola said. He particularly commended Governor Ambode for setting up the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) in the State and going further to decentralize the activities of the Council in all the 20 Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), just as he commended the Governor for prompt payment of workers salary. According to him, “Salaries are owed for eight months, nine months, eleven months in several States of the federation in spite of all the financial facilities they got from the Federal Government; Lagos has not owed one month not even one week. Salaries are paid, workers are happy, there is industrial peace in Governor Ambode’s time. We appreciate the Governor and this will go down well in history.” Even as the Governor gets set to exit the stage for his successor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the feelers out there is that, though not a perfect man, he has successfully raised the bar of governance in the State with evident legacy projects which would forever remain indelible in the hearts of Lagosians.