Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Ryan Giggs says Daniel James made a point of making himself available for Wales while still mourning the death of his father Kavan. James pulled out of a Wales warm-up camp in Portugal after the sudden passing but Giggs has now named the Swansea winger in his squad for Euro 2020 qualifying matches against Hungary and Croatia. Manchester United are working on a deal to sign James, although Swansea are holding out for £20million, and Giggs said the 21-year-old is capable of ‘playing anywhere’. But the Wales manager said football is placed to the side at a time such as this, so he was pleased James felt able to still play. ‘It is terrible what happened, football comes second in those circumstances,’ Giggs said. ‘I spoke to Dan, he’s really keen to meet up and be involved in the games. We touch base end of this week, see how he feels. But he rang me and he wants to be involved.’ Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is understood to have spoken to Giggs about James. Giggs added: ‘You don’t need to speak to me to see the quality Dan has, especially since the turn of the year. The break down of Leeds transfer could have affected him but since then he’s really kicked on. ‘He was great in the last game for me. With the pace and temperament he has, he could play anywhere.’ Gareth Bale is in the squad and ‘looking sharp’ despite falling out of the Real Madrid team under Zinedine Zidane. But Aaron Ramsey is out with his hamstring injury. ‘As soon as he was diagnosed he was never going to make it,’ said Giggs. ‘It is for him to get ready for pre-season now. He’s had a big move. I hope he is ready. I expect him to start the season for Juventus.’ Tottenham also want to assess left-back Ben Davies’ recurring groin injury following Saturday’s Champions League final. Wales, who sit second in Group E with maximum points following their opening game, face Croatia on June 8 in Osijek, before travelling to Budapest to play Hungary three days later. Chelsea midfielder Ethan Ampadu missed the qualifying win against Slovakia in March but has overcome a back problem and is included. Giggs has handed first senior call-ups to young Manchester United midfielder Dylan Levitt and Barnsley pair Ben Williams and Kieffer Moore. Swansea defender Joe Rodon is the only other uncapped player selected.