Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Udu, one of the twenty four Kingdoms in Urhoboland, Delta State, was without a King for many centuries until the 20th century. The process of getting a King began precisely in 1970 when Udu community gave the then new Executive of the Udu Clan Union, the mandate to ensure Udu had her own King as a strategic item on the “Udu shopping list” and programme of action. The man at the helm of affairs of the Udu polity as president general of Udu Clan Union was the Late Chief W.T Odibo. Shortly after Odibo settled down to the task of implementing the agenda of change before the new Udu leaders, they decided to take a shot at the most gigantic of the three projects, and that was the Udu Bridge project. The project was completed and commissioned in 1976. Inspired by the success that attended the bridge project, Odibo and his executive set out to lay the foundation for the ascension of the Udu throne by a competent and qualified Udu son. At that time, the ruling houses were not in place. Chief Francis Vuowo Oputu from Orhuwhorun was the Otota (Traditional Prime Minister) of Udu Kingdom, and also the regent in the absence of the King. To create the ruling houses out of the then thirty two Udu communities, a number of factors were put into consideration. These included history, geography, contiguity, administrative convenience and the need to carry all the parts of Udu along. The historical aspect captured the question of the position of Udu children in terms of seniority. Udu leaders put all the factors into consideration and agreed that seven ruling houses be adopted for traditional administration of Udu Clan in order of mutually accepted seniority pattern as follows: Owhorhu, Okporua, Orhuwhorun, Adadja, Owhrode, Uloho and Ovwian. With the adoption of the seven ruling houses duly registered into the gazette of the then Bendel State in 1979, the door was literarily opened for intense struggles for ascension of the throne as Ovie of Udu Kingdom. However, history was made 25 years ago with the creation of the Udu monarchy and coronation of her first King though not without a tortuous search for a befitting personage to occupy the exalted office. It is on record that before the ascension of the first and incumbent monarch, there were some attempts to institute the monarchy by ambitions driven without support from the entire Udu power brokers and opinion leaders. One of such memorable attempts was by an elegant Udu lady of splendor and class, Christy Efeakpor, who leveraged on her closeness to the Oba of Benin and her exposure as a student of antiquities to undertake the business of getting a crown for Udu. She convinced the then Oba of Benin, Oba Akenzua 11 and was crowned Queen Lota, the Queen of Udu Kingdom. But this attempt was resisted by the larger Udu populace and she could not ascend the throne. While the efforts to get a King for Udu lasted, Chief Francis Vuowo Oputu who was the Otota of Udu Kingdom from 1962 till when he died in 1989 was the regent of the Kingdom. It was under his watch as regent and W.T Odibo as President General that the process of mapping out the seven ruling houses was enunciated. But to W.T Odibo and other Udu leaders like Late Justice T.K Dugbo, Chief G.N.O Sefia, Chief M.O. Oghenekaro, Late Barr P.O.K Munu and many others that the credit for the ascension of the first Udu monarch must be given. One other group that must be appreciated was the then Udu Youth leaders like Chief S.N Brigue, Chief Solomon Kpomah and others who took the bull by the horn to demand in clear unequivocal terms for the installation of the first Udu monarch not minding the myriads of court cases and the controversies over the choice of King at the time. Today, the monarchy has been well instituted and Udu traditional institution well established for the progress of the land. Ironically, the man who eventually won the crown did not fight to be King. His case was that of a man whose head was destined for the crown. His kernel was cracked by a benevolent spirit and his reign had been a peaceful one for 25 years. While men struggled and fought battles, with the Courts playing host to litigants over the choice of Udu first monarch, HRM Barr Emmanuel Bethel Otete Delekpe, who was eventually crowned as Owhorhu 1 was peacefully working with Udu leaders to move the area forward. He did not even indicate interest but was eventually invited by the leaders as a compromise choice which became consensus and ultimate winner of the coveted prize. And so 25 years on the throne, precisely on May 20, it behoved on the Udu people to roll out the drums in celebration of the great milestone. This is more so when Udu journey to achieving the monarchy was highlighted with intrigues, many years of permutation and scheming by those with vested interest as well as persistent struggles and dogged determination by the leaders. The Udu Conference which took place on Saturday May 25, 2019 at Otor-Udu, traditional and political headquarters of the Udu people, was part of activities lined up to celebrate this milestone. Despite the huge success recorded in establishing a monarchy in the community, one of the major of the challenges faced was the building of a befitting palace for the king. Since installation, the present monarch had lived in a palace built with his own money at Aladja. The Ovie, as tradition demands ought to be and live in a palace built for him at Otor-Udu, the ancestral headquarters of the Udu people. So, when Chief Poge Otirikpen (now Late) took over the leadership of Udu in 2002 after the death of Chief W.T Odibo, the palace project became a burden to his administration. On the appointment of Chief Andrew Orugbo as the honourable commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Orugbo mobilised Udu and the then U.D.U to raise fund for the palace project. The fund raising ceremony took place in 2006 with the likes of Chief Emmanuel Aguariavwodo, then Managing Director of NDDC in attendance. Sadly though, nothing was done at the palace ground to justify the huge fund raised by U.D.U. In his remarks during the ceremony, the Udu monarch did not hide his displeasure with the non-completion of his palace 25 years into his reign. The Monarch chided the Udu political leaders and technocrats who are doing well in life for not addressing the lack of a befitting palace since his ascension to the throne, calling on the people to wake up and complete the palace in no distant time so he could move in and preside the traditional affairs of the Udu people from the headquarters. Chairman of the occasion and Managing Director of O-Secul Nigeria Limited, Engr Mike Orugbo, also expressed disappointment with the leadership of Udu for lack of commitment to the palace project, urging all to rise to the occasion and complete the project without much delay. Engr Orugbo who also serves as Chairman of the palace building committee urged all those present to show commitment by contributing towards the palace project. The confidence in Engr. Mike Orugbo as a man of probity and unmitigated integrity, according to informed sources was already yielding results and attracting goodwill for the project. He and his committee have reached out to companies, individuals and government to ensure Udu gets a befitting palace for her monarch in no distant time. There are positive signals from the Delta State Government through DESOPADEC for the project to be attended to. A major highpoint of the event on Saturday which saw Udu sons and daughters from far and near converging on Otor-Udu was the adoption of a new Constitution for the Union of Udu Communities and inauguration of the new executive of the Union. The new constitution was adopted sequel to a motion moved by Elegbete Moses Odibo and seconded by Engr Alex Neyin, formerly of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC who is paternally from Udu. The constitution is designed to regulate affairs of the UUC and provide the legal plank for administration of Udu Kingdom. As Chief Steve Sokoh, the out-gone President General of UUC served out his two terms of four years, the occasion provided him with opportunity to hand over to a new executive led by Chief Godwin Notoma. In his address, the new President General revealed that the attention of his administration would be directed at completing the palace of the Ovie of Udu Kingdom, construction of the Udu Harbour Market and a Second Udu Bridge to reduce the pressure on the existing Bridge, built during the administration of Dr Osaigbovo Ogbemudia. To ensure Udu is effectively administered under his watch, Chief Godwin Notoma also announced devolution of power so that his two Vice Presidents would be in charge of specific duties. According to Him, the first Vice President, Mr Sunday Cousin would be in charge of supervising the activities of the Youth Body called Ighelle to achieve set goals, relate with companies operating in Udu on behalf of UUC, and liaise with the Local Government Council to ensure revenue accruing to the Union gets to it. He disclosed further that the second Vice President General, Evang. Andrew Dorkie would be in charge of liaising with Presidents of the Udu Communities, monitor their activities and intervene where disputes arise. Apart from the issues listed earlier, Chief Godwin Notoma also set before his administration the task of working with the relevant agencies of government to ensure proper policing of the area, stressing that the Udu was big enough for her own Area Command and that the Burutu Area Command, to which Udu was recently annexed was a grave error that must be corrected. He hinted of the creation of three more Police Divisions at Aladja, Emadadja and Otor-Udu to help tackle the insecurity in the area. The first duty of the Godwin Notoma-led administration was the inauguration of executive of the UPU Youth Wing, Udu Chapter led by Comrade Emmanuel Esiefarienrhe. The celebration was well attended by all seven ruling houses, friends and well-wishers from far and near with the Udu Council boss, Chief Onajite Brown in attendance. While the main anniversary celebration has been shifted to a later date to accommodate some issues being contemplated by the Monarch, the one day Annual Conference of the Udu people was a huge success the heavy downpour notwithstanding. As the people of Udu celebrate this milestone of 25 years of their monarch, one cannot help but join them to salute the Udu monarch in a special traditional way: Udu Ovo! Udu Ovo!! Udu Ovo!!! Wo Sun Tor o o o.