Lamar Odom almost died in 2015 when he had an overdose in a Nevada brothel, dailymail reports. And in his new book Darkness To Light – out on May 28 – the former NBA great revealed that the beauty was incredibly supportive to him as he fought for his life after 12 strokes and six heart attacks in Nevada. ‘Khloe never left my side,’ Odom shared. ‘She didn’t shower for days. Kim’s resiliency was incredible too. They put chairs together for her to sleep across at night.’ And the 34-year-old Good American designer knew just how to help him out. ‘I remember waking up and her showing me pictures of my mother,’ Odom said. His mother Cathy died of cancer when he was 12. ‘I was surprised on how quick she was to show her devotion to me,’ added the former athlete. ‘Her love for me must have been unconditional. That’s the only thing [I think] that gave her the strength to still love me at that time.’ The former LA Lakers player split from the reality star in 2014 after he persistently cheated on her and did cocaine during their seven year marriage. People provided a excerpt from the book. He also detailed exactly how his health broke down. ‘On Tuesday morning, I lay on the floor in my room at the Ranch, dying. My body was convulsing. The women who kept me company screamed and called 911. ‘I was taken to Sunrise Hospital in Las Vegas. There was an unholy concoction of cocaine, cognac and cannabis coursing through my veins. My heart stopped twice. Lamar almost died in 2015 in Nevada after 12 strokes and 6 hearts attacks ‘I had twelve seizures and six strokes. My lungs collapsed and my kidneys ruptured. I was on life support. Everyone I’d ever loved was looking at me through bleary eyes.’ ‘I decided to spend the weekend of Oct. 10, 2015, at the Love Ranch, a brothel in Las Vegas,’ Odom stated. ‘The number of days that blended into nights that I’ve spent with a beautiful woman and a mound of drugs … My getaway weekend would be no different. ‘Waking up [on Oct. 16], I was pulling the tubes out of my throat,’ he aded. ‘And I was trying to talk but I couldn’t get the words out. That was the scariest part. And not being able to walk. I’m a big athlete you know?’ He spent three months in the hospital recovering. Odom has been sober ever since and is healthy, but there are issues. ‘I have horrible memory loss,’ he said, ‘and my long-term memory was affected as well. Athletically, my balance is poor. I was shocked how weak my body became.’ Odom has also admitted in the book he is a ‘sex addict’ and has slept with as many as 2,000 women. ‘There were too many strippers to count. It wasn’t a big deal, but often I would pay them. I never thought less of them,’ he confesses. ‘I have been obsessed with sex for as long as I can remember, I am a sex addict. [I] ran out of porn to watch! That’s how you know when you are going a little overboard.’ When Khloe confronted him about his infidelities, he was ‘shocked and embarrassed.’ The athlete added, ‘I wanted to take it back, but you can’t. [I] wanted to hide it. But that sick sin was hard for me to hide … I had a problem.’ The 39-year-old also said that when he was first wed to the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star is was ‘bliss.’ Khloe moved on quickly from Lamar, dating The Game, French Montana and James Harden. She had child True with Tristan Thompson in April 2018. But in a parallel nightmare, Thompson also cheated on Khloe with multiple women. They split for good in February. ‘I wish I could have been more of a man,’ Odom said. ‘It still bothers me to this day. But regret is something we have to learn to live with.’ He also admits that he is completely estranged from the family. Khloe’s mother Kris Jenner treated him like a son and he was close to Kim, Kourtney and Kendall. Lamar also had a bond with Rob Kardashian, who lived with the couple for a while, as well as Jonathan Cheban. And one day he wishes he could get along with the clan. ‘I hope we can be friends,’ Odom confessed. ‘I miss the family. And I hope we can all be reacquainted one day.’ Lamar said his 2009 marriage to Khloe was wonderful. ‘For a while, being with her was bliss and I was the happiest I’ve ever been,’ Odom wrote. ‘We were one of the most famous couples in Hollywood and we made more money together than we had individually.’ But he had demons. ‘At the start of our marriage I was faithful to her,’ he writes. Then he cheated and he gave into his cocaine addiction. ‘I could not handle the lethal cocktail of the spotlight, addiction, a diminishing career and infidelity,’ he wrote. ‘Oh, did I mention the paranoia, anxiety, depression. … I couldn’t keep my d*** in my pants or the coke out of my nose. ‘Drug addicts are incredibly skilled at hiding their habit. I’d get defensive and Khloe would just drop it.’ His fall was huge. He went from Sixth Man player with the Los Angeles Lakers to playing with the Dallas Mavericks to being without a team and partying with prostitutes. In 2016 Khloe told Howard Stern that Odom was careful to cover up his bad habits: ‘Lamar was so great at making me feel like I was the only one and I’m this princess. I never speculated cheating,’ she said. ‘I know he loves me. I know we loved each other. I don’t question those feelings,’ she said. ‘I’ve always asked why. Lamar does…did struggle with substance abuse. I do believe he has a sex addiction, but I also don’t know if I believe in a sex addiction that much.’ When she was asked if she thinks she should have waited before marrying Larma, Khloe said no. ‘Yes, I’m sure people will say it was a mistake for me. I wouldn’t change what I did because it was also some of the best time of my life,’ she admitted. ‘I wouldn’t say it was a mistake. I needed that experience. The love I received was the love I needed at that time.’