AWKA – Aguata Local Government Area in Anambra State was created on 11th May 1976. The council area is one of the oldest and foremost local government areas in the state. It used to be a combination of three local government areas interwoven into one viz Orumba-North and South, which thereafter became the old Aguata. But the creation of new local councils saw the separation of Orumba-North and South from Aguata and thereafter became two separate council areas. How Aguata still prides herself as the largest local government area in Anambra state with over 14 independent towns with solid economic base and Ekwulobia as the capital territory. It was, therefore, against this historical background that the council headquarters of Aguata Local Government Area hosted the 43rd anniversary of the creation of the council area, which featured a display of her cultural heritageheld on 11th Ma, 2019. The event, which attracted sons and daughters of Aguata origin from far and near, saw various acrobatic displays of masquerades and other cultural groups from various towns performing to the admiration of the people. The social intercourse provided by the event was such that the people saw the significance of having such a platform to showcase their rich cultural heritage as well as recognise the efforts of those who have in no small measure deployed their resources and technical know-how to the development of humanity in general. It was an occasion to give honour to whom honour was due. Governor Willie Obiano, who attended the cultural day by proxy, said Aguata was one of the local governments that have enjoyed his magnanimity and benevolence. Obiano, who was represented on the occasion by the Chairman Anambra State Local Government Service Commission, Dr. Peter Egenti, described the cultural exhibition by Ndi-Aguata as second to none, stressing that they have done well to uphold the culture and tradition handed down to them by their forebears. The governor, therefore, extolled the efforts of the organizing committee in putting up such a programme and stressed that his administration would continue to support such laudable initiative. Chairman on the occasion and former chairman of Aguata Local Government Area, Chief Titus Anagbogu, underscored the essence of Aguata Day celebration, noting that the day was set aside to go down memory lane on the evolution of the council area as well as its vantage position in Anambra State. Anagbogu said, “We have appreciated the people who excelled in different places of endeavour from this local government and it was a very big achievement. Names of the awardees were generated not from this council. It was a joint effort between the council, the traditional institutions and the town unions. So their names were generated locally from their people. “The former council chairman who also functioned as the Chairman of the Local Organizing Committee for the 2019 Aguata Day Celebration said that Aguata local government area has enjoyed the presence of Governor Willie Obiano’s administration in the area. According to him, “Aguata is an APGA local government and the governor is doing perfectly well in the area. “ He further described Aguata as a local government council where the 14 communities practised egalitarianism in all issues of common interest. On the other hand, the state commissioner for Housing, Emeka Ezenwanne, who hails from Isuofia, described the event as a clarion call to all Anambra indigenes of Aguata extraction to come home and identify with the countryside as well as contribute their token to the development of the hinterlands.