Nigeria’s economy, no doubt, is seriously challenged due to lack of clear-cut policies by governments to walk its talk on the economy. In this report, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR, examine how, indeed government is determined to use agriculture to lessen the nation’s dependence on oil as well as bail out most Nigerians from economic quagmire. Nigeria And Its Sorry State Of Mono-Economy If there is anything the Federal Government should do to hasten the process of diversifying the economy from dependency on oil, it is no doubt that of re-positioning the agricultural sector of the economy as a viable alternative to crude oil in the country, so as to insulate the economy from the vagaries and shocks associated with volatility in crude oil prices and also provide buffers for the economy. The need to diversify the economy cannot be farfetched as experts in various sectors of the economy had for the umpteenth times, said that any government that runs a mono-economy is announcing its  economic  suicide, and in that sense, the only thing that will save Nigeria from her economic crunch now or in future is the diversification of her economy. The current government no doubt had in the same vein assured Nigerians that they need not to be helpless by the precarious state of the economy, but to persevere because the opportunity of diversification into the agricultural sector is the major ways out to a robust and better economy. Having seen the economic problem caused by the neglects of agriculture in Nigeria, which unarguably led to technical recession of the Nigerian economy that was just exited from some months ago, specifically in 2018, it becomes therefore imperative for Nigeria to be resolute in the implementation of the policies that are aimed at diversifying the country’s economy. Buhari’s ‘Experiment’ On Diversification Against the foregoing, the government had at various fora, since the Buhari administration came on board in 2015 been implementing policies that would facilitate a smooth diversification of the economy. For instance, key officials of the administration, including President Muhammadu Buhari, had indicated the intent of the government to diversify the economy from its near absolute dependence on the oil industry that has been suffering from myriad of problems over the years. But as it appears, this declaration of intention has not been matched with the necessary proactive actions until the economy plunged into recession. And no one is sure, apart from the various official assurances, how far Buhari administration would go in policy pursuit of the diversification of the economy. As it is, has been identified as the trump card of diversifying Nigeria’s economy as most experts that had at one time or the other proffer solutions to the challenge had pointed the way to agriculture. They were unanimous that agriculture being the mainstay of Nigeria’s economy before the discovery of crude oil can be the way out from Nigeria’s unstable economy. It would be recall in this context that from 1960 to 1969, the sector accounted for an average of 57 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and generated 64.5 per cent of export earnings. To sustain contributions of the agricultural sector to the GDP, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) amended the Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS) and encouraged more commercial banks to lend to farmers at a single digit interest rate but insisted that no loan under the scheme should exceed N2 billion. In his speech on Thursday, June 4, 2015, while declaring open the 55th annual general meeting of Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), President Muhammadu Buhari said that agriculture must be treated as a business in order to accelerate the development of Nigeria’s agricultural sector and ensure food security. Buhari, who was represented by the permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Mines and Solid Minerals, Alhaji Baba-Umar Farouk, also called for the active participation of the private sector towards developing agriculture in Nigeria. He challenged participants at the conference to come up with useful recommendations that will advance Nigeria’s agricultural sector at the end of their deliberations. The president said: “Nigeria has huge agricultural potential with over 84 million hectares of arable land of which only 40 per cent is currently cultivated. The country has some of the richest natural resources for agricultural production in the world. “The urgency of unlocking our agricultural potential is even more pertinent because Africa spends $35billion annually for food import. Agriculture must cease from being treated as development programme; agriculture must henceforth be treated as a business.” According to him, agricultural value chain allows the intervention of segments of the value chain such as production, processing, storage and marketing. The President said that Nigeria had the richest agriculture based mineral resources in Africa, adding that the country and Africa had no reason being a food-importing continent. “Our goal will be to pursue government supported private sector agriculture value chain to make agriculture more productive, efficient and competitive; to provide enough food for domestic supply and create jobs through agriculture value chain,” Buhari further disclosed. While a school of thought argued that economic diversification is the process of shifting an economy away from a single income source toward multiple sources from a growing range of sectors and markets, but traditionally, it has been applied as a strategy to encourage positive economic growth and development. What strengthened the assertion of this school of thought was the appointment of Chief Audu Ogbeh as Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources. Chief Ogbeh, highly regarded for his hand-on-practical management of agriculture as a result of his extensive private involvement in the sector over the years, admitted that much has been achieved under the previous Minister, Dr Akinwunmi Adesina, which he will seek to build upon, but not to discard or destroy them. But beyond this is the widespread support that agriculture seems to enjoy from other institutional stakeholders both at the national and international level based on the recognition of its long value chain that could employ millions of people in practical occupation as pointed out by Dr Kanayo Nwanze, the President of International Fund for Agricultural Development based in Rome, Italy, in an exclusive interview with this writer and others in January 2016. Palm Oil Import Conundrum A typical case in the importation of agricultural products into the country, and which has the capability of truncating all efforts geared towards the diversification of the nation’s economy is that  of palm oil importation. For instance, the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Godwin Emefiele in March, 2019, said that over five hundred million dollars was being spent annually on importation of palm oil. Mr. Emefiele, who made the disclosure at a stakeholders’ meeting on the Palm Oil Value Chain held in Abuja, bemoaned the fact that the country was still importing palm oil in spite sufficient arable land in the South-South and South-East regions of the country to farm it. He recalled that in the late 50’s and 60’s, Nigeria was not only the world’s leading producer of palm oil, but it was also the largest exporter of palm oil, accounting for close to 40 per cent of the global market share. He said  currently  Malaysia and Indonesia were the top producers of palm oil and Nigeria the fifth, after getting their seeds and learning how to cultivate oil palm from Nigeria. “This conversation is indeed important as it forms part of our overall strategy to reduce our reliance on crude oil imports, diversify the productive base of our economy, create jobs and conserve our foreign exchange. “Despite placing oil palm in the forex exclusion list, official figures indicate that importation of palm oil had declined by about 40 per cent from the peak of 506,000 Metric Tonnes (MTs) in 2014 to 302,000 MTs in 2017. “This indicates that Nigeria still expends close to 500 million dollars on oil palm importation annually and we are determined to change this narrative. “We intend to support improved production of palm oil to meet not only the domestic needs of the market, but to also increase our exports in order to improve our forex earnings,” he said. Paradigm Shift To this end, Mr Emefiele said all the state governors in South-South and South-East, Nigeria had agreed to provide at least 100,000 hectares each for large scale oil palm farming. He said with the help of the state governments, Nigeria could reach self-sufficiency in palm oil between 2022 and 2024 and ultimately overtake Thailand and Columbia to become the third largest producer over the next few years. “As part of our Anchor Borrowers Program (ABP) and Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS), the CBN will work with large corporate stakeholders and small holder farmers to ensure availability of quality seeds for this year’s planting season. “We will also ensure the availability of agro-chemicals in order to enable improved cultivation of palm oil. We will also work to encourage viable off taker agreements between farmers and large-scale palm producing companies. Loans will be granted through our ABP and CACS programs at no more than 9 per cent per annum to identified core borrowers,” he said. The CBN governor reiterated that the restrictions earlier placed on the importation of textiles and other ready-made clothing was for the good of the economy. He said in due course, the CBN would introduce polices to address challenges in the cocoa, cassava, beef/cattle ranching, dairy and fish sectors. ”Soon every region of our beloved country will feel the positive impact of our intervention in the agricultural sector. These efforts we hope will not only enable us to conserve our foreign exchange, but also create jobs on a mass scale.As these measures begin to bear fruits, we are very optimistic that our states will become more economically viable,” he said. Edo,Akwa Ibom   Example Besides, the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, said the state was currently cultivating about 70,000 hectares of land of oil palm. He also spoke on the need to revive the moribund Nigerian Institute For Oil Palm Research (NIFOR), in Benin to improve investment in research and production of quality oil palm seeds. “We should understand that for meaningful investment to come into the oil palm industry, we have to think of other incentives to encourage manufacturers to turn oil palm to other things. What I mean is that palm oil can be used to manufacture margarine, soaps, toothpaste and other things. “We must also think about how to create incentives for those who are currently in the business to explore all the uses of palm oil to create job opportunities for our people,” he said. Also, the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, spoke on the need to educate oil palm small holder farmers on the use of improved seedlings as a way to improve output. CBN’s Support For Agric Revolution Emefiele also in 2015 in Lagos at a workshop organised by CBN and the Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) on Innovative Agricultural Products, noted that the large import of food products include wheat, rice, flour, fish, tomato paste, textile and sugar. He added that for neglecting the agricultural sector, Nigeria’s profile in the importation of agricultural sector has increased over N630 billion, and he said that the sector provides 70 per cent of existing employment in the country, with 42 per cent contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), but lamented the high level importation of food products. Bemoaning the same challenge on the needless importation of agricultural products to the detriment of the pursuit of the diversification of the economy, the minister of transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi told journalists in 2016 during an inspection tour from Rigasa rail station in Kaduna to Idu Station that even as the world’s 7th largest population in the world at a base line of 170million, that agriculture is was exceptionally important element of Nigeria’s economy. He explained that the large import of food products include wheat, rice, flour, fish, tomato paste, eggs, textile and sugar. The Minister however, stressed that there was need to diversify the mono-cultural tendencies of the Nigerian economy by developing other sectors of the economy especially agriculture. “Major agricultural imports are wheat, rice and sugar. Most agricultural imports come from the US and the EU. The country’s main agricultural exports are cocoa beans, rubber, sesame seeds and cocoa butter. Key agricultural export destinations are the UK, the US, Canada, France and Germany” “We were known to be exporters of cocoa beans, gum Arabic, groundnuts, cotton, palm oil and many other agricultural commodities, but now, we import most of the agricultural commodities that we can produce because of the neglect of the sector. “About 30 per cent of live animals slaughtered in Nigeria are imported from neighboring countries. Like other subsectors, livestock industry development is constrained by low productive breeds, inadequate access to feeds and grazing lands, frequent farmer, pastoralist conflicts, lack of processing facilities and low value addition and low technical inputs in the management of the animals, including diseases.” Time  To Stop Deluge Of Palm Oil Importation Industry watchers said the country could increase its agricultural sector output to $227 billion by 2030, thus, raising the annual growth rate to 4.2 per cent. But achieving the feat would require a four-pronged approach   by boosting yields, shifting more production into high value crops, reducing post-harvest and distribution losses, and increasing scale production. They posited that the biggest opportunity in agriculture is improving crop yields, which accounts for 39 per cent of the upside potential. It is not an exaggeration to say that the motion moved by Senator Francis Alimikhena, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), from Edo State, in the upper legislative chamber in February 2018 on the importation of palm oil aptly threw an insight on the implication of importing agricultural products. He bemoaned  the fact that the huge sum of money spent on importation palm oil, despite the country comparative advantage in the production of palm oil with the availability of land and the manpower to become a formidable force in oil palm production. Buttressing his move, he cited a report that has it that Nigeria imported 450,000 tons of palm oil costing about N116.3b in year 2017 alone. He added that the continued importation of palm kernel and allied palm products is a threat to the federal government’s campaign for the diversification of the economy. Beyond the importation palm products, experts are unanimous in their position that the importation of agricultural product of any kind is capable of marring the aims and objectives that informed the initiation of policies on the diversification of the economy, agreeing that if not preempted it may likely frustrate the efforts of revamping the nation’s economy through the diversification initiative. Mr. Clement Oyemen, an economist, said the Federal Government should deploy every effort in ensuring that the importation of agricultural products is discouraged and for the diversification of the economy to be a success. He urged the Federal Government “to urgently place a ban on the importation of all agricultural products and inject needed funds through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture to aid the production all the crops that would be affected by the ban.” He added that “The government should ensure that it partners with the private sector, and embark on revolutionary transformation of the cultivation and processing of all crops grown in the country, and in the same vein, create allied industries through backward integration.”