LAGOS – Kingsley Fanwo, the Director-General, Media and Publicity to Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state on Wednesday said his principal is the only candidate that can win the November 2 governorship election for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Speaking on the letter written by some stakeholders to the APC national secretariat and the Presidency that the party will lose the state if it fielded Bello, Fanwo described them as former party members who have since left the party and even worked for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the just concluded general elections. According to him, having seen the landslide victory recorded by the APC in the state, the alleged stakeholders are jittery that Governor Bello will clinch the ticket and are doing everything they can to discredit him. In his words “Forget about those who wrote letters to the presidency that they are stakeholders and the governor should not be given the ticket. I don’t know what their definition of stakeholder is. Maybe their definition is someone who has abandoned the party after his wish didn’t come true. They did not participate in our congresses; they’ve not attended any APC meetings up to the congresses from the ward to the national convention, they did not participate”. “During the elections, because they have told the powers that be in Abuja that APC is going to lose Kogi state because of the governor, they came home to come and work for PDP. They held PDP meetings, they gave PDP money, they went to their polling units to go and support PDP but they lost their polling units”. “These are the people parading themselves as stakeholders; because they are people who are still carrying the names of APC but working for PDP. They know that this governor will win the governorship election when fielded so they are working hard to discredit him and PDP will be given an advantage”. “That is not going to happen because our leaders in Abuja are aware of what the governor has done. Our leaders in Abuja knew what the governor did to deliver in the general elections to APC and they know he will do the same come November 2”. “They know that the surest bet of APC is to field the APC leader in the state who has been carrying the party from 2015, who has been supporting and organizing the party from 2015 till now. If somebody could win the Presidential election in the state, won two out of three senatorial seats, won seven out of nine House of Reps seats and won all the 25 House of Assembly seats, then the party knows that this is the person to put forward in November 2” he said.