LAGOS – President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Mr. Amaju Pinnick has assured that his administration is not perturbed by any efforts by certain elements to distract it from its noble commitment to ensuring adequate preparation and participation of all National Teams in international competitions. Pinnick made this known on Friday morning during a Sunrise programme on Channels Television. His assurance comes on the heels of a similar statement on Wednesday by NFF General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, that the Federation is fully focused on the international championships and major matches of the several National Teams in the remaining part of the year, which are numerous. “We are not distracted at all. We have so many National Teams engaged in preparation or actual participation in major competitions presently, and cannot afford to lose focus. “Our commitment to ensure that our teams harness glory for the country from each and every match and competition has not waned in any way.” On Friday, the Nigeria U20 boys kick-started their participation in the 2019 FIFA U20 World Cup finals in Poland with their Group D opener against Qatar, with games against USA and Ukraine to come. The Senior Women National Team, Super Falcons, are presently in Austria undergoing a two –week residential camping before flying to France for the 8th FIFA Women’s World Cup finals, where they play Norway, Korea Republic and host nation France in the group phase. The Senior Men National Team, Super Eagles, will begin their camping programme for the 32nd Africa Cup of Nations (taking place in Egypt) in nine days’ time in Asaba, and have to play Burundi, Guinea and Madagascar in the group phase at the tournament taking place from June 21 to July 19. Similarly, the Home –based Senior Men Team (Eagles B), U23 National Team, U20 Women National Team, U17 Boys National Team and the Supersand Eagles have major championships to prosecute before the end of the year, just as the Super Eagles, U20 girls and U17 girls have World Cup qualifying games at hand. Meanwhile, Pinnick has described as ‘the real next level’ for Nigerian Football development, the passage by the Senate on Wednesday of the NFF Bill, which automatically repealed the long –standing NFA Act. He said that the NFF Bill’s passage is the biggest enabling environment for Nigerian Football to thrive provided by any Government over the decades, and applauded the President Muhammadu Buhari (PMB) administration for consolidating on its numerous and credible moves that have provided lifeblood and impetus for the Nigeria game. “The NFF remains forever grateful to the administration of PMB (GCFR) for the several praiseworthy moves and policies that have boosted the development of football administration and organization in Nigeria over the past four years. Indeed, we can never over-emphasize the President and his Government’s tremendous support for the present NFF to overcome its several challenges and forge ahead in taking Nigerian Football to new heights. “We want to greatly applaud the National Assembly for the passage of the NFF Bill. It is a major victory by, and legacy for, the present NFF administration. A lot of effort went into pushing the Bill, and we are very happy that it has finally been passed. “Indeed, the passage of the bill, and if assented to by Mr. President, will strengthen our resolve and provide framework to fast-track our objectives to make football an integral part of the Nigeria economy as is happening in some other countries across the globe.”