In this interview, Comrade Eric Oluwole, President, Yoruba Youth Council (YYC), speaks with MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, speaks on raging issues in Yorubaland, including its invasion by external aggressors and what his group would do to make the land free of fear of attacks. Excerpts: The Ooni of Ife and some prominent Yoruba Obas were recently stewed in controversy over the historical linkage of Yoruba and Igbo. What is your take on this? As the national leader of Yoruba Youth Council , I think time has come for the youths to protect the yoruba history. Different stories has been said about yoruba history and we dont know which one to believe. I strongly believe that our fathers are matured enough to redress their differences without rancor and bitterness, hence as youth we cannot involve ourselves in their argument, but we implore them to make peace and urgently tell us the true Yoruba history How do you think Yoruba monarch can forge oneness or unity among themselves? Let me first appreciate His Imperial Majesty, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja ii, Ooni of ife for the continuation of Late Oba Okunade legacy in terms of Yoruba unity. There is need for a national Yoruba Oba Convention for unity. Most of our Obas must leave any argument for now, and muster requisite courage that would ensure the unity and development of Yoruba land . The Olugbo of Ugbo,Oba Akinruntan recently crowned some Obas in Diaspora,in a circumstance that sparked criticism in some quarters. What is your concern about this development? Yorubas are highly sophisticated people and the elders have a way of resolving crises like this, hence I call on highly knowledgeable Yoruba elders to come with their wisdom to unite and resolve the lingering issues, like do any Oba apart from Ooni and Alaafin have the right to install any Oba outside their jurisdiction What is your take on calls in some quarters that the federal government should recognise Isese Day and declare it national holiday? Our country is a multicultural society, I strongly feel that this agitation based on each ethnic nationalities believe or tradition rather. We are all aware that Christian and Muslims religious are western culture. For example, it would be so appreciated if federal government can also declare Isese day as part of national holiday, because the equality needs to be done, not that some will say they have been sidelined . There are controversies between traditional worshipper and Christians that Esu and Satan is not the same. Could you share your thought on this? Truly Yoruba esu is a god of many parts, most significantly it’s a god that blesses one’s work.According to the believe of Yoruba, if you want to start a market, you have to appease esuodara for prosperity and so on. If you want wealth you are asked to appease esu, if you want position you are asked to appease esu and you will get what you want,so our esu is good and different from biblical Satan. Yoruba language is said to be going into extinction largely due to the influence of pop culture now. How best do you think we can preserve the language against the danger of extinction? Yoruba culture is going to extinction not due to pop culture, but due to parents and government policies.In short pop has really helped our language, due to export of our songs abroad, must songs today strongly worded in Yoruba.So let us encourage them more, while telling governments to put polices in place that will encourage the use of our local languages, just like what Lagos is doing. Your group recently issued a stern warning against kidnappers and herdsmen in Yoruba and called on stakeholders to be on guard. What informed this action? The leadership of Yoruba Youth Council (YYC); a pan-african social democratic body representing all Yoruba Youths at home and in Diaspora, saddled with the responsibility of protecting the overall interest of all Yoruba Youths and the Oodua nation at large, at an emergency Yoruba youths leadership caucus meeting summoned by the Yoruba youth leader, Comr. Eric Oluwole and attended by representatives of each member and State chairmen in response to scores of distress calls received and information from different part of the Yoruba land regarding the incessant kidnapping and striking of some Criminals parading themselves as Fulani herdsmen around our States. After a long deliberation which lasted for hours, we have been able to reach conclusion that we are fully aware that these criminals masquerading as herdsmen are being daily loaded in with trucks and vans into different part of our land. We are aware that many of these criminals are abating and hibernating under some few unscrupulous, self-centered individuals among the Yoruba leaders who because of their desperate desire for gains are betraying the interest of the land. We have resolved to do everything possible, using every resources at our disposal and which is within the confinement of the law to fight, defend and to resist the incessant strikings and kidnappings by these criminal forces.We are giving two weeks to the leadership of Afenifere and other Yoruba elders forum to as a matter of urgency summon an emergency meeting where they should put heads together and give their final end declaration position on this looming crisis, which if not properly and immediately addressed could lead to revolts from our angry Youths in every corner of Yoruba land We have a duty to defend ourselves against these external aggressors and we will not want our people to result to self help, hence we called on Government to do the needful, since their primary duty is to protect lives and properties. Our youths can be called to be at alert, but in terms of carry arms Did you also involve the Are Onakankafo of Yorubaland in this campaign and what roles will be play there? He is the head of Yoruba military forces, hence he as a traditional duty of securing Yoruba land, so all we did is a wake up call to Aare Onakankanfo and the Yoruba leaders. We also implored the Ooni of Ife, the Alaafin of Oyo, Aare Onakankanfo and other powerful Kings and leaders in Yoruba land should come together and agree on feasible line of actions which will go beyond words on papers, fishing out the bad heads and betrayals in the land whoever they may be and providing the necessary supports for us the Youths in resisting these desperate attempt by the Fulanis herdsmen to wipe out our generation and take over our land. We call on all the Southwest Governors and Governors elect and every concerned personalities in positions of authority, that neglecting the their personal political differences and interest which is obviously dividing the Yoruba nation beyond reasonable understanding, should come together and address this issue before it will galvanize to national crisis. Will your group likely resort to arm struggle to drive home your demand in case the campaign fails? ANSWER: Our people are helpless now and they might be forced to self help, we think won’t be too good, but will you now blame us if we desired to defend ourselves against well armed criminals. Time will tell. Tell us about your group, the successes, challenges and how you intend to tackle them. Yoruba Youth Council (YYC) is a well recognized and organized association. It has been in existence for years as mouthpiece for Yoruba youths both home and Diaspora. The names such as Late Oba Okunade Sijuwade, Late Dr. Frederick Fasehun, Late Maj.Gen Adeyinka Adebayo, Dr.Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosumu, Some Governors, are some of the initiators of YYC.