Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has decided against renewing contracts of chief selector Inzamam-ul-Haq and head coach Mickey Arthur post World Cup 2019. Both men’s contracts end in mid-July when the World Cup will conclude. The results of Pakistan in the mega event will not affect the decisions already taken in principle, a reliable source in the PCB was quoted as saying. Former Pakistan captain and opening batsman Aamer Sohail is being considered to replace Inzamam who was in charge for three years. “Sohail’s name is top among the list of short-listed contenders. PCB’s managing director, Wasim Khan will make the decision on new appointments for the position of the chief selector and head coach,” Scroll cited reports as quoting a reliable source in the PCB. Advertisement The 52-year-old Sohail, a former left-arm cricketer, had served as the chief selector between 2002-04. Moves by Inzamam, Arthur did not impress PCB top brass
According to the source, neither chairman of the board Ehsan Mani nor MD Wasim Khan who the former had brought in was happy with some of the decisions taken by Inzamam and Arthur. However, they stopped short of taking drastic steps since the World Cup was not far away. On the question of replacing the South African-born Arthur, it was not yet confirmed whether a foreigner will take up the reins or a local player will remain. It was even speculated that Inzamam himself could become the head coach of the Pakistan team after the World Cup. Pakistan has lost 10 of their last 11 ODIs while one was washed out. They lost the series-decider against South Africa and were drubbed 5-0 and 4-0 by Australia and England respectively. The decision to rest a number of key players for the Australia series had not gone down well with the fans and former cricketers. After the loss in England, Pakistan was forced to bring in old warhorses like Mohammad Amir and Wahab Riaz to spearhead the bowling attack. Pakistan even lost to Afghanistan by 3 wickets in the only warm-up game they played. Inzamam, a member of Pakistan’s World Cup-winning squad in 1992, is currently in England and will remain there till the side’s high-voltage clash with India at Old Trafford on June 16. The PCB source even said that he would have a say in the finalisation of the playing XI for all games now. Pakistan face the West Indies in their first game of the tournament at Trent Bridge on May 31.