ATANDA SEMIAT LAGOS – As Muslim faithful across the world observe the holy month of Ramadan, the Woman Leader of Sanwo-olu Campaign Organisation and President, Asiwaju for Life Strong Men and Women Mrs Ola Williams has condemned the recent killings in the country. Williams,who is also the leader of Sanwo-olu Babes, who expressed sadness in the development, calls for prayers that peace and love should flourish across the nation. The Woman Leader while lamenting the spate of insecurity in different parts of the country, said only true love towards one another could stop the killing and other security challenges being witnessed in the country. She urged all Muslim faithful to imbibe the spirit of love and care through giving, especially the less privileged. Williams, who distributed cooked food, water and fruits to over 2,000 less privileged in the Hausa community in Adeniyi Adele and Ebutte Meta areas of Lagos, called for support for the destitute. “This is part of my service to the community, especially to those who don’t have what to eat in this season of Ramadan,” she said. “The gesture is to meet the basic needs of the destitute and the less privileged in this Ramadan season, especially the blind and crippled who largely may not be able to undertake economic activities. Our thoughts goes to them. And we pray that peace should reign in our country. We don’t want more bloodshed and other criminal activities. Nigeria is God’s own country and we pray that God should expose those behind this evil act.” Williams further calls for prayer for the government of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC national leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, urging that all hands should be on deck to ensure peaceful inauguration ceremony on May 29. “Our leaders, President Muhammadu Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and our incoming governor of Lagos state, Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu, and others need our prayers to continue to move our country and state forward.” “Anybody or group of persons who want their downfall through sponsoring of killings will not know peace. God will frustrate their evil agenda and reward them according to their evil plans.” Speaking, some of the women who benefited from the food distribution expressed gratitude to Williams.