LAGOS – Bayelsa State was at a boiling point over the action of elected lawmakers in the state . But, Governor Seriake Dickson on Monday doused the tension, thereby restoring calm to the state, thereby ending what would have been a conflagration. Before Dickson’s statesmanlike action, a bill titled ‘Bayelsa Assembly Pension Bill’, which the state’s lawmakers had presented to him for assent, had pitched the legislators against the people, whose mandate they carry. The outrage over the bill was massive. Bayelsans felt betrayed by their representatives. They worried over the jet speed the bill was passed and warned Dickson not to assent to it. The civil society amplified the masses’ outcry and the media was awash with the people’s anger. The bill hurriedly passed last week Wednesday without a public hearing was sponsored by Hon. Peter Akpe, the House Leader. It attracted the stakeholders, including civil society organizations, who prepared for a showdown. The controversial bill approved N500, 000 post-service monthly pension for a speaker of the Assembly, while a Deputy Speaker would receive N200, 000 and a member N100, 000. Ironically, some stakeholders fingered Dickson as being behind the ill-fated bill, saying that through it, he had planned to settle some of his party members, including the current Speaker, Benson Konbewie, and Akpe, who lost out in the last election. It would be recalled that while Konbewie lost the House of Representatives seat to the All Progressives Congress (APC’s) Preye Oseke for the Southern Ijaw constituency, Akpe lost in the primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and therefore would not be returning to the House. Nengi James, chairman of the state Civil Liberty Organisation (CLO), said the bill was against the collective wish of the people. He described it as draconian, murderous and of no public interest. He said the bill “will be resisted, not only through public protests, but through intellectual discourse and other means possible.” The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) in an open letter to Dickson, had also urged him to reject the proposed life pension bill. It also urged the governor to use his office as the “trustee of the state’s resources and consistent with your constitutional oath of office, to prevail upon the House to immediately withdraw the self-serving bill.” Kolawole Oluwadare, SERAP’s Deputy Director, told Dickson: “Public officials have a legal commitment to discharge a public duty truthfully and faithfully. Should you assent to the bill as proposed, SERAP will institute legal proceedings to challenge the legality of the legislation and ensure full compliance with constitutional provisions and Nigeria’s international anti-corruption obligations. “The bill amounts to an incorrect and improper performance of public functions. It’s clearly an abuse of legislative functions by the lawmakers. Rather than sponsoring bills that would improve access of children in Bayelsa to quality education, the lawmakers are taking advantage of their entrusted public positions to propose a bill to collect large severance benefits.” SERAP maintained that the lawmakers were clearly the major beneficiaries under the proposed legislation. Therefore, by passing the life pension bill, SERAP said, Bayelsa State lawmakers had violated the constitutional and international prohibitions on conflicts of interest. It told Dickson: “The people of Bayelsa would expect you, as their governor, to use your entrusted public office to act in the public interest, including by rejecting the life pension bill and prevailing upon the House of Assembly to immediately drop the bill.” Also, the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) warned the House of Assembly against the proposed life pension and called on the legislature to drop the idea, vowing not to leave any stone unturned in its fight for good governance and accountability forthwith. TUC, in the statement signed by its President, Bobboi Kaigama, and Secretary General, Musa-Lawal Ozigi, described the passage of the bill as “the height of impunity, insult and a deliberate attempt to widen the scope of fraudulent activities by politicians in the state.” Barrister Alaowei Cleric, National President, Foundation For Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusaders (FOHURAC), condemned the bill, describing it as anti-people, anti-development and wasteful. Cleric, who spoke to Daily Independent, urged well-meaning Nigerians to condemn and reject the bill, saying it amounted to a flagrant violation and abuse of the fundamental human rights of the people of Bayelsa State. The activist said that already, his group had sent an a Save Our Soul (SOS) message calling for immediate action by all concerned authorities, bodies and agencies, both national and international, to join in rejecting the bill, which passage he described as an act of political fraud and abuse of power. Cleric said: “From Old Rivers State to present day Bayelsa State, Bayelsa has produced over 160 lawmakers. That is, between 1999 and 2019, Bayelsa has gotten about 135 lawmakers and over 20 lawmakers in Old Rivers State. “The bill states that a minimum of 100,000 will be paid to each lawmaker, either in Old Rivers or present day Bayelsa State. Therefore, 100,000 multiplied by 160 lawmakers equals 16 million on a monthly basis. “If we then add the monthly pension for the six Speakers (500,000 each) as well as the Deputy Speakers (200,000 each), it will amount to 20,200,000 on a monthly basis. “The Bill also featured packages for Bayelsans who became lawmakers and Speakers in old Rivers State. Among the Bayelsans who became Speakers in old Rivers State were Talford Ongolo (the present Chief of Staff to Governor Dickson) (SILGA Constituency 1), Tuesday Kemeagbeye (Ekeremor Constituency 2) and Claudius Enegesi (Ogbia Constituency 1) will all receive 500,000 each, thereby increasing the pension to approximately N22 million monthly. “Again, the likes of former Governor Timipre Sylva, Bernard Agai, Fyneman Wilson, and several others will also be entitled to the monthly pension as they were lawmakers of Bayelsa origin, who became legislators in old Rivers State, thereby increasing the pension fund to N25 million. “Arithmetically, N25 million multiplied by 12 months equals N300 million a year, as pension fund for lawmakers. If we then add the pension for Governors and Deputy Governors, it will amount to N1 billion of tax payers’ money. “From the above, it is clear that this bill is anti-people, anti-human, anti-development, anti-progress, wasteful, fraudulent, rights abuse, undemocratic and a flagrant abuse of political power. This bill is criminal in nature and character.” He lamented that the cumulative pension fund for a year to take care of the governors and the Assembly members is the budgetary allocations for three separate Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in the state, adding that in 20 years to come, this pension fund would have tripled in amount and figures. Cleric, in urging Bayelsa people to reject the bill, which he said was devious act by the state’s lawmakers, stressed: “The Pension Bill is ill-fated, a social vice, an act of depriving the ordinary people of their share of equitable distribution of scarce resources. This is anti-democratic and extreme human rights violation by exposing the height of inhumanity of man towards his fellow man.” Hon. Eldred Digimie Pogonyo, Speaker of Mobile Parliament of Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide, on his own, called on the Speaker and members of Bayelsa State House of Assembly to have a rethink on their proposed bill, describing the law as anti-people, which he said was geared towards serving the lawmakers’ myopic, parochial, inordinate, and selfish ambitions. Pogonyo, who spoke through a statement, said the bill was an affront on the psyche of the people for the legislators to contemplate on such draconian cum inhuman act against Bayelsans whom they rode on their back to position of affluence and authority to unilaterally apportion a chunk of the state’s treasury to themselves. On Monday, Dickson, as a listening governor, declined assent to the controversial bill. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the state’s Commissioner for Information, who announced the governor’s decision, said through a statement, that Dickson had conveyed his decision to decline assent to the bill in a letter to the Speaker of the state’s House of Assembly. He said the bill was inconsistent with Section 124 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), adding that the lawmakers lacked the powers to expand the categories of public servants who should be entitled to pension.