Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Aww!
The Internet went into complete meltdown yesterday (Tuesday 28th May), when James Corden confirmed the news we’ve all been waiting for… a Gavin & Stacey Christmas Special, written by himself and co-star Ruth Jones. Now, as excitement builds for the new episode, Larry Lamb, who played the role of Gavin’s dad, Mick Shipman between 2007-2010, appeared on This Morning where he confessed the new script made him cry. Speaking to hosts Ruth Langsford and Eamonn Holmes, 71-year-old Larry said, ‘It’s amazing what him [James] and Ruth have managed to do. I’ve finally read the script, it really got me, I read the first little sequence and just found myself crying. “It was like running into someone major in your life, you’re not bothered what they do, it was so poignant. I was immediately into the feel of the whole thing, it just brought me along. ‘It’s all about this melding of people from different elements of British society, the mindset of people who live in Barry island and mindset of people in Bury, England, that was the strength. That clever thing of bringing them together and mixing them all up.” Larry also revealed on the show just how James Corden delivered the news to him. Admitting James called him from Los Angeles, Larry said, “I was just going to make this phone call, nothing important, I forget what it was and then all of a sudden I get this phone call from a Los Angeles number. Then someone said ‘Hello, Larry, it’s James Corden.’ And I couldn’t believe it, I said ‘What do YOU want’ and on it went. We just had about 10 minutes on the phone.” He then added, “He [James] said ‘I just want to know if you’re available in the next little while, as it looks like we’re going to be doing a Christmas Special. It was quite extraordinary, the whole thing. It was quite Hollywood-esque getting this phone call from a Hollywood superstar over there in LaLa Land just to say we’re going to take a trip back down memory lane.” James, who currently presents The Late Late Show out in America, confirmed the exciting news yesterday morning (Tuesday 28th May), posting a snap of the script on Instagram. He wrote, ‘Ruth Jones and I have been keeping this secret for a while… We’re excited to share it with you. See you on Christmas Day @BBCOne #GavinandStacey’. Roll on Christmas Day is all we can say! If you’re a sucker for the Spice Girls and love a bit of One Direction, you need heat Radio in your life. We’re online at heatradio.com. You can still get us on the free app on your Android, iPhone or tablet. Tune in on Freeview channel 716 on the telly or get us on your smart speaker by asking it to “play heat radio.”