Powered by RubiQube Ad Network A female teacher ,Chizoba Ogbonna have been arrested by police operatives attached to the Inspector – General of Police Intelligence Response Team ( IRT) for allegedly staging her own kidnap and collecting ransom from her family in Abriba-Ohafia area of Abia State. The 36- year- old suspect and mother of three was arrested alongside two others simply identified as Anthony and Ezema, alleged to be accomplices in the fake kidnap. They were alleged to have assisted her in planning the kidnap but were arrested by the IRT team. Daily Independent learnt N500,000 was paid through Chizoba’s bank account as ransom, before the IRT operatives swooped on them. Police source said one of Chizoba’s relatives , alerted IGP Adamu Mohammed, about her abduction and the subsequent demand for N2 million ransom. The informant reported to Mohammed Adamu IGP that Chizoba’s kidnappers had threatened to kill her within hours if their demands were not met and Adamu swiftly deployed a crack team of operatives from the IRT, headed by DCP Abba Kyari, to track and apprehend the suspects. Police source said the operatives, who were armed with advance tracking devices, trailed Chizoba and her supposed kidnappers to an uncompleted building at Agborji Community in Abriba-Ohafia area of the State, with the intention of rescuing her and apprehending her kidnappers, but the operatives got the shock of their lives when they arrived the hideout where they met Chizoba having marathon sex with one of her supposed kidnappers without even noticing the presence of the security agencies and they were caught red handed. Our source said the operatives also discovered that her abduction was staged managed so as to extort money from her relatives. Following their arrest Chizoba has confessed that she wanted to use the money to elope with her boyfriend to Europe. However, Chizoba in her confession to the police denied staging her own kidnap, claiming that she was hypnotised by her boyfriend, Ezema. She said “I am a primary school teacher, I was formerly married and I had three children with my former husband. I met Ezema on Facebook and he told me he is a fashion designer and I told him that I have some jobs for him and from that point we started a relationship. “At one point in our relationship we discussed about traveling out of the country and he told me that he had once spent N300,000 for a visa which did not work out. So, on March 13 , I was on my way to visit my sister and a vehicle stopped in front of me where I saw six persons including a lady inside it. “The lady amongst them called me and when I responded she asked me to enter the vehicle. It was at that time that I lost consciousness and I later found myself in my boyfriend’s home. I later realised that my boyfriend took my phone and used it to call my sister. He started demanding for ransom and when my sister spoke with me, I had no option than to beg her to pay the ransom.”