Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Chief Bode George, former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that although the nation has just done 20 years of uninterrupted democracy, it does not seem as if any meaningful achievement has been made within the period. He thinks it will be necessary for a critical assessment of the history of Nigerian democracy from the days of Tafawa Balewa as Nigeria’s Prime Minister in the First Republic to the current Fourth Republic and see areas where necessary adjustments could be made. The politician during a press conference in Lagos remarked that until the various states were restructured into federating units, there would be no progressive democratic Nigeria. He said he was not speaking as a politician, that his speeches were devoid of partisan framework, stripped of political identity, removed from ethnical prejudice. Rather, he was speaking as a concerned elder patriot, who felt it important to look into the democratic process so far and see if there was any achievement, especially accessing history to know where the nation had missed it. He lamented that Nigeria should be celebrating her democracy, when things were not normal, but a period of ferment and tumult. He said that the democratic purity was dangerously distorted, bruised, disfigured, savaged, hurled to the brink of ruinous precipice. He stressed that the nation was without ethical leadership, honour, credible vision and lacking in purposeful articulation. According to him, the only option for the country was to have true federalism, where all the states would be restructured into federating units to give room for them to harness their resources and develop at their own pace. George opined that it would be important to learn from history when Nigeria had three regions, each of which did very well with the resources they had in terms of development. He maintained that it would no longer be proper to restructure on regional pattern as the country had moved far beyond that, but according to states. He said the nation was embattled, scourged and savaged by the selfishness of the collective elites, who according to him, should play the role of drivers. However, he said that the onus was on all Nigerians to build a greater country, insisting that the power at centre had remained too large to allow for growth and development of various groups and ethnic nationalities. George said it had become a sorry story for Nigerians that even beyond the harsh confines of ethnic divisions, beyond the savageries of partisan furor, Nigerians were yet confronted by the murderous furies of bandits and faceless herdsmen who continuously subject every inch of the nation to vast killing fields where none can claim a refuge of undisturbed safety and guaranteed protective cordon. The elder statesman stated the democracy day period should afford well-meaning Nigerians time to access the state of the nation with a view to finding a lasting solution to the insecurity situation in the country and other economic and socio-political challenges, pointing out that Nigeria must return to the path of fairness and enlightened equity. George said: “Both the rich and the poor are easy targets. The dividing lines are blurred, indistinguishable, flung upon the whims sand reckless inflictions of murderous bandits who negotiate with no one except when the price is right. Alas, we are now in conundrum. Our nation is frightened, thrown upon a suspended animation. Nothing seems bright and sunny anymore” “But there must be a better way. We must return to the path of fairness and enlightenment equity. We must return to the path of balanced ingredients of democratic purity where logical essence of checks and balances prevail among the tripod branches of the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary. Justice must prevail over partiality and unfairness. The enlightened society can only be established when everyone, regardless of tribe and tongue, is treated fairly in the Nigerian commonwealth,” he said. He said Nigerians must understand the history of the land to project into the future, stating that Nigeria independent started in 1960 to the problem in the Western Region in 1962, crisis continued when Chief Obafemi Awolowo was jailed in 1962. According to him, it continued like a cancer until it consumed the nation. According to him, there must be lessons to learn from the crisis to be able to appreciate the current situation. He stressed in 1960, when the British left Nigeria with three regions that the Premiers were very powerful, they managed the regions’ resources for the benefit of the people, which he said, was the real definition of democracy. He pointed out that the three major regions as at that time, in the North, there was majority and the North Central was the minority in those days. In the East, there was South-South as the minority tribe, and in the West, there were majority tribes and the minority and then the Mid-West was extracted from Western Region. He said that the Premier was in Ibadan and extended to all the regions and managed it very well and the impact was benefited from the super management by the premier, so also other regions. Taking a look at history, George maintained that by the definition, politics was the management of resources of the area for the benefit of the people. He stressed that the crisis in the Western Region would have been properly managed, but unfortunately Nzeogwu struck from the North. Ironsi came and became the government. He said the military was a special kind of organisation, and the kind of management style in the military could not be replicated anywhere because once an order was give, it must be keyed into from top to bottom. He said democracy must flow from bottom to the top, because the people were those who elected their leaders to manage their resources for their good. George said that when the military came in 1966 that the only thing that it understood was the hierarchical system, stating that the problems the nation in the first republic were issues of the various minorities in all the regions. He said that Nigeria missed it when the military came and diverted every resource to the centre and the centre became extremely too strong. He maintained that because the agitation of the minorities from the regions were high, General Gowon came in with the creation of 12 states to ease that tension of the First Republic, but the centre still remained strong and that problem, according to him, had not been resolved till today. He stated that in the military at that time that tribal sentiment was never a problem. The PDP helmsman stated that the creation of States, Local Government Areas (LGAs) had never been handled by civilian administration but military, with the attendant imbalances where some zones had more States while others had less, so also the LGAs. The concept accepted for the federation of Nigeria was not that all resources would have to go to Abuja. He pointed at the issue of Value Added Tax (VAT), where Lagos State produced 80 to 85 percent of the VAT, but when it would be distributed from the national basket, would get only about 11 percent, which was not justified and unless corrections were made to the ills, there would not be peace in the country. He said because there was no area or state that did not have natural resources that would be tapped for the benefit of the people, it was agreeable that everyone would not be the same, but the states would survive from their resources. Relying on the leadership capacity of the nation’s managers to x-ray what should be done to arrest the anomalies, he said it was injustice for the funding of the LGAs to come from Abuja, where Kano State would take 44 portions and only 20 portions would come to Lagos State. He maintained that the things that were causing the ripples in the country lied in all these injustices, which must be addressed and because people were blinded by positions, they had refused to talk about real issues. He said when the military handed over to civilians, instead of going back to true federalism, they continued with the military system of governance and that had been the major problems till date. On the solution to insurgency, he said it could be controlled if the proper things were done so that Nigeria would be looked up to by other African nations, harness its resources well, find jobs for the young people, some of them highly educated and would create jobs for themselves if the state failed to create one for them. He said the National Conference of 2014 came out with a brilliant solution, which no one had tried to address. He said that every item on the agenda was debated in the full session and at the end, everything was unanimously adopted. He said the restructuring issue was addressed and they all agreed that there should be a federated state of Nigeria. Every state should ensure that they use the resources of their land for the benefit of the people. George said it was unfortunate that Nigeria copied the American system of government, but failed to copy it fully. He stated that one man could not sit in Abuja and know what was going on in all the expansive areas of the country, stressing that it should resort to proper federalism so that the nation would return to its glory.