Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Arsenal and Chelsea will go into tonight’s Europa League Cup final with the above question on the lips of followers around the world, particularly the fans of both clubs. The stakes could hardly be higher for Arsenal in this final. A whole season of striving to qualify for next year’s Champions League has been reduced to one match, 2,500 miles away, against a side in the same London. Returning to Europe’s premier competition is Unai Emery’s primary objective, but winning tonight is so important for the club because of the marketability that comes with going to the Champions League. Granit Xhaka, the Gunners’ defender, highlighted this: “If you see the club, we have to be in the Champions League. We did not play there for two years and we have to be there next season. All the players, the fans, the club, we want to play against the best teams, and the best teams are in the Champions League.” While Arsenal will be searching for their first Europa League title, Chelsea will be looking to win the competition for the second time, after beating Benfica 2-1 in 2013. But Arsenal will be hungrier for this task because their Champions League hopes rest on a first Europa League trophy. Wednesday’s final will be the third time Chelsea and Arsenal have faced each other this season, with both sides enjoying a home win in the Premier League. Chelsea also got the better of Arsenal in the previous European meeting between the two sides, winning the 2003/04 Champions League quarter-final 3-2 on aggregate. Of the previous meetings between both sides, Arsenal still have the advantage in the fixtures, winning 77 times to Chelsea’s 63. For Chelsea, the Europa League final is a chance to end a decent season with a trophy, Maurizio Sarri’s first major honour as a manager, and also to add to their third-placed Premier League finish confirming a Champions League spot. Meanwhile, Arsenal had to work slightly harder for their place in the final, overcoming first-leg deficits against BATE Borisov and Rennes in the early knockout rounds. But they enjoyed big wins against Napoli and Valencia to secure their place in Baku. For them, a win today will be the difference between another year in the Europa League and a return to the Champions League. The difference between being able to target the big names and having to make do with stars happy to miss out on the Champions League for at least one season. Although the build up for the Europa League final should be about Chelsea and Arsenal fighting it out for a trophy, unfortunately other matters have dominated the news. The most controversial will obviously be the absence of Henrikh Mkhitaryan from Arsenal’s match-day squad – despite the winger having played the joint-most games for the Gunners in the Europa League. Due to political tensions between host country Azerbaijan, and Mkhitaryan’s native Armenia, the 30-year-old has made the decision to miss the final due to fears over his safety. According to team news, Petr Cech is likely to be missing in his farewell game with Leno returning for his five Europa League appearance. The other big decision could come in who plays behind Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Alexandre Lacazette, but Alex Iwobi is likely to get the nod ahead of Mesut Ozil, with the coming off the bench for impact late on.