YENAGOA – Former President Goodluck Jonathan on Wednesday cautioned those jostling to succeed Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, not to throw the state into chaos ahead of the November 16 governorship election. He said that the forthcoming state governorship poll must not be characterised by violence and bloodshed but should be peaceful and credible in the interest of the people. Jonathan stated this while making his remarks at a leadership workshop/conference on “Credible Governorship Election 2019 and Good Governance in Bayelsa State-Building Consensus Through the Ijaw Charter and Ijaw Nation Code of Ethics, Leadership and Governance (CELG).” The event was organised in Yenagoa by the Ijaw Elders Forum (IEF), Lagos, in collaboration with the Ijaw Professionals Association (IPA), Ijaw Nation Forum (INF), G24 Embasara Foundation and the Ijaw Women Connect (IWC), Worldwide. The Ijaw nation CELG document seeks to entrench defined values and leadership qualities that would henceforth guide aspiration for leadership positions in Ijaw land, and minimum governance guides and standards, among others. Jonathan said that all governorship aspirants and those vying for positions in the Bayelsa local government election scheduled for July 27 should realise that they had a responsibility to ensure peaceful polls and that no man, woman or youth would die because they wanted to occupy elective offices. The former president reiterated his political adage that no political ambition was worth the blood of anyone, and advised politicians in the state to play down violence before, during and after the expected elections in the state. He said that no nation in the world had developed through violence and brigandage, stressing that the case of Bayelsa should not be different. Jonathan, who described the leadership workshop as very timely, said it would serve as a major step by Ijaw elders and stakeholders towards eradicating violence in Bayelsa politics and other Ijaw states. He said, “We must play down violence in our politics. There is no nation all over the world that develops through violence. And the case of Bayelsa should not be different. “Most of the criminal gangs that have emerged in Bayelsa grew through political activities. We the politicians use them as boys and thugs, and at the end of the elections it becomes a problem to manage them. “If God wants you to be governor, if God wants you to be local government chairman, don’t be deceived that you won election because you are violent, no.”