LAGOS – The Minister of State for Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, has said that it would cost the Federal Government a whopping N14.bn to carry out a massive rehabilitation on the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos terminal. He also said that to commence the work, the government would need to close down the terminal, but said this would not happen until the ongoing construction of the second international terminal was concluded. Speaking at the sixth Stakeholders’ Forum at the weekend in Lagos, Sirika lamented that since the terminal was constructed and open for use in 1979, no major expansion had been done on its landside facilities. According to him, the terminal was constructed to accommodate 200, 000 users per annum, but lamented that it now does eight million passengers, stressing that with the continuous over-used of its facilities, the amenities could not last for long. FG To Close Down Enugu Airport Over Deplorable Runway He said: “We require to spend N14bn as palliative on the refurbishment of the international terminal in Lagos. This airport was built in 1979 and intended to carry just 200,000 passengers annually, but it now does over eight million yearly. “This has been my headache in the past two years. We must refurbish it and modernise the facilities. With the current number of usage, you don’t expect the facilities not to go bad regularly. That is why we have to detail a permanent plumber to the toilet facilities. They have to be there 24 hours of the day.” Besides, Engr. Saleh Dunoma, the Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has assured that the ongoing construction of a second international terminal would be completed before the end of the year. The terminal, which is constructed by the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), commenced in 2013 with a promise that it would be completed in 20 months. The terminal was among the other three terminals being constructed by the Chinese company. Two of the terminals; Abuja and Port Harcourt had been commissioned and put to use, while Kano and Lagos are still going through construction. Nigeria had secured a has promised to deliver the ongoing construction of four international airports in the country within 20 months. Nigeria had commenced the project in 2013 with $500m loan deal secured from the Exim Bank of China with additional $100m counterpart funding from Nigeria. Dunoma at the forum said that part of the old terminal would be closed for operation immediately the new terminal was completed. He maintained that this would allow rehabilitation work to commence on the old terminal. “We want the new terminal to come on stream before we commence any work on the old terminal. As it is, we can’t close it totally because it is the only international terminal we have in the state, but a part of it would be shut once the new terminal come onboard,” he assured. It Was Nice Experience Landing At Asaba Int’l Airport – EgyptAir Pilot On his achievements as a minister in the sector, Sirika disclosed that out of 157 aviation projects the administration set out to achieve, it had completed about 130 of such projects. COMMODITIES CURRENCIES RATES MARKETS CBN Parallel Market USD 306 361 POUND 391 471 EURO 342 402 