The transfer window is already open, and the rumours surrounding Everton are already rolling in. Marco Silva and Marcel Brands are set to oversee another overhaul of the squad this summer, and have both already made clear the club have a multitude of targets across a number of positions in the squad to try and improve. In fact, the Blues have already confirmed that Jonas Lossl will be the club’s first signing of the summer when his contract expires with Huddersfield at the end of June – moving to Goodison Park on a free transfer. And, already, speculation is ramping up around what other players could follow him through the door. READ MORE
Relegation, anger and abandoned games – the dramatic end to Everton misfit’s dreadful loan spell Skybet , as ever, are offering odds on many players’ futures this summer – and it’s no surprise to see Everton featuring heavily on a number of lists. These are the five players the bookmakers believe are most likely to join the Blues, but as ever they should be taken with a pinch of salt in some cases… Andre Gomes 7/4 Andre Gomes celebrates against Wolverhampton Wanderers (Image: Gareth Copley/Getty Images)
It’s hardly a surprise to see this one on the list. Andre Gomes was brilliant for Everton during his loan spell from Barcelona last season, quickly winning over supporters with a string of powerful displays. And Blues fans have made no secret of their desire for the Portuguese international to make the move to Merseyside on a permanent basis. READ MORE
Richarlison comments on relationship with David Neres as Everton star links up with reported transfer target Silva has repeatedly made clear that the club will be doing all that they can to try and strike that deal, but a number of other clubs are also said to be interested. Skybet have Everton priced at 7/4 , but Spurs are favourites at 13/8 . There’s surely going to be a lot of competition for Gomes’ signature, so the Blues will have a lot of work to do to make sure they win this race. Thomas Meunier 7/2
Paris Saint-Germain’s Thomas Meunier celebrates scoring his side’s first goal of the game during the UEFA Champions League, Group C match at Anfield, Liverpool.
Paris Saint-Germain’s Thomas Meunier celebrates scoring his side’s first goal of the game during the UEFA Champions League, Group C match at Anfield, Liverpool.
Again, this name might not be too much of a shock to many Blues fans. Everton are known to be on the hunt for a new right back this summer, alongside a number of other positions that need strengthening across the squad of course. And Thomas Meunier is a name that has quite commonly cropped up over the last few months. The Paris Saint-Germain full back is now being linked with a move away from the French giants and a number of clubs are being linked with a potential swoop. With Everton prepared to loan out Jonjoe Kenny to make space for an incoming player in that position, they have jumped towards the head of the queue according to a number of reports. However. Skybet have again got the Blues as 7/2 second-favourites to make the signing – with Manchester United leading the way at 2/1 . There could be some work to do if this one is to be the case. Danny Drinkwater 7/2 Danny Drinkwater of Chelsea, Beni Baningime of Everton and Michy Batshuayi of Chelsea in action during the Carabao Cup Fourth Round match between Chelsea and Everton at Stamford Bridge on October 25, 2017 in London, England. (Photo by Shaun Botterill/Getty Images)
Now, this one is a little bit more of a surprise… Everton are indeed on the hunt for midfield recruitment in the summer, as the previous links to Andre Gomes are a clear testament to, and there’s little doubt the club have identified a number of targets in that role. But, would Danny Drinkwater fit the bill? The 29-year-old was certainly impressive when helping Leicester to the Premier League title back in 2015/16, but hasn’t really lived up to that hype in subsequent campaigns. The very latest Everton transfer rumours are right HERE
Drinkwater made just one appearance for Chelsea last term and has only made 23 overall in the past two campaigns – and a move away from Stamford Bridge is being touted. Everton are once again second-favourites (this is becoming a trend) at 7/2 , with a return for Leicester seemingly the most likely scenario with Skybet at 5/2 . Maybe best to take this one with a pinch of salt. David Neres 5/1
David Neres of Ajax celebrates
David Neres of Ajax celebrates (Image: Eric Verhoeven/Soccrates/Getty Images)
This has been an intriguing rumour recently. Before the end of last season Everton were linked with a potential swoop for David Neres, who was quickly establishing himself as one of the standout players in Ajax’s incredibly exciting squad. With the Dutch side dramatically reaching the semi final of the Champions League before heart-breakingly exiting the tournament at the hands of Spurs, it wasn’t long before other sides had turned their heads towards the Brazil international. The Blues, however, are still being linked with the 22-year-old – who is of course currently on international duty alongside Everton forward Richarlison. And that has clearly got the bookies interested. Skybet this time have Everton as favourites to sign Neres at 5/1 – ahead of Borussia Dortmund, Liverpool and Paris-Saint Germain all at 6/1 . Silva wants a forward, but the Blues will surely have a fight on their hands if they are to chase this one. Callum Wilson 11/1
Callum Wilson celebrates after scoring his sides first goal during the Premier League match between AFC Bournemouth and West Ham United at Vitality Stadium
Callum Wilson celebrates after scoring his sides first goal during the Premier League match between AFC Bournemouth and West Ham United at Vitality Stadium (Image: Mike Hewitt/Getty Images)
And, finally, there’s a little more of an outside side on this potential swoop. Callum Wilson was in fine form for Bournemouth last term, bagging 15 goals and nine assists in all competitions and finally making his breakthrough into the England senior setup. The striker has long been linked with a move away from the south coast side, and this summer is clearly no different. READ MORE
Landon Donovan reveals how he really felt about Everton loan – and Blues fight to keep him Everton are believed to be interested in bringing a more experienced Premier League forward to the club if Cenk Tosun were to leave this summer and the 27-year-old could potentially fit into that bracket. As previously mentioned though, the Blues are somewhat outsiders at 11/1 in this market – with Skybet having Manchester United and Arsenal leading the race at 5/1 and 6/1 respectively.