Tyson Fury has vowed to become the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world in the next 12 months. The Gypsy King returns to action next month against the unheralded Tom Schwarz, but has his sights set on clashes with heavyweight champions Deontay Wilder and Anthony Joshua in the next year. Fury has received some backlash for selecting Schwarz as his next opponent, but the Brit launched a passionate defence of his status as lineal champion at a press conference in London on Monday. ‘I’d just like to clear something up,’ he said. ‘Let’s rewind a few years to November 2015, there’s no doubt in anybody’s minds that Wladimir Klitschko was the undisputed heavyweight champion. Wilder and Joshua hold the four major world titles between them (Picture: Getty) ‘When I kicked his ass, I became the undisputed heavyweight king.’ Bob Arum, who is staging the heavyweight’s debut fight in Las Vegas in June, predicted Joshua and Wilder would be dethroned by Fury in the next year. ‘A year from now I would say he is going to be the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world,’ he said. British fight fans are desperate to see Joshua and Fury fight one day (Picture: Getty) ‘Even more than that, he will be in the top three sportsperson in the world. He will be that well known.’ He added: ‘In one year’s time he will have fame everyone will recognise.’ Wilder and Fury fought to a thrilling draw in Los Angeles last December and that rematch is expected to happen in early 2020. (Picture: Getty) Fury wants a second crack at Wilder in December, but said he had no preference between facing the American or his rival Brit, Joshua. ‘They’re both great fights, great for the fans,’ Fury said of AJ and Wilder. ‘Either or, it doesn’t really matter to me, I already beat Wilder in his own country. Joshua and Wilder say they want to fight Fury (Picture: Getty) ‘We didn’t get the decision, but we won’t moan about that. Whoever, doesn’t really matter. However, wherever. ‘They’re only men with boxing gloves. If we fought ten times out of time, I’d beat them ten times out of ten.’ ‘When it does happen next year, because it will because they can’t beat me, I won’t change,’ he continued. ‘I’ve already been the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world.’ 