ABUJA – Yakubu Dogara, House of Representatives Speaker, has disclosed that the House under his leadership, cooperated with the executive arm of the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari by giving speedy considerations and passage to legislation and other requests forwarded by the President to fast-track implementation of the administration’s policies and plans. Dogara, who disclosed that there were times the House passed Executive bills within two days or one week, also said the 8th House of Representatives was the most performing in Nigeria’s political history since independence in 1960 till date. Dogara, who spoke through a statement released by Turaki Hassan, his media aide, spoke in Abuja when he received the ‘Euro Knowledge Award’ in recognition of his exemplary leadership conferred on him last month at the United Kingdom’s Parliament and another one by the Nigerian government for his contribution to passage of ‘Ease Of Doing Business Bills in Nigeria’. Dogara said: “We have done exceptionally well. It is on record that this has been the most productive National Assembly ever, as well as unparalleled House in the history of the House of Representatives.” “We hope that those who are coming after us, those who will take over from us, will do better and be able to rededicate themselves and to achieve the ideals they set out for themselves. When we started out on the 8th Assembly, it was our desire and thank God, we can say today that we have cleaned up virtually all laws we inherited from even 1800. For some of us who read Law, we may have knowledge on the Statutes of General Application. “Before we embarked on this massive exercise, some of our Law books were still containing Pounds Sterling, in some Laws, some addresses in the United Kingdom were even mentioned. To the credit of the 8th Assembly, all those things are no longer reflected in the body of our Laws. “For the ‘Ease of Doing Business’, anyone who thinks we have not supported government enough in the bid to create a conducive business environment to attract better investment into Nigeria, should check what we have done in the area of the ease of doing business in Nigeria. “There were times when we ensured that within days or weeks, we passed these bills that were required to jumpstart this process to bring Nigeria out of recession and prosper. This made Nigeria jump about 24 places in the Global Index of the World Ranking of Nations in the Ease of Doing Business. Words like these only spur one to do his best, we will continue to do our best in the interest of our country and of its people in whatever position we are.