Dr. Bryant (ABC) Orjiako, the Chairman of Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, in this interview with MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, spoke on oil and gas issues in Nigeria and what his company is currently doing to add value to the sector .Excerpts: How are you able to recover from the oil slump that happened several years ago? Frankly, our business is focused on the effective and efficient delivery of projects and operations. Therefore, we pride ourselves to be a low-cost bio-operating company and therefore, in spite of the volatility and low oil price, our business continues to remain comfortable and that is really what we have demonstrated in the results you are seeing and we will continue to build on that. Your investment in the gas sector is enormous. Are you venturing into the midstream soon or planning to drill more gas wells to support your gas processing plant? We are already in the gas midstream business. Last year, we spoke about two main things in terms of our gas business. We spoke about what we have been able to do in our gas growth, we added the capacity to process that gas and we are able to increase that processing capacity to 525 million scf a day and that was phenomenon. This year, you will also be conversant that we are taking the first investment decision for our next gas business which is the ANOH gas processing which is more like an addition to our midstream business. That will add another 300 million scf in the first phase. On the question of whether we will drill pure gas well; it is just a function of what we have to do to meet the capacities of what we have installed. Now, the existing gas reserves we have has a combination of associated gas and non-associated gas. When we have the need, we will drill the wells as the need arises. Are you saying Seplat has taken final decision on alternate export pipeline? Yes. This is because the 2018  of our operational and financial performance reflected the significantly higher year-on-year levels of production uptime in its core oil producing assets combined with a firmer and increased contribution from the company’s gas business. Do not forget that Seplat’s investment in gas aided its ability to hedge volatility in the oil industry, while also announcing that its board has taken the Final Investment Decision (FID) for the ANOH and Amukpe to Escravos alternate export pipeline, which will be completed and fully inaugurated this second quarter (Q2). As you are aware, our results from the previous two years were characterised by the extended period of force majeure at the Forcados Terminal from February 2016 to June 2017. What is your take on the security situation in the Niger-Delta and what do you think could be done to make things better? Frankly, I must say that the overall, the Niger Delta security situation has improved tremendously, but there is always room for improvement and the only thing we can do is that all hands must be on deck; the communities will play their role and to get them to play their role, the operating companies must play their roles. We will like to see a situation where the relationship continues to improve between the operating companies and the communities. Secondly, the government must also keep to their promises and once you put all of this together, you can only see improvement and more calm in the Niger Delta. Infrastructure development, employment creation for especially among the youth is the key instruments to maintaining long term peace in the Nigeria Delta When will the Assa-North gas project come on stream and what impact will it create to the nation’s economy? I think from Seplat point of view, we have contributed more than 100 million, the government contributed their own 100 million and we are expecting that we will be contributing about 50 million in the near term. We are expecting that this project is already on track and we have taken the first investment decision and we are going down with three contracting processes and our guidance is that we will have the first gas by the first quarter of 2021 and we believe we will be able to deliver on that. With respect to the impact on the national economy, 300 million scf a day of gas; if you convert that, it translates to about 3000 Megawatts of power and that is 50 per cent of installed capacity in Nigeria. It will have a phenomenal impact and we are expecting that once this comes on track, it will enhance the demand in the western Niger Delta and more importantly, it will create demand in the eastern Niger Delta and we have already beginning to see that happen. Apart from power, there are also other aspects of the economy that this will impact; agricultural sector, industries and overall, the manufacturing sector will be impacted. Therefore, when we say that Seplat is a company that is well keyed into the development economically of Nigeria, we mean that we are extremely impactful with employment and empowerment key in our operations. So, apart from gas to power, the real trickle-down effect, the real multiplier effect in the economy will be a phenomenon and I am looking forward to the entire country to be extremely happy with what we are doing and for other companies to emulate. As one of the major suppliers of gas to the Azura Power plant, which other companies are you looking when the Assa-North gas project becomes operational? The best way to describe Seplat and I have spoken a lot about our differentiation, is that we have created a race in this competition that only us are running and frankly, by the time the others come, we will create other races. Our gas development is one of those types. We have demonstrated the ability to do willing buyer, willing seller supply of gas and in addition to meeting our domestic supply obligations. There are not many companies that have met this and what I will like to say about Azura is that it is a willing buyer, willing seller arrangement and it is a take or pay arrangement. The truth of the matter is that the demand is high and it is growing so we are not indeed short of the market. Gas is one market where supply creates demand, but in this case, we have a situation where demand is already existing before the supply, so we can only do one thing and which is continue to grow that business and if you look at the infrastructure gap in Nigeria for power alone, you can only say that the future is bright and we can only grow that business. It is assumed that the commercial and financial framework for gas-to-power is weak. Do you think it is still cheaper to flare gas despite the recently passed law on gas flaring? That is quite not correct, it used to be the case that domestic gas price was less than 50 cents per thousand scf; this is very important and many people must know this. If you have that kind of pricing and the time the international gas price was over $10 and the domestic price was less than 50 cents, really, investment is like water flowing downstream, it is not going to flow upstream. Therefore, it became very difficult for people to invest in the gas business and the second thing that happened was that by 2012, the government took a bold step and came out with their gas revolution plan and that gas revolution plan has various components to it. One was the price and they immediately moved gas prices, the domestic market price from less than 5 cents per thousand scf to structured increases, $1.50, $2.50 as well as addressing the processing fees and tariff. Therefore, at the back of this programme, we immediately launched our gas expansion and commercialisation programme. By the time we started investing, we already had the market at the right price that was also increasing, so it was not quite correct to say that the gas price in the domestic market is low. When prices at the domestic market was less than 5 cents, transfer price to NLNG was $2 so there was obviously no incentive to invest in the domestic market at that time, but all of that has changed. The Nigerian domestic price is in $3 range and above. Transfer price at NLNG is still at $2 so there is lot more incentive put gas in the domestic market and more so, the domestic market is increasing so it is a low brainer. In respect to the gas flare, it is really a true statement that anybody who is still flaring gas today, is actually burning petrodollars because the penalty that has been revised will mean that you will pay as much penalty as you would have received revenue for investing in the gas. So that by itself is an investment for people to invest. From my own perspective, we are not only committed to the gas business just for revenue, because we pride ourselves as a company that keeps very high in our priority and environmental stewardship.. Are you saying the current arrangement under the new law will encourage investors to come into the sector? Yes, that is the point. The core domestic gas price is adequate to attract investments in Nigeria and it is comparable to international gas price and people should be able to invest and that is why we are investing and we are making money. Are you diversifying into petrochemicals in the future? Obviously, our business is in the energy sector which is a broadband and we will definitely take one step at a time. Today, we are concentrating in our oil and gas business where we are consolidating our upstream business in production, we have now launched the midstream, we will like to see how we progress with that, we consolidate before we take other options and we are very focused. Sir, tell us a brief history about yourself? Dr. Bryant (ABC) Orjiako is the Co-Founder & Chairman, Seplat Petroleum Development Company PLC He is the Chairman and co-founder of SEPLAT, a leading Nigerian independent oil and gas company listed on the London and Nigerian stock exchanges with a strategic focus in the Niger Delta of Nigeria. After obtaining an M.B.B.Ch. degree in 1985 from the College of Medical Sciences, University of Calabar, Nigeria, he trained as a General Surgeon at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Lagos, and later sub-specialised in orthopaedic and trauma surgery and became a fellow of the West African College of Surgeons in 1996. In 2006, he completed the OPM program of the Harvard Business School. He established and managed various companies in the upstream, downstream and service sectors of the oil and gas industry in Nigeria. These include Abbeycourt Trading Company Limited, Abbeycourt Energy Services Limited, Zebbra Energy Limited and Shebah Exploration and Production Company Limited. He also has other business interests in construction, real estate development, pharmaceuticals and shipping. He went into full-time business in 1996 after eleven years of active medical practice. In 2009, his company Shebah Exploration and Production Company and Platform Petroleum Limited co-founded SEPLAT. Since inception, he has remained the Chairman spearheading new business development and providing leadership on strategy and stakeholder relationships. Under his leadership, the company has become a highly reputable Nigerian Independent recording several milestones comprising successfully closing landmark acquisitions, growing the company’s oil and gas production exponentially and becoming a well-run company with strong and transparent governance. He has steered the company, in the space of five years, to steadily emerge a global brand while attaining its remarkable growth aspirations. Under his watch, the company pioneered dual listing of its shares on the Nigerian and London stock exchanges in 2014. In recognition of the company’s achievements, SEPLAT recently won the Best Africa listing 2014 award by Africa Investors (Ai), “Mid-Cap Company of The Year 2014” award by the Oil and Gas Council and was named a “Global Growth Company 2014” by the World Economic Forum in 2014. Dr. ABC Orjiako is on the board of companies in various sectors; he is the chairman of Neimeth Pharmaceutical International plc, which is listed on the NSE; a director of MPI, which is listed on NYSE Euronext Paris and a director of Leadway Assurance Company Limited. By invitation of the London Stock Exchange, he became a founding member of the London Stock Exchange Group’s Africa Advisory Group (“LAAG”), a select group working towards generating and channeling ideas and problem solve towards the issues affecting the African continent from a commercial and social perspective. Consolidating his firm commitment to philanthropy, he founded the Daniel Orjiako Memorial Foundation (‘‘DOMF’’) in 1996 in honour of his late father, Chief Daniel O. Orjiako. Since inception, the DOMF has executed numerous programmes in rural Nigerian communities in education, healthcare services and economic empowerment through agriculture aimed at providing welfare and breaking the poverty cycle. In recognition of his services to humanity, Pope John Paul II in 2003 bestowed on him a Knighthood of the Order of St. Gregory the Great (KSGG). He has received numerous awards and recognitions for his service to humanity and his entrepreneurial achievements. Some of these notable awards include the Distinguished Alumnus Award and Doctor of Sciences (D.Sc. Honoris Causa) by the University of Calabar, Nigeria in 2001; Platinum Award of the West African College of Surgeons in 2006;  National Honours as an Officer of the Federal Republic (“OFR”), conferred on him by the President of Nigeria in 2012; the coveted Zik (Nnamdi Azikiwe) Prize in the Professional Leadership category by the Public Policy Research and Analysis Centre (PPRAC) and African Business Executive of the Year 2014, by the Oil and Gas Council. Dr. ABC Orjiako was born and raised in Nigeria. He is happily married with four children.