LAGOS – The first prosecution witness and wife of the late Chief Executive Officer of Credit Switch ltd, Mr Opeyemi Gbademosi on Tuesday narrated to a Lagos State High Court, sitting in Igbosere how their Togolese Cook murdered her husband. The woman Mrs Ebunoluwa Gbademosi, said her husband was killed by a cook, three days after he was employed. The 22 –year- old Togolese cook, Sunday Anani, is facing a two count charge of murder and armed robbery preferred against him, by the Lagos State government. While being led in evidence by Shitta-Bay, the witness said that on the fateful day, she had gone to Polaris Bank, at Falomo, to do some transfers to Dubai and China, and by the time she came back, she saw blood flowing from her husband’s room. She said that while she was about leaving the bank, the deceased had angrily called her, and was asking her why the defendant was knocking at his door, and also asked if she was back from the bank, she said no that she was on her way. Gbademosi said that the deceased, later told her that he will open the door to find out what the defendant, wants. According to her, before she left the house, for the bank, she had told the defendant that ‘Oga dey sleep’ ( that her husband was still sleeping), that he shouldn’t wake him up, that he should continue with the cleaning of the house which he was about starting when she was leaving the house. She said that she had not seen her husband that morning, as they do not share the same room, so she just told the defendant that she was going out and would be back soon. The witness further told Justice Mobolanle Okikiolu- Ighile, that she got to the bank at exactly 8:05am. She said : “I left the bank and drove through Bourdillon, and went home, the security man opened the gate, I drove in and I went through the kitchen door to gain access into the building, through the kitchen door, which was locked, I knocked severally, calling on the defendant, but he didn’t come to open the door, my husband’s bedroom and the kitchen door, was a distance, so I felt he must be doing something for him, so I waited by the kitchen door, for a while.”