LOKOJA – The Kogi State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Mrs Oludolapo Ahile, has died in a ghastly auto crash that occurred Thursday, May 16. The Assistant Director, Public Relations, Kogi NYSC, Mr Adedapo Tayo, told journalists in Lokoja that the coordinator was involved in an accident alongside her husband, along Keffi-Akwanga-Lafia highway in Nassarawa State. According to the Public Relations Officer, the accident occurred at Lafia axis of the highway at about 2p.m on Thursday, May16, afterhervehiclesuddenly somersaulted two times and entered into the bush while all the tires were intact. Tayo added that the late coordinator and her husband with other two occupants were on their way to a Tiv land in Benue State, for a burial funeral of her father in-law. He said that all the four occupantsof thevehiclewererushed to the hospital but it was unfortunate that Mrs. Ahile died early hour on Friday May 17, at the hospital. He said that her husband, Mr Michael Ahile, the driver and one other person survived the crash, but sustained injuries, saying they had been hospitalised. According to Tayo, the late Mrs Ahile, left Lokoja around 6 a.m on Thursday May 16, to join her husband in Abuja in preparation for the funeral of her father in-law scheduled to hold at Tiv land, Benue State. ”Her husband, Mr. Michael Ahile joined her in Abuja and they embarked on the journey to Tiv land in Benue State, along Keffi-Akwanga-Lafia highway. ”The accident occurred at Lafia in Nasarrawa State at about 2 p.m, and they were quickly moved to the Lafia Specialist hospital for medical attention. ”By 2 a.m this morning, we received information that she died at the Specialist Hospital Lafia,” Tayo said. He said that the NYSC management had directed that the husband, Mr Ahile, be moved to Specialist Hospital in Abuja for adequate medical attention. He noted that Mr Michael Ahile, the deceased husband, was a full flex director in the NYSC before he retired. Tayo added that the NYSC Directorate Headquarters of the scheme had also swung into action concerning this sad incident and were on top of the situation.