UYO – The Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Akwa Ibom state Police Command over the weekend busted and demolish a kidnappers hideout in Uyo the state capital. The breakthrough which led to a rescue of one of the captives, Mr. Gassan Naser in the kidnappers den, also resulted in the killing of three of the hoodlums. Located at Ekpri Nsukara village in Uyo local government area of the state, the hideout as explained by the state Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO) Odiko MacDon was discovered last Friday when operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad went in search of the kidnapped construction company expert. It could be recalled that Naser, a site Manager of Zenith Construction Company working in Mbiaya in Uruan local government area was kidnapped on April 30th by gunmen at the site while a police sergeant attached to him, Sgt. Mohammed Sarba was shot dead. The Police, the PPRO explains “received approval from the state governor Mr. Udom Emmanuel to demolish the hideout same Friday that Gassan Naser was rescued and three of the hoodlums shot dead by the SARS team”. “Our investigation revealed that the high profile kidnap gang was responsible for the kidnappings and killings of top politicians including a monarch in the state”. “The kidnapper’s lodge, a bungalow nearing completion and standing alone in the Ekpri Nsukara bush was started two months ago. So we demolished it at about 7:00pm last Friday by a team SARS team with a Bulldozer hired from one of the construction firms in the state”. He added Checks from our correspondent further revealed that before the kidnappers were gunned down, one of them had confessed their perfected plan to start kidnapping top state government officials, Commissioners and keeping them at the hideout. Having attracted government’s attention before the demolition, some government officials including the Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Security Matters, Capt Iniobong Ekong and a media Aide to the governor, Mr Ndueso Essien witnessed the demolition by SARS at the weekend. Though the sum of N500m was demanded as ransom to secure the victim’s freedom, the PPRO and the victim Naser said no ransom was paid.