OSOGBO – Oluwo of Iwo, Oba (Dr.) Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, has urged the federal government to empower traditional rulers and policemen to checkmate incessant kidnapping characterizing Nigeria. Oba Akanbi, in a statement by his press secretary, Alli Ibraheem , condemned the incessant kidnapping and beseeched government at the centre to maximally fund the police and initiate a special security imprests for monarchs who are the closest authority to the grassroots. Oluwo also called for enactment of severe penalty on kidnapping convicts , saying such will instill fear of legal reprisal on their illegal action. “Traditional rulers should be empowered to domesticate security at the grassroots which constitutes higher percent of the hideouts for kidnappers. Co-opting monarchs will unavoidably decimate security threat. But traditional institution should be given security vote to engage local hunters, vigilante, agbekoyas, trusted local OPC, etc. Ordinary I’m trying my utmost in my domain and very yielding but the institution I represent deserves security funding to act more” “I’ve personally arrested a criminal in my domain and handed him over to the police. I know the nooks and crannies of my city. No criminal can survive with illegality here. I’ve instilled the fear, this has decimated atrocities in Iwo. My institution is ready to do more if empowered by engaging trusted local security details.The police saddled with this primary responsibility is under funded and under staffed. Nigeria of over 200million population is parading about 300,000 policemen. The police should be equipped with modern tools, encouraging salary and better job security as motivation for maximal performance” He also said government should provide surveillance helicopters to aid technical detective assignments by the police most especially when investigating kidnappers hideouts” He advised that strict punishment should be enacted and uphold by agencies of government,adding that fear of legal reprisal can equally disabuse some perpetrators” “The ultimate panacea is the implementation of robust youth based programs and empowerment for the Nigerian youth. The root of every security threat is unemployment. Addressing this will halt the menace of criminality and clean our country of social vices,”he said.