Equity markets across the globe witnessed a bearish trend as trade dispute between China and US were escalated during the week following the seeming breakdown in their earlier discussion that had led to the new taxes on China products announced in early hour of Friday, despite the schedule meeting to hold this week. The bleeding on the Nigerian Stock Exchange throughout the trading sessions over the past week was as a result of selling pressure to continue the three consecutive weeks of decline that is gradually sending the market into two year low on a negative sentiment and weak market fundamentals. Despite the just concluded earnings season and the news of CBN governor re-appointment for second tenure of five after, he has directed the monetary policy to resuscitate the economy from recession and stabilised the system so far. The weak market fundamentals that had kept NSE composite index in this downtrend are low confidence, low liquidity and unimpressive corporate earnings for the year 2018 and Q1 2019 numbers that were below market expectation. But the factors for the market at this season are spring up in form of positive news despite this traders mindset of sell in May and go away, the prevailing low Price/Earnings Ratio of the market, despite the seemingly weak Q1 numbers, should give hope of a rebound very soon, following which discerning investors and traders should take advantage of the current low prices of especially blue-chip stocks as their prices had suffered a significant decline in this down market situation. Expected monetary stability with the re-appointment of the CBN Governor as he tries to use both conventional and unconventional monetary policies to boost productivities that will create the much expected jobs to reduce unemployment and insecurity in the land as CBN recently launched creative special funds of single interest rate to boost creative industry. Also, the Federal Government had pledged to partner the NSE in the privatisation of some public enterprises and ensure it plays a role in the process of the further work on the ‘Ease of Doing Business’, among other aspects of economic growth and development. This will result in more companies coming to list and thereby offering investors more options. Another exciting news for the market is the impending listing of MTN Nigeria’s shares on the floor of the NSE, a situation expected to further broaden the market and give investors more choices. Meanwhile, the nation’s key economic indicators are still positive, considering the drop in inflation rate to 11.25%, the cut in Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) to 13.5%, while external reserves as at May 8, stood at $44.843bn. Also noteworthy is oil price selling above $70 per barrel, as at Thursday, just as the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) is billed to publish the April consumer price index and Q1 GDP numbers May 20. Alongside the monetary policy committee meeting holding May 20/21. These will further show how well the Nigerian economy has performed and enable investors to react appropriately to the data and outcome of the MPC meeting, given that the NSE is a renowned discounting machine and a leading indicator. Movement Of NSEASI The benchmark index for the period under review had unimpressive outing as it close negative in all the five trading days of the week, bringing a total loss to 1.25%, compared to previous week’s 1.78% decline. As year to date, negative position stood at 8.22% to reveal the present opportunity in the market, looking at it 52 weeks high and low. Insurance stocks dominated the advancers table despite the sector late filling of its corporate earnings and price adjustment for the dividend, as sell pressure continue in highly capitalised equities and blue-chip companies due to weak Q1 numbers that were below market expectation. The momentum behind the week’s performance was weak, as shown by the money flow index at 23.83 basis points, compared to 23.77bps in the previous week. This is indicating that funds are leaving the market, just as sell position stood at 74% and buy volume, 26% on a transaction volume index of 0.94. NSEASI Weekly Time Frame NSE Index action continue to pullback for the week, on a high traded volume and breakdown of this last Fibonacci retracement level that’s support will lead to lower lows, also reversal at this triple bottom formation is high depending on market forces. But looking at the negative sentiments that had dominated the market as Money Flow index is looking down. And, at the same time, NSEASI is trading below its 20-day Moving Average and MACD is bearish. But the index touched the lower Bollinger bands signals ‘buy’ as reversal remain imminent. Bearish Sectoral Indices All the sectors during the period suffered heavy losses as NSE Oil/Gas was down by 5.3%, followed by Banking with 2.8% decline and next were Insurance, Industrial and Consumer goods shedding 1.7%, 0.4% and 0.2% respectively. This reflected selloffs irrespective of the positive news and expectations of fiscal stimulus. Market breadth was negative with decliners outnumbering advancers in the ratio of 49:19, to extend the down market. Overall, a total turnover of 1.47 billion shares worth N10.58 billion in 17,603 deals were traded this week by investors on the floor of the Nigerian exchange in contrast to a total of 1.47 billion shares valued at N15.49 billion that exchanged hands last week in 18,090 deals. BetaGlass and Courtville were the best-performing stocks for the week to topped advancers’ chart with 23.1% and 13.6% gains respectively, closing at N68.95 and N0.25 per share on low price attraction and market forces respectively. On the other hand, Goldlink Insurance and Japaul Oil lost 36.1% and 33.3% respectively, closing at N0.23 and N0.26, on market forces and profit taking after recent rally. During the week also, the prices of Caverton, Prestige Assurance, Aiico Insurance and Consolidated Hallmark insurance were adjusted for a dividend of 25kobo, 3 kobo, 6 kobo, and 2kobo respectively, as proposed by their directors. Also, NSE trading two year low makes many equities on exchange undervalued for investors to catch on. Market Outlook We expect the mixed performance to continue this week, despite CBN governor re-appointment and expected key data and last MPC meeting, as market players maintain a cautious outlook due to low confidence and liquidity, waiting for major economic triggers. Hence, we advise investors to trade cautiously in the short-term, with their gaze fixed on blue chip stocks that are selling more than 40% below their 52 weeks high. As we look out for positive catalyst to drive market recovery. That notwithstanding, we would not overlook the possibility of a bargain-hunting motive supporting positive performance, especially with many fundamentally sound stocks remaining underpriced. With the prices of major blue chips continuing to drop in recent weeks, we expect speculative trading to shape the market’s direction this week, despite the seeming negative outlook. The sustained volatility will continue as investors and fund managers rebalance their portfolios, with eyes fixed on the political space and post-election market dynamics. Investors should review their positions in line with their investment goals, the strength of company numbers and act as events unfold in the global and domestic environment. However, we would like to reiterate our advice that investors should go for equities with intrinsic value and allow numbers guide their decisions while repositioning in any stock, especially now that stock prices remain low in the midst of mixed company numbers, weak economic and market fundamentals. Take Action The difference between you and others who are not aware of what I am sharing with you is ACTION. Take action that will transform your life throughout 2019 and beyond by getting the just concluded and life-transforming Invest 2019 Traders & Investors Success Summit, Chart Summit, and Post-Election Bulls & Bears Home study pack (USB) that you can play on your phone, Laptop and Television set. The events were a successful, insightful and educative outing that not only offered direction as to where investors should look for profitable trade in 2019 and beyond, insight into industries, sectors, and companies to seek worthwhile returns. What stocks should you buy? Grab the pack for the 10 Golden Stocks with the possibility of offering in 2019 multiples of what broader stocks do, coming out of this market correction environment. Don’t sit on the Fence call or text Stock to 08028164085, 08032055467, 08111811223 now. 