Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – Hon. Hakeem Bamgbola, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has thrown his weight behind Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives saying he is eminently qualified to lead the House of Representatives as its Speaker. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Bamgbola, who is the Vice Chairman, Lagos Central Senatorial District of the APC, said given the frosty relationship between the Executive and Legislative arm in the eighth National Assembly, there is need to elect leaders who share the same vision with President Muhammadu Buhari in his quest to take Nigeria to the Next Level. He said aside being the highest ranking member amongst the Reps-elect, Gbajabiamila who enjoys support across political parties in the country, possesses the skills, knowledge and charisma to lead the House to its desired heights. Buhari Master In Blaming Others For His Failures – Dogara He said “As the National Assembly prepares to elect its leadership who will pilot its affairs for the next four years; there is a need to elect leaders who will partner and work in synergy with the Executive arm of government in order to assist President Muhammadu Buhari in taking Nigeria to the Next Level”. “We all know that National Assembly is a strategic arm of government to achieve the Change Agenda for the country in the Next Level, hence the need to elect leaders who are highly experienced and who are committed to the ideals of the party”. “As a concerned Nigerian, I strongly believe that there is a need for mutual and effective working relationship with the ninth National Assembly and the Presidency. This becomes necessary especially if we want to avoid the frosty relationship between the Executive and Legislative arm of government as witnessed in the eighth National Assembly”. “Already, the leadership of APC has already endorsed Senator Ahmad Lawan and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as candidates for Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives respectively. This position has also been supported by President Muhammadu Buhari and our highly esteemed National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as well as other well-meaning members of the party”. “As a party leader in Lagos Central senatorial district, I am particularly interested in the candidacy of Gbajabiamila, the current Majority Leader of the House given the fact that he is a man I have enjoyed a close relationship with for years. I believe that Gbaja, as he is popularly called has the pedigree, skills, vast network and charisma to lead the House. The House must led by a person with considerable legislative experience and expertise to preside over its affairs and also weather the storm at any given time. Gbaja clearly fits the bill”. “Aside being the longest serving member in the House which clearly gives him an advantage, Gbajabiamila is embodiment of loyalty who has kept faith with the progressives since 2003 when he was first elected into the House of Reps. A very consistent politician, he refused the overtures to join the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and also played pivotal role in protecting the interest of the APC until the party became the ruling party in the House”. “I implore the Reps-elect to cast their votes for Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, a true progressive, a highly detribalised Nigerian who has received endorsement even from governors who are not elected under APC platform such as Willie Obiano of Anambra and Nyesom Wike of Rivers. He will not only take the House to enviable heights but will also give President Buhari the much-needed cooperation to deliver on his programmes for Nigerians”. Role Of Legislature In Enhancing Financial Autonomy For State Parliament, State Judiciary (1)