ASABA – After spending 27- days in captivity, the kidnapped mother and aunt of the Pere of Kabowei (Patani) Kingdom in Delta State, His Royal Majesty, Shadrach Erebulu, Adou lll, have regained freedom from their captors. The traditional ruler’s mother, Queen Elizabeth Erebulu and her sister, Mrs Okee Yawima were abducted at their different homes on Wednesday April 17, 2019. Sources told our correspondent that the king’s mother was abducted at her home located around Taware Quarters in Patani town, Patani Local Government Area of Delta State, while her sister, Mrs. Yawoma, was kidnapped at Adagbabiri community, a Bayelsa State. The abductors freed their victims after collecting N11 million from the families of their victims. A source within the royal family confirmed that the monarch’s mother and her sister were released on Sunday from where they had been held captive. The captors had demanded N250 million ransom before they could free the two victims. It was learnt that the kidnappers had during the period of negotiation demanded N150 million to free the king’s mother while they pegged ransom for the monarch’s aunt at N100 million. Community sources revealed that the revered and youngest Ijaw traditional ruler is displeased with the development particularly it is a taboo for anyone to plot evil against members of the royal family. It was learnt that the king’s mother and her sister were subjected to inhuman treatment as they were kept by their captors under a tree deep inside the creeks sharing boundary between Bayelsa and Delta State. They were said to have been kept under unbearable condition all through the 27 days of abduction. However, the Ijaw monarch, a lawyer, irked by the development, has declared spiritual war against the kidnappers as he has gone into seclusion to invoke the gods of the Kabowei Kingdom for those behind the crime. It was learnt that Adou lll has pronounced that anyone involved in the abduction of his mother and his aunt particularly indigenes of Kabowei Kingdom should immediately confess within a period of 21 days or be ready to die in mysterious circumstances. Meanwhile, the Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO), DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya confirmed the development.