Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Few days ago, a friend of mine called me from Benin city. He wanted me to pray for his job. I wanted to know his prayer point. He told me that the Governor of Edo State, His Excellency Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki, has just declared that Public Officers who have reached the age of 60 or who have served up to 35 years should prepare for their retirement. The State Head of service has released a memo to this effect. I asked my friend, what is wrong with this policy? This is because, I know, this is one of the policies I have been praying for – so that there will be enough space for youth employment and empowerment. My friend lamented that if this new policy stands, it will surely affect him and so many others who have served more than 35 years. Moreover, so many civil servants, according to him, have passed the age of 60. After much argument I promised my friend that I will surely pray. I will not just pray for the governor to succeed in retiring those who have served for more than 35 years. I will also pray that this policy will equally affect the politicians. All the politicians who have practiced politics for more than 35 years should equally retire. If Civil servants were to retire at the age of 60 then all the politicians at the age of 65 and above should start preparing for their retirement.   This is the only way we can solve the problem of unemployment in this country. The last time the Federal government passed the bill “Not Too Young to Run” I was among those who frown at this bill because this bill has little or nothing to do with youth empowerment. Reducing the age of the youths in politics does not make any sense. We have so many qualified youths but we have no space for them to participate actively in politics or other public offices. Most of the spaces are occupied by people who are old enough to retire and become elder statesmen. In fact, the “Not too young to Run” have even added to the problem and frustrations among the youths. We now have more qualified and frustrated youths but with little or no space for them to exercise their leadership role. If we sincerely want to create space for the unemployed youths, Instead of “Not too Young to Run” what we actually need in Nigeria is two simple bills “Too Old to Run” and “Not Too Poor to Run.” The “Too Old to Run” bill will flush out from the political system all the politicians who have passed the age of 65. They should all retire and embrace the Elder statesmen package.  The second bill is meant to give equal level play to all the youths, whether rich or poor. As at now what we are playing in Nigeria is the politics of money. Imagine, the amount one has to pay in order acquire an ordinary form – how many poor people will ever afford that amount? It does not make sense! This is an indirect way of denying the poor, especially the youths, the right of active participation in politics. Whoever says politics is only for the rich or for the Elderly ones is a liar! The youths have something to offer. The earlier we acknowledge this fact the better. There are so many reasons why I support the governor of Edo State in the early retirement of public officers. As I said earlier, this move will certainly create space for youth employment and empowerment. No one occupies an occupied space. If we really want our children to have space in public services then we must create enough space for them. One of the ways to achieve this goal is  through early retirement of public officers. Early retirement will prolong the lives of public officers: When Pope Benedict wanted to retire people thought he would die in the next few months but to our greatest surprise Pope Benedict is still alive and much more healthy. He voluntarily retired. Today, he is enjoying his retirement package. If he had remained in that office by now he would have died. Death in active service is the worst form of death. One does not have to die in service. My daily prayer for all the civil servants is that they will serve meritoriously and retire  peacefully. If you are a public officer, you will not die in office, you will live to enjoy your retirement package! Early retirement will bring new innovations into the working system. Most of our current civil servants are those who used typewriter to study but right now we are in a jet age where most sectors are computerized. Retirement is a period of Freedom: Catherine Pulsifer defines Retirement as a time to do what you want to do, when you want to do it, where you want to do it, and, how you want to do it.” People are not free to do what they want during public service. They wake up very early to prepare for work. They are not free to leave until dismissal time. This can be stressful! To live in such a stressful mood for more than 35 year is another form of bondage. Not everybody frown at retirement. Hartman Jule, for instance describes his retirement as the most beautiful period in his life: “Retirement has been a discovery of beauty for me. I never had the time before to notice the beauty of my grandkids, my wife, the tree outside my very own front door. And, the beauty of time itself.” This is exactly what retirement is supposed to be. It is not something one should regret or frown at. Retirement is not the end of one’s life. It does not even mean that one is incapacitated. According to Ravi Samuel, “Retirement from Job does not mean retirement from life! It is the beginning not an end!” One may retire from one job and is free to take up another job. Retired persons are not useless: People should stop seeing retirement as the end of one’s life. They should equally stop seeing retired persons as good for nothing. We have so many things we can learn from retired persons. Experience is the best teacher! Retired persons can serve as consultants in their various fields.  The youths can always tap from their wealth of knowledge and wisdom. The Government should prepare an attractive retirement package: One of the reasons why people are afraid of retirement, especially in places like Nigeria, is poor retirement package. Most of those who retired are struggling to receive their pension and gratuity. Some of them have even died without receiving their gratuity. It’s unfair!!! “If we want people to retire voluntarily so as to create space for the unemployed youths then we must ensure that their future is secured. Their gratuity and their pension should be paid as at when due. We should also celebrate and if possible award those who have served meritoriously. This will encourage others not only to look up to retirement but also to put in their best during their period of service”. Retirement is a period of gratitude and thanksgiving: Most people die while in public service. If one is alive to attain his retirement age that calls for celebration. One must be grateful to God for allowing him or her to serve meritoriously. I want to use this medium to commend the governor of Edo State for this bold and divinely inspired decision. It is not just enough to retire people who are above 35 years in service. The most important thing is to ensure that this space is used to employ as many youths as possible. This will not just solve the problem of unemployment it will also solve the problem of insecurity because an idle mind is devil’s workshop!