Alhaji (Dr.) Jamilu Isiyaku Gwamna, the Sardauna of Gombe, in this interview with select journalists, explains why the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lost the just concluded governorship election in Gombe state and other issues. WILLIAM ATTAH brings the excerpts: The 2019 elections has come and gone how would you assess it? I want to thank God for granting us the opportunity to witness the elections, in my opinion the elections was well planned and executed, even though there were some initial challenges that brought about a little adjustment in the time table. By and large, it was a huge success and we return all glory to the almighty God. All stakeholders also deserve commendations especially INEC and the security. What is your take on the fate of PDP in Gombe state in the last elections? First, I want to commend electorate in Gombe state for voting out PDP in 2019 general elections. It was not something that we least expected, everybody who is conversant with what has been happening in Gombe state in the last seven years or so knows definitely that PDP will lose in the elections, I am only surprised that it was able to gain 5 seats in the state house of assembly elections. Ogunlewe Formally Joins APC Can you shed light on the reasons for the dismal performance of the PDP in the elections? The atrocious performance of PDP in the last general elections is not unconnected to the attitude and leadership style of Governor Dankwambo in addition to the party’s internal factors which made the electorate in Gombe state to grow more and more disgusted with the party. You see the self-sufficiency syndrome and philosophy of the State Governor, Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo has not only eroded his political base and grip in Gombe State, but has made PDP to lose popularity after 16 years of state control. So, his assurance in his superiority did not make him popular in this election Instead, his political blunder caused PDP a terrible setback. Ask anybody who knows Dankwambo very well, he will assure you that Dankwambo believes he is better than everybody; this is evidenced by the facts that he does not take advice from people, he does not have a good sense of human relations, he treats fellow human beings as slaves, he runs solo in governance. In a nutshell Dankwambo has an attitude problem and would you expect a party under such a leader to win elections? Of course there are good people in PDP in Gombe state but Dankwambo has succeeded in destroying their political career. Ganduje In The Eye Of The Storm The electorates also are angry with the governor, he has refused to pay gratuities of retired civil servants, and civil servants are not motivated. Their promotions are not regular, they are denied some of their entitlements, and state resources are not evenly distributed across the state. He has refused to fulfill most of the promises he made to communities and individuals, contractors are not left out, the debt burden on the state is a different topic of discussion. The outcome of the elections in Gombe State is not only a reflection of the will of the masses but also an evidence of Dankwambo’s leadership deficiencies. Look at how voters took to the polling unit and dealt a deadly blow to PDP and the political career of Dankwambo. So humiliating was the fact that a sitting Governor was defeated by the candidate of an opposition party with an unimaginable gap, I mean this was avoidable and uncalled for. Anyway, I am happy that it turned out to be that sour for PDP in Gombe state. The most amazing scenario was APC’s invasion into the strong hold and traditional home of PDP namely Gombe South Senatorial zone, it was amazing that a new entrant into politics (Col. Bulus now senator elect) convincingly defeated one of PDP’s strongest woman of Gombe south senatorial zone (Hajiya Binta Bello) who have been in the corridor of political power for almost two decades. In the race to the green chamber, another newcomer (Dr. Elisha Karu) defeated a one- time lawmaker and an experienced politician, (Alhaji Gora Kalba) in the race to the green chamber. A careful study of the outcome of the elections also revealed that the electorate are protesting against the way and manner PDP handled issues from the primaries which was conducted without recourse to the wishes of the people, why should a party that have a sense of fairness and tolerance impose candidates on the people? Look at what happened in the governorship primaries. I was coming to that, what really happened in the governorship primaries, why did you leave? And do you have any regret leaving? You see, democracy is about people, what I saw in the primaries is the purest form of crude and primitive assassination of the will of the people. Everything was going on fine not until the anointed candidate of Dankwambo, Senator Bayero Nafada who lost APC’s governorship primary election to Inuwa Yahaya in 2015 walked into the venue with some thugs and disrupted the peaceful conduct of the primaries, his thugs destroyed the ballot boxes and papers. As if that was not enough, he ordered the governor to a side room in the venue. Whatever they discussed is not of interest to me, but you have to be there to hear the kind of abusive language and insult coming from Bayero, I mean it is was uncalled for, his desperation for power was obvious. The drama that took place that day left much to be desired in the credibility of the primaries and PDP as a party as it was at that time. On that premise, I left alongside my supporters and to the glory of God the APC candidate we supported and worked for won the election. I have no regret that I left as at the time I left. Gombe: AfDB To Spend $29.54m On Water, Sanitation, Hygiene Many believed that if you were the PDP candidate you would have won the election how do you feel about that and what is your next line of action politically? I believe in providence,. I am not desperate about political power my desire is service to people, some of these issues we can’t talk about them now. One thing I want to assure the people of Gombe state is that the APC government will deliver. All we have to do is to support it. It could be recalled that in the 2019 general elections APC won the Presidential and all the nine national assembly seats, as well as the governorship and 19 out of the 24 State House of Assembly seats. About two of the seats won by PDP is shaking and if reclaimed by APC at the courts, PDP may be left with only three seats in the state house of assembly. Even though the 2019 elections was like a sword driven with deep precision into the very soul of PDP in the state, rumours are still making the round that the sitting Governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo traded and compromised the changes of PDP for his ambition of becoming the next CBN Governor. DPR Expresses Concern Over Death Of 20 Tanker Drivers In Gombe Accident