According to a report from the Chronicle Live, Newcastle United are interested in SPAL defender Francesco Vicari. The Italian defender, 24, starred in SPAL’s promotion to the Serie A last year. Last season, SPAL narrowly avoided relegation, finishing 17th in the Serie A table. He was instrumental in helping the club maintain the Serie A status last season and has been rock-solid at the back this campaign as well, managing 26 appearances. The 24-year-old’s strong performances for SPAL are believed to have caught the attention of Newcastle, who finished the 2018/19 season 13th in the table. In fact, the Magpies were keen to sign Francesco Vicari in the January transfer window itself, but a move didn’t materialise. As Rafael Benitez’s men have avoided relegation for another season, it’s time for the club to spend big and Vicari has to be one of the additions in the summer transfer window. Despite maintaining a defensive shape throughout the season, Benitez’s men were shaky at the back and conceded 48 goals. In Jamaal Lascelles, Florian Lejeune, Federico Fernandes, Ciaran Clark, Fabian Schar and Paul Dummett, the Magpies have a tight defensive unit. Yet, they have leaked goals and Benitez needs to sort out his defence ahead of the new campaign. Lascelles endured a poor 2018/19 season according to the standards he set last year, while injuries have hampered Lejeune’s progress at Tyneside. Schar has made one the centre-back positions his own, while Fernandes proved to be a reliable squad member. That has seen Clark fall down the pecking order and it won’t be a surprise if he leaves the club in the upcoming transfer window. Interest in Vicari seems that Benitez may actually have his sights set on adding yet another defender to his ranks. And that’ll be a good way to reinforce the squad over the summer if the Toon Army are to aim for finishing in the top half of the table in the next campaign. To Read More Newcastle United News, Click Here:- Latest Newcastle United News In Vicari, Newcastle will get a tall, strong and no-nonsense defender, who can go toe-to-toe with the most physically blessed forwards. A tough tackler, the former Italy U21 international has a decent turn of pace and rarely flusters in pressure situations. He has that physical side to his game which is necessary for the Premier League. Verdict
Vicari can turn out to be a shrewd signing for Newcastle, but the defender might take some time to settle in at the club. Nevertheless, there’s a feeling that the Italian can be a reliable option to have in the squad after he adapts well to the top tier of English football.