Matthijs de Ligt would be a ‘good fit’ for Liverpool and Jurgen Klopp should attempt to sign the Ajax defender ahead of Manchester United and Barcelona, according to Jaap Stam. In a report through metro.co.uk, De Ligt is rated as one of the most talented young defenders in the world and enjoyed a superb season for Ajax, helping the club win the Eredivisie and reach the Champions League semi-finals. The 19-year-old has been linked with a summer move to a number of elite clubs, with Manchester United, Man City and Barcelona all expressing interest in securing his services. Stam insists De Ligt must choose his next club carefully and says the Netherlands international would be an ideal signing for Klopp’s Liverpool. ‘It’s important that he’ll get playing time,’ former defender Stam told DAZN. ‘If you look at the squads: Barcelona, after losing to Liverpool (in the Champions League semi-final), probably wants to strengthen their squad, especially in defence, if you ask me. ‘The question is how they are going to solve that problem. ‘I think that Matthijs de Ligt would be a good fit though. It will be great to see how he performs against better players in a better league, not just every few weeks, but every weekend. ‘The same goes for Liverpool. We all know who is their biggest defensive star – his Dutch colleague (Van Dijk) – the other players, Lovren and Matip, rotate quite a lot.’ Liverpool are enjoying an impressive season, finishing one point behind Premier League champions Manchester City and progressing to a successive Champions League final. But Anfield legend Phil Thompson believes Klopp needs to bolster his squad this summer with at least two new signings. He told Sky Sports this week: ‘No matter who you are, you have to strengthen while you are on top. Don’t wait until things go wrong. ‘It was always the way of doing things in our heyday. No matter what we won, we always brought in two players to strengthen and give more options and regenerate the dressing room. ‘If Liverpool can, I would look at a creative midfield player and another striker. ‘Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino are the three, but it’s a case of getting someone in who will be sitting on the bench for most of the season. ‘It’s like in midfield, we have a lot of players who are quite similar. We need someone with a creative spark and to give us more goals from that department. ‘It is hard to find a decent striker who will sit on the bench and that is the problem Klopp will have. ‘The squad is relatively young which is good and have at least another five years together so we look as though we are in a good position.’   