Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ASABA – The struggle for the position of Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly has divided the lawmakers and is causing apprehension in the state. The undercurrent is currently under contention between the embattled Speaker, Sheriff Oborevwori, Hon Erhiatake Ibori-Suenu, Hon Reuben Izeze as well as the Majority Leader, Hon. Tim Owhefere. Presently, the lawmakers are angry and set for each other’s jugular over a whopping sum of N1 billion that ought to accrue to them before the end of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa first tenure but was allegedly diverted. Onuesoke Hails Okowa On Warri/ Uvwie Development Agency Oborevwori’s problem started just as he incurred the wrath of a section of the House following his failure to disclose the accrued sum which is currently causing ripples in the House Dependable sources disclosed that Gover nor Okowa had in August 2018, approved and reversed the monthly subvention to the Assembly to N150M from N100m with effect from January 2018. This may not be unconnected to why a section of the lawmakers are suspecting the Speaker for his roles in the money which was approved by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for the House The allegation may be coming in order to whittle down the Speaker’s power ahead of 2023 since he is said to be nursing Governorship ambition. It was gathered that some members of the House had vowed to impeach the embattled Speaker if Governor Okowa allow him to come back as the Speaker of the House in his second tenure. The faction rooting for his impeachment alleged the Speaker connived with some senior officials of the Assembly to divert the increment, which is about N1bn without the knowledge of other principal officers of the Assemb ly. Before now Urhobo leaders had rejected the Speaker while they make case for female Speaker Gathering under the auspices of Urhobo National Forum (UNF), Chairman, UNF, Chief Matthew Odiete said the meeting unanimously approved the member representing Ethiope West as the next Speaker of the Assembly. The leaders urged the members of the assembly to vote against the current Presiding Officer of the House in June. They spoke about the need for new leadership in the Delta State House of Assembly, describing the current Speaker as a polarising figure, a lame duck and weak communicator. Obule Appeals To Ogboru To Drop Legal Action Against Okowa “Let us do what is good for the collective interests of the Urhobo Na tion “ At the presentation of Urhobo position on the Speakership in Sapele, the leaders praised Chief James Ibori, Chief Ighoyota Amori, Chief Kingsley Esiso and other PDP leaders in Delta Central for contributing greatly towards the party’s electoral fortune in the just concluded elections. “We believe that it ought to be possible for the next Speaker to come from Ethiope Federal Constituency. The current presiding officer of the House cannot aspire to be speaker for another term and neither will any Sapele, Okpe and Uvwie man aspire for the seat immediately after Oborevwori. It will be the turn of the good people of Ethiope Federal Constituency “the leaders sta ted. “We want someone that can navigate the House rules governing votes and floor debates and create a policy and political strategy for the ruling party. We want someone that can re-position the Delta State House of Assembly as a credible arm of gover nment” “The Ethiope West representative has the right resume and what Oborevwori critics are looking for. She will restore public confidence in the Delta State House of Assembly. They described the member representing Ethiope West as a legislative tactician”. “The Chairman, House Committee on Appropriation has the political skills, policy grasp and work ethic to manage the Delta State House of Assembly. She knows how money gets appropriated and to to get things done” They spoke highly of her competency and the need for her to tak e the g avel. “The Ethiope West representative has not only become a pride for us in Urhobo land but a model for the entire black race and a leader whom the people are watching out for as the Governor of Delta State in the future “ The leaders argued that if the likes of the current Speaker were the only qualified people to lead the Delta State House of Assembly, then Delta State should not nurse any hope of moving from its present stage of development” “How do we improve the living conditions of our people through legislation? How do we ensure that the infrastructure that will enable the people have gainful employment is provided? How do we ensure that proper health care is provided for our people? How do we ensure that our children go to school? How do we ensure that they have roofs over their heads? How do we ensure that there is food on the table for the average Deltan? The member representing Ethiope West knows the needs of the members and the sta te “ The leaders said they had designed strategies for the Ethiope West lawmaker to become speaker in June. The Ethiope West representative will stay faithful to the call and responsibilities. We expect robust relationship with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. She will never violate due process “ the leaders added.  Other top PDP Chieftain from Ughelli South also spoke on the need for a change in the new leadership of the Assembly, describing the current Speaker as inaccessible . They want the house to consider Reuben Yakubu Izeze as the New Speaker for the collective interests of Delta State. “Izeze has pay his dues and ought to be considered for the next Speaker from Ughelli and Udu Federal Constituency. Reuben is very intelligent , sincerity has been his watchword and a good communicator, loved by his people”, a very focused young man and we’ll organized” “The presentation of Reuben Izeze as the Ughelli South position on the Speakership in the DTHA is because Ughelli South young and old have contributed greatly to the victory of PDP in the just concluded general elections” There is need to change the current speaker of the House for equity and fairness in the game of play. We believed for a total Change of leadership in DTHA. It is now the turn of Ughelli South to be speak er”. “ Izeze have learnt the house rules gover ning votes and floor debates and create a policy and political strategy for the ruling party. We want someone that can reposition the Delta State House of Assembly as a credible arm of government”. “Izeze will restore public confidence to the Delta State House of Assembly ” the lost glory during the era of Igbuya and the current speaker setback will be restore in no distance time if given the speakership position. Because it takes good courage to do what Reuben Izeze has done so far and he is a young man that is very appreciative and thankful for any assistance given to him with a listening ear” “Izeze is a visionary with both Western and native wisdom. He is a political raising sun in Ughelli South, judging from his humble and flexible, focused political style have endears us to support his candidature for the Speakership position” they said. A’Ibom Assembly Crisis: PDP Floors APC In Court