KANO – Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State on Saturday presented  symbolic letters of appointments to four new emirs despite court order ordering status quo. In a brief but colourful ceremony which held at Indoor Sports Hall of Sani Abacha stadium, Kano, Ganduje declared that the appointment and installation of new emirs as stipulated by law is irreversible. Those appointed to head the new 4 Emirates include; Aminu Ado-Bayero, son to late Ado Bayero as emir of Bichi,  Ibrahim Abubakar, emir of Karaye, Ibrahim Abdulkadir, emir of Gaya and Tafida Ila, emir of Rano. Ganduje said despite planned protest by those against the installation of the emirs, “the law had come to stay forever and ever. “ He noted that any violent reaction against the new law would not augur well in the state, calling on the residents to exercise restraint to allow peace and tranquility to in the state. Ganduje explained that the idea behind the breakup of the central emirate was to reduce the burden of development agenda of the state to four others emirate councils for effective delivery. He tasked the new emirs to participate actively in the area of education, security and agricultural development in the state. “These four emirate councils existed for many centuries ago. We deemed it wise to revive them in order to fast-track our development agenda. “I charge these emirs to develop interest in the education development, agriculture and security. We want to see you going house to house to ensure every child go to school. “We want to see you participating in the fight against insecurity because you are familiar with strangers that enter your town. You will know new faces that enter your towns and know how to tackle the security in your areas,” he said Ganduje therefore urged all the emirs to work harmoniously towards the development of the state. Aminu Ado Bayero  in his acceptance speech thanked the governor for what he described “historic appointment”, as he restated commitment toward working in tandem to fight drug abuse, insecurity and bring about even development in the state.