Comrade Chidiebere Okoh, a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) and Deputy President, Informal Sector at Nigerian Ports, in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU barred on the controversy over the Eighth National Assembly leadership, 2023 Presidency among others. Excerpt: What is your view on the struggle for leaderships of the Eighth National Assembly? I don’t want to say that Ndigbo are marginalised. In the first term of President Muhammadu Buhari administration, the people of South East did not feature well in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) government because the region did not support its emergence. But, this time around, the region strongly supported the government. So, fairness and equity demand that APC should cede the position of Deputy Senate President to the zone. Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, former Abia State governor, encouraged several people in the region to vote for Buhari and other candidates of the party. APC should let him have that slot to show that it appreciates our contribution. Kalu put his time and money into all the elections. He made people us to be on our toes marketing the party in all nooks and crannies of the region. Today, APC is a household name in South East.  I know that Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, National Leader of our party and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole are seasoned politicians. They do not practice tribal or ethnic politics. I am sure they will support right decisions concerning the region. Everyone in South East saw how Kalu worked very hard for the APC victory. His name made a lot of people disabuse their minds about APC. What is your take on the alleged aspiration of Sen. Oluremi Tinubu for Deputy Senate President position? No, I don’t think that would be possible. It cannot work. If Gbajabiamila is aspiring to become the House Speaker and Prof. Yemi Osinbajo is the Vice President, how would Oluremi Tinubu, also from the same region, want to become the Deputy Senate President? Tinubu would not even support that. Orji Kanu is best suited for that position. He brought many people to the party. APC should not deny him that. You just said that APC has not marginalised the South East region. How do you see the speculated interest of the North for presidency in 2023, even when Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, APC National Leader from the South West has shown interest in the position? Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, our leader, aspired to get to the level of Awolowo. However, I will appeal to all regions to support South East to produce a president in 2023. It is just and fair to do that for peace and unity. Tinubu, as a man of peace, loves the unity of this nation. He will do what will promote our corporate existence. The South West did eight years through Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. The South South had its turn during Jonathan’s regime and the North will complete its eight years when Buhari would have finished his second term in 2023. Why will anyone be talking of returning the presidency to the North or West in 2023? I don’t want to believe that Tinubu has shown interest. As a great leader, he must leave a legacy that everyone would be proud of. It is a flimsy to say that Ndigbo are not united and you deny us our right, but it is not true. Igbo people are as united as never before. They should allow us have what rightly belongs to us and see how good the Igbo man will fix things. I know that other regions would support Ndigbo when the time comes. How do you see the allegation that the APC leadership, in an effort to ensure the continued marginalisation of Ndigbo, connived with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to deny Rochas Okorocha, Imo State governor, his certificate of return as Senator-elect? Okorocah is the architect of his misfortune. He would have sacrificed the aspiration of his son in-law, work for the APC to retain the state governorship. But, because of selfish interest, he made the party to lose the state to the opposition. How do you think that the party will be happy with him? He cost APC the state. Now that he is downing, he wants the party to help him. Okorocha did not behave like a smart politician. You can’t get everything all the time. If you were aspiring to become a senator and another person emerged as your party’s governorship candidate, why would you not support your party? You don’t allow your personal interest to be above the general or party interest. It does not pay off most times. The governor shot himself in the leg. If I was in his position, I would have concentrated on my aspiration to go to senate and allow Imo people decide who would be their governor under the APC umbrella. Okorocha has continued to accuse Adams Oshiomhole, APC national chairman, as the brain behind his problem. Are you saying that INEC connived with APC to work against him? No, I have not said so. It was not Adams Oshiomhole that denied him the certificate. The returning officer told the public that he announced the result under duress. The matter is in court. So, let the court decide his fate. It is not about South East. When something happens sometimes, people would tend to give it a tribal and ethnic colouration to suit them. It is believed that APC leaders like Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, have not been allowed to make contributions to the list of Buhari’s new ministers. How do you see the development? Comrade Oshiomhole could be very overbearing. See how he emerged as the APC national chairman. He was tending towards desperation. Oshiomhole should take it easy. Tinubu has always had input in nomination of people from the South West. But, Buhari decides to do otherwise, as the president, he has the prerogative to do what he thinks is in the national interest. There is Federal Character formula in the choice of ministers, as far as all the regions are carried along and competent people are chosen. Some of the ministers did not perform well. I am sure Mr. President wants to take his time to choose the right people. You said some ministers did not perform well. Are there those you want retained for their exceptional performance? Hadi Sirika, Minister of State for Aviation did creditably well. He has rehabilitated the airport within six months. He was trying to restructure the airports for ease of operation. He oversees the activities at the airport solely. Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transport and Aviation has no hand in what is happening at the Aviation sector. Sirika is doing a great job there and should be returned. Apart from Hadi Sirika which other ministers do you think Buhari, should retain, we heard Babatunde Fashola and Lai Mohammed made the list? I don’t think Lai Mohammed deserves to make the list. He is not marketing Buhari well. Buhari needs a good Public Relations Officer (PRO) that can market him well. There are many things Buhari did that people are not aware of. Lai Mohammed only comes out to abuse those who abused Buhari or criticised the government. He should talk about things that the government has done which many may not be aware of Why has Buhari, who has been against restructuring suddenly made a u-turn on True Federalism as a way of unifying the nation? This is his last term and he would want to do things that he had not done in the first term. He can decide to do anything now because there won’t be a third term. So, even those who would be hurt by his decision may not matter to him as long as he pleases the generality of Nigerians. If he has promised true federalism, I am sure that he would deliver. But, I don’t think it is the kind of restructuring being advocated by Atiku Abubakar and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Buhari, I must tell you, would leave a good legacy for posterity.