If reports are to be believed, Jadon Sancho is interested in joining Manchester United this summer, manchestereveningnews.co.uk has reported. But before fans get too excited, those same reports say Sancho, one of England’s most exciting prospects, is reluctant to join a club that will not be playing Champions League football next season. If that is the biggest factor for Sancho, then United have almost no chance of securing a player they are said to be ready to spend £100m on. But if there is room for persuasion, then United’s greatest card is to make Sancho the figurehead of a new era at Old Trafford. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has indicated he wants young, English players who understand the values of playing for Manchester United at the club. Sancho could fit that description, and Solskjaer will surely be watching England’s Nations League campaign with interest. And with Jesse Lingard and Marcus Rashford in the England squad, there could be a glimmer of hope for their pursuit of Sancho. The two Mancunians have been vocal since the end of the season in sharing Solskjaer’s views for how United should play after a disappointing season. Lingard first apologised to fans, saying: “We continue fighting through the ups and downs no matter what, thank you to everyone’s support this season i know its been tough and i’m sorry but we go again and we rebuild.” Rashford posted: “Next season we need to get back to how @manchesterunited play, for me that’s most important. We need to find that willingness and respond the right way.” Now it is time for them to put their money where their mouths are as they spend three weeks with Sancho in the England camp. They have time to sell the club to Sancho, explain what it means to play for United, put to rest any doubts he may have. United cannot offer Champions League football next season, but they can offer a long term vision that is led by Solskjaer and carried out by the likes of Lingard and Rashford on and off the pitch. The phrase ‘United DNA’ has perhaps been overused this season, but when United’s two homegrown England stars join up with the Three Lions, it could well be that the United DNA helps lure a player like Jadon Sancho.   