Lagos – President Muhammadu Buhari may in the coming days meet with some key contenders for the position of Senate President in the 9th National Assembly for talks on the need to respect the position of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and present a united front, Daily Independent has learnt. National Assembly Bosses The president, the national leadership of the party as well as key stakeholders, such as Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, have endorsed Senator Ahmad Lawan, the incumbent Majority Leader of the Senate for the position. The party also endorsed Femi Gbajabiamila for the position of the speaker of the House of Representatives. However, some APC senators such as Danjuma Goje and Ali Ndume have kicked against the micro-zoning arrangement vowing to contest despite appeals to them by concerned stakeholders. It was also reported that following the tension created by the struggle for the seat, some APC leaders have met with Goje on the need to respect the wishes of the president and the APC. On the delegation to Goje were Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti State), Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara State), ex-Sokoto State Governor Aliyu Wammako and a former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, and ex-Governor Adamu Aliero. The Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, is also believed to have met with Goje. Goje reportedly told the delegation that he would like “to hear from the president what he wants me to do”. 2019 Budget: National Assembly Approves N160bn For Minimum Wage Increase, Others It was gathered that the governors and ex-governors may facilitate another meeting between the president and Goje after the end of Buhari’s private visit to London. According to a source, who spoke in confidence, the meeting with Goje was aimed at “having a united APC during the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly in June”. The source said: “The delegation met with Goje to persuade him to go along with the decision of the president and the directive of the party. We do not want a repeat of the 2015 episode. “It was also made clear at the meeting that the president does not have any personal relationship with Lawan. He only considered Lawan’s impeccable credentials and legislative experience to recommend him to senators-elect. “Goje has one or two observations which can be amicably resolved at all levels in a win-win situation. We are working on these issues.” Asked of Goje’s response, the source quoted him as saying: ‘I want to hear directly from the president what he wants me to do and I will then decide.’ “We have conveyed Goje’s sole demand to the president. We are hopeful that when the president returns, he will meet with the senator. “But the Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, has also met with Goje on the intrigues over the 9th Senate leadership.” Speaking with Daily Independent, a credible source in the party said President Buhari will not want the mistakes of 2015 to repeat itself and may be willing to meet with the contenders if that will address the issue. “Yes, unlike in 2015 when people accused him of indifference, the president through his actions now has shown that he is very much interested in the positions of the leadership of the National Assembly so as to have a legislature that is in synergy with the executive in the next dispensation. “If the resolution is that he should meet with the aggrieved stakeholders and pacify them to accept the position of the party, I don’t think he will object to that. He may meet them very soon”, he said. In a related development, the Lagos State chapter of the APC on Wednesday said it has not given up on its resolve that Senator Oluremi Tinubu should become the Deputy Senate President in the 9th National Assembly. Tinubu Opposes Wife’s Bid For Deputy Senate Presidency Speaking in a chat with Daily Independent, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, Chairman of the Elders Forum of the APC in Lagos, said they believed that Senator Tinubu has performed creditably well since her election into the National Assembly eight years ago to represent Lagos Central senatorial district. He, however, said as loyal party members, they will abide by the zoning arrangement of the party leadership. “We are talking about competence, we are convinced that our senator, Oluremi Tinubu, was by all standards qualified to be the Deputy President of the Senate.  She has served loyally and diligently as a member of the Senate and as a member of the various committees. “She has also performed creditably well as to her responsibilities to her constituents. She has been very excellent and we are very proud of her. So, in consideration of all these, that is why we resolved that she should be given a higher position with much responsibility so that she can serve the Nigerian people better. Senate Presidency: Buhari Silence And Borno Elders Intervention