Lagos – The police in Katsina State have confirmed the killing of 10 persons by bandits at Gobirawa and Sabawa villages in Safana Local Government Area of the state. Police Arrest Serial Killer Of 38 Victims This is contained in a statement issued by the command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Gambo Isah, on Wednesday in Katsina. He said that the bandits came on about 150 motorcycles about 6.10p.m on Tuesday, and attacked the two communities. Isah also said that the bandits rustled a number of animals and took away other valuables after killing the innocent persons. He revealed that the command immediately dispatched police patrol teams to the affected communities, engaged the hoodlums in gun duel and chased them away. According to him, the police are making efforts to arrest the hoodlums. “We will do everything possible to bring the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice and bringing to an end the activities of these rascals”, he said. IGP Redeploys Kaduna CP As part of efforts at rejigging the fight against armed banditry, kidnapping and other sundry crimes across the nation, particularly in Kaduna and other contiguous states, Mohammed Adamu, Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), has ordered the immediate redeployment of the Commissioner of Police in charge of Kaduna State, Ahmed Abdulrahaman, to the Force Intelligence Bureau, Abuja. Police Boss Arrests Officers For Extortion A statement by the Force spokesman, Frank Mba, a Deputy Commissioner of Police, on Wednesday in Abuja, said Aji Janga would take over as the commissioner in Kaduna. Janga was until now the commissioner of police in charge of Bauchi State command. Mba said that other commissioners affected by the exercise are: Habu Ahmadu, former commissioner in charge of Intelligence, who is now posted to Bauchi command; Omololu Bishi is redeployed from Benue command to the Central Criminal Registry (CCR), Alagbon Lagos. Mukadas Garba moves from the Office of the National Security Adviser to Benue command while the erstwhile commissioner in charge of CCR Alagbon, Lagos has now been moved to the Force Headquarters, Abuja, to be in charge of armament. Mba said the IGP charged the newly posted and redeployed officers and other strategic commanders nationwide, to take initiative and implement concrete crime prevention strategies. How We Killed Four Police Officers, Pregnant Woman – Suspects