Lagos – On Tuesday, May 28, 2019, the first four-year tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari will come to an end and the second tenure of another four years will start the following day. Reflecting on the performance of the country in sports in the last four years of PMB, one could say that it has been a mixed blessing as the country recorded ups and downs in the major sporting competitions her athletes participated in with most of the blames hinged on the Sports Minister, Barrister Solomon Dalung’s lack of foresight as well as a paucity of funds to help develop the sports from the grassroots. Out of the over 26 sporting federations in the country, mention can be made of at least seven that helped to bring honours to the country through one major competition or the other. Sports Minister There is no how one will be reflecting on the first tenure of four years of PMB as it affects sports without mentioning the roles played by Dalung. That Dalung remains in office as Minister of Youth and Sports Development till these dying hours of PMB first tenure of four years remains a mystery. Many believed that Nigerian sports have never had it so bad in terms of governance like we witnessed it under Dalung, reeling from one controversy to the other. Dalung is leaving sports worse off than he met it. Some of the crises he created in some of the national sports federation are festering and going to outlive his tenure. Interestingly, of all the problems in Nigerian sports, what first caught the fancy of Dalung was the power tussle between his kinsman, Christopher Giwa and Amaju Melvin Pinnick. He went neck deep involved in trying to ‘settle’ the leadership tussle in the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) board despite world football governing body, FIFA recognising the September 30 elections in Warri that ushered Pinnick into office. Even as a lawyer, Dalung refused to accept that the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS) in Switzerland (the supreme court of sports affairs, globally) had previously thrown out Giwa’s appeal. Dalung instead stood on the side of Giwa, claiming he had a Supreme Court judgment pronouncing him the duly elected president of the NFF board. He insisted that as a lawyer who swore to uphold the constitution, CAS ruling (in Switzerland) cannot be superior to Nigerian laws. The crisis reached a boiling point when policemen were deployed to seal the NFF headquarters in Wuse Zone 6 Area of Abuja in order to prevent the breakdown of law and order at the Glass House. The matter dragged on till the end of the tenure of that board late last year before another election gave Pinnick a second term mandate.  In between, it took the intervention of the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (Mr. President was on vacation at the time) for Nigeria to escape a FIFA ban that would have prevented the country from participating at the last World Cup in Russia and other sundry competitions our national teams participated in under the Dalung watch. Rather than being remorseful for the role he played in the crisis, the Plateau man went on the comical lane of inferring that there was no point Super Eagles going to Russia for the World Cup as the team was not capable of winning the trophy. Of course the rot in Nigerian sport had started festering before Dalung took charge, it is on record that all the moves made by his predecessor to turn around Nigeria’s fortunes in global sports fiestas were jettisoned. Football Did we fare better in the football event at the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil after returning from London 2012 Olympics with no medal? The matter is better left to sports historians to determine the place of Dalung in Nigeria’s sport chronicle as the longest serving sports minister to date. The lone bronze won by the John Mikel Obi-inspired Under-23 Dream Team IV was the result of the ‘never say die’ Nigerian spirit of the boys under Samson Siasia’s watch. All that transpired in Atlanta when the team went on training tour but was abandoned by Dalung’s ministry remains very fresh in the minds of football followers in the land and beyond. The shame and angst caused by the total neglect of the team despite the fact that there was a vote for Team Nigeria’s training and participation at Rio 2016 is also a sore point of Dalung’s tenure. The Super Eagles failed to qualify for the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) and at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia, against all expectations, the team crashed out at the group stage losing to Croatia and Argentina but defeated Iceland. Thank God there was no crisis as regards match allowances as was the case during the 2014 edition. Anyone who listened to Dalung saying that training was not necessary for Team Nigeria to do well at competitions will not be astounded by his lack of understanding as to how the system works. “The disabled athletes have shown that all you need is a winning mentality and not too much preparation. They trained under the same condition with their able bodied counterparts but they are winning medals now.” This statement was the height of the cluelessness of the man saddled with running the country’s sports. Twice, the Super Falcons won the Africa Women’s Cup of Nations (AWCON) without any serious input from his office. The first time the girls had to resort to embarrassing protest to draw attention to their plight. Early this month, the Super Falcons also clinched the second edition of the West Africa Football Union (WAFU) Women’s Cup in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, an improvement on their performance at the 2018 edition where they won the bronze medal. The standard of the country’s league was brought to the forefront when the country’s representatives at the continental level all fell by the way side.  This shows that the league is really in deplorable shape with the performances of the teams. However, the feat achieved by Enyimba FC couple with the efforts of Lobi Stars and Rangers International garnered points for the country which made the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) to increase the country’s slots at the next continental assignments. Sports Federations Elections In spite of his initiative in a new democratisation of sports federations elections where government nominees were canceled to pave way for level-playing ground, Dalung, a self-acclaimed expert in conflict resolution, succeeded largely in creating conflicts in the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), Nigeria Gymnastic Federation, the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), the Nigeria Rugby Football Federation (NRFF) and of course, the conflagration that enveloped the National Youth Council (NYC) is well documented. It is thus on record that it is during the tenure of the conflict resolution expert that sports federations and other departments under his ministry have parallel leaderships. Perhaps, if reason did not prevail over sentiment to allow world basketball body, FIBA to intervene in the crisis in NBBF and allow our teams to continue to participate in their competitions, Dalung will not have the AFROBASKET male and female crowns he’s flaunting as part of his achievements today. Although feeble attempts were made in ensuring a return to youth competitions to ensure steady flow of talents to take over from the present generation, the overall ranking for Dalung is a below average performance. Poor funding of the sector by the federal government may have also contributed to the poor showing of the minister. His governance style did more harm than good to sports in Nigeria in the last four years. Athletics There was little to write home about in athletics as the country failed woefully to win any medal at the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The woeful performance continued as the athletes also failed to win any medal at the World Athletic Championships in 2017 in London. To worsen situation, all results recorded at the Asaba Championships last year    were nullified by the authorities due to use of sub-standard facilities which might have aided some of the results recorded. However, at the 2018 Commonwealth Games, Oluwatobiloba Amusan put her name and that of the country on the medals table when she won the gold medal in the Women’s 100 m Hurdles on April 13. Same date, Suwaibidu Galadima followed her feat when he won the country’s second gold medal in the sport in the Men’s 100 m T47. The following day, April 14, the quartet of Yinka Ajayi, Patience Okon George, Praise Idamadudu and Glory Onome Nathaniel won the silver medal for the country in the Women’s 4 x 400m Relay event. The quartet of Oluwatobiloba Amusan, Rosemary Chukwuma, Blessing Okagbare-Ighoteguonor and Joy Udo-Gabriel managed to win the bronze medal for the country in the women’s 4 x 100m Relay event. Powerlifting The greatest achievements of the country was in the Powerlifting  sport when the country participated with six athletes (3 men and 3 women) with all of them winning medals for the country. Roland Ezuruike won gold medal for the country in the Men’s lightweight event with 224.3points while Abdulazeez Ibrahim won the second gold medal for the country in the Men’s heavyweight event with 191.9 points while Esther Oyema won the gold medal in the Women’s lightweight event with 141.6 points beating fellow Nigerian, Lucy Ejike to win the silver medal with 134.1 points. Ndidi Nwosu won the last gold medal for the country in the sport with her points of 110.4 in the Women’s heavyweight event while the country’s second silver medal was won by Paul Kehinde in the Men’s lightweight event with a point of 219.9. Kehinde lost the gold medal to fellow Nigerian, Ezuruiike. Wrestling Team Nigeria at the 2018 Commonwealth Games held in the Gold Coast, Australia from April 4 to 15, 2018 tried their best as they were able to clinch three gold, three silver and one bronze medals. Team Nigeria won a total of 21 medals to top the medals table at the 2018 African Senior Wrestling Championships held at the Alfred Diete-Spiff Civic Centre, Port Harcourt from February 7 to 11. The medals comprised nine gold, five silver and seven bronze. In the women category, the team won 10 medal- six gold, two silver and two bronze – while men have 11 medals of three gold, three silver and five bronze. As hosts, Nigeria paraded 90 athletes at the championship in Port Harcourt, featuring a wrestler in all the weight classes’ at the cadet, junior and senior levels. At this year’s edition of the championship held in Hammamet, Tunisia, Team Nigeria wrestlers lived up to expectations. Odunayo Adekuoroye was crowned the best female wrestler at the Championships which was a qualifier for the World Championships in Kazakhstan in September 2019. Adekuoroye was named the best female wrestler after her impressive showing on her way to successfully defending the gold medal she won in Port Harcourt in 2018. The 2017 world silver medalist and back-to-back Commonwealth champion made light work of her Cameroonian opponent Esoombe Tiako. She won their 57kg final in just 29 seconds via pin fall to record her fifth African title. On her way to the final, Adekuoroye overpowered Jeannette Sambou of Senegal 4-0 via pin fall, before taking out Chaimaa Aouissi of Algeria 12-0 via technical superiority to move into the semi-finals. In the last four, she also recorded another superiority win, outclassing home favourite Dorssaf Gharssi 10-0. The 25-year-old’s award crowned a great day for Team Nigeria who emerged overall winners of women’s wrestling at the championships with five gold, two silver and two bronze medals. Other Nigerian women winners at the tournament are Hannah Reuben (72kg) and Aminat Adeniyi (62kg), with Rosemary Nweke (53kg) and Ifeoma Nwoye (59kg) accounting for the two bronze medals. In the men’s championship, Emmanuel Nworie in the 72kg category lost his African title, as he settled for a bronze medal after beating Tunisia’s Lamjed Maafi 10-9 in the third-place match. Overall, Team Nigeria won the women’s championship with 195 points ahead of second-placed Tunisia with 177 points, while Egypt finished third with 160 points. This marks the third year in a row that Nigeria is winning the women’s title at the African Wrestling Championships and President of the Nigeria Wrestling Federation (NWF) Hon. Daniel Igali promised that with encouragements, the wrestlers would do more for the country. Table Tennis Aruna Quadri is no doubt Nigeria’s top table tennis player and he continues to drive the country’s name in the sport especially in the last four years. He competed for Nigeria at the 2016 Summer Olympics, reaching the quarterfinals in the competition. Aruna competed for his Nigeria alongside Segun Toriola and Bode Abiodun at the 2016 Summer Olympics. The team seeded against Team China in the first round, in which Aruna played and was defeated by Ma long (1-3). The team dropped all three matches to China and were eliminated (0-3). In the 2017 ITTF World Challenge Bulgaria Open he advanced to the semifinals where he was defeated in a tight match by eventual winner, Dimitrij Ovtcharov. He competed in the 2017 ITTF African-Cup, qualifying for the quarterfinals where he defeated Algerias Naim Karali (4-1). In the semifinals, he defeated Egyptian player Mohamed El-beiali (4-3), qualifying for the finals. In the Finals, he played and defeated long-time rival, Omar Assar in a close match (4-3). Aruna won the event, and become the 2017 African-Cup Champion. At the 2017 World Table Tennis Championships, Aruna competed seeded as number 30. He defeated Chilean player Gustavo Gómez (4-0). He was defeated in the second round by Danish player and number 34 seed, Jonathan Groth. Aruna competed in the 2018 ITTF African-Cup, placing first in group 2, allowing him to qualify for the Quarter Finals. In the quarterfinals, Aruna defeated Derek Abrefa (4-0). In the semifinals, he defeated Ahmed Saleh (4-1), allowing him to advance to the finals of the African-Cup. Aruna reached his greatest height with a silver medal at the 2018 Commonwealth Games to the delight of Nigerians at the venue of the competition. Aruna alongside Bode Abiodun, Azeez Jamiu, Olajide Omotayo and Segun Toriola won the silver medal for Nigeria at the Men’s Team event of the 2018 Commonwealth Games. Faith Obazuaye also won silver medal for Nigeria at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in the TT6-10 to bring the country’s medals to three silver at the Commonwealth Games. The 2018 African-Cup Finals featured two of the only African players within the top 50 of the ITTF World Rankings, 2015 and 2016 Champion Omar Assar against reigning 2017 Champion Aruna. Assar, seeking retribution for 2017 defeat, played a very aggressive attacking game, winning the first two games with close scores, (10-12 and 8-11). The third game entailed a dominant performance from Aruna, attacking Assar relentlessly (11-3). In the fourth game, Assar targeted Aruna’s deep forehand forcing Aruna to play much more uncomfortably than the previous games, though Assar lost some points in an earnest attempt to end rallies early. Assar took the game (11-13). Aruna won the following two games (11-9 and 11-6), tying the two up 3-3. In the final game, Assar took an early lead 3-7, following a few well placed shots and missed attacks from Aruna. Aruna rallied back into an 8-10 deficit, before losing the final point on a failed forehand loop (3-4). The loss placed Aruna Second in the 2018 African-Cup. In 2014, Aruna was ranked number 30 in world table tennis, and the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) named him the Star Player of the year. His peak world ranking was 25, which he held from September 2016- January 2017. Currently he is ranked 27th in the ITTF male world rankings. Apart from Aruna, other players that continue to do the nation proud in the sport include veteran Segun Toriola, Monday Merotohun, Olufunke Oshonaike, to mention but few. Basketball In spite of the crisis that engulfed the NBBF, the women’s national team D’Tigeress won their third Africa Nations Cup in 2017 and reached the quarterfinals at the World Championship, the best so far achieved by any African team. On the other hand, their male counterparts, D’Tigers won the silver medal at the 2017 Nations Cup in Tunisia and became the 16th African team to qualify for the 2019 World Cup in China. On the home front, there was nothing to write about as the league was in coma, no thanks to the fallout of the sports federation elections. Apart from these, there was no grassroots basketball development programme that would help to nurture and discover hidden talents that would take over from the present crop of players in the national teams. Boxing There was little to write about in boxing apart from the two bronze medals won Yetunde Odunuga in the Women’s -60kg event and Millicent Agboegbulem in the Women’s −75 kg event at the 2018 Commonwealth Games. However, the sport is getting the best of followership and sponsorship on the home front with the regular GOtv Boxing Nights of Champions with the championship being held several times in Lagos and in Ibadan. And with the country having to participate in some major international events this year, starting from the FIFA Under-20 World Cup which kicked off in Poland on Thursday, an urgent and timely action should be taken to redeem the country’s sporting activities. Three other competitions, the 2019 Africa Beach Soccer in Cape Verde, and the FIFA Women’s World Cup in France, will take place in June as well as the continent’s version of the FIFA World Cup – the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) billed for Egypt. There is also the 12th All-Africa Games, which will be hosted by Morocco in Rabat from August 19 to 31. It is indeed a huge tragedy that Dalung would in time to come leave the sports industry where he has the singular record of being the longest serving minister with nothing to show.  Leadership is beyond grandstanding, irreverent talks and abuse of authority which have all combined to be the style of Dalung.