Dr. Benjamin Aboho is former House of Representatives member representing Kwande /Ushongo federal constituency and African Democratic Congress (ADC) senatorial candidate for Benue North East in the 2019 election.  In this interview with JOSEPH UNDU, he spoke on some of the lapses he observed in the last elections, among other issues. Excerpt; How would you assess the conduct of the last general elections, especially in Benue State? I don’t want to assess the election because I didn’t win. I thank God, there was no violence. In terms of manipulations, many things happened.  There was a lot of vote buying. This was the principal thing, especially emanating from the prominent parties, the APC and PDP who bought the highest number of votes in the state. I thank God the elections were peaceful. Are you considering challenging the victory of your opponent, Dr. Gabriel Suswuam? I am not challenging any victory. I hardly think about challenging my opponent’s victory because I believe victory comes from God. If it were God’s wish that I won, many things would have happened in my favour. Maybe, there would have been no vote buying. Things would have been normal. But, when those things happened, as a Christian, I said God permitted them. If God did not permit anything, it would not happen. There is no need wasting my time to pursue an exercise that I know will not achieve any purpose. Would you say you were rigged out? I was not rigged out. The whole system was rigged, including those who bought votes, we were all rigged out. Under normal circumstances, what took place wouldn’t have taken place. When you are really talking about rigging, it is like, may seem as if somebody carried the voting materials to vote somewhere, or somebody has manipulated figures. I don’t think figures were manipulated. There was a lot of vote buying. Some people voluntarily gave out their votes for money. So, I cannot define it as rigging in the real sense of it. What would say INEC should do to improve on the electoral system? I have participated in elections before, but I have never seen this type in my life. INEC should think twice and should go back and look at these things. I have stayed in the United States for a period of six years. I saw elections done or conducted peacefully, without it being volatile. People voted in post office boxes. They went to the post office and post their cards there. They didn’t wait for money to be brought to them before they voted. So, if you are thinking about the presidential system in a way to emulate what America is, they should look at all aspects of it and ask ourselves where are we going and what we want to achieve. So, INEC has a lot to do. I am not accusing them of anything, but they were there when buying of vote were taking place. They had no control anyway. Who would you blame for the lapses in the conduct of the elections? First, the political system allows it. If nothing is done to the citizens and poverty level has reached a certain stage, they will sell their conscience because of little monetary gain. How can somebody wait to be given N300 or N5,000 to vote a candidate he is not interested in, but just because he does not have money to buy bread and has no choice. The political system has made poverty to be. If that is normal, people will say no how I can change my conscience because of N500 or N1000.  I want to look at poverty alleviation which we have been preaching over the years, but have not yet achieved anything. If there is a poverty eradication programme at the national level, what have they achieved all these years? There is a lot of poverty and this has blurred the people’s conscience. In Benue State, it is a double jeopardy. We have a lot of problems. In the past few years, we have conflict with the Fulani. Many people are now refugees. People could not farm. So, the aspect of poverty in Benue State has doubled. I was there when a political party came with a big ‘Ghana most go bag’. People were going there to collect money. Some youths were making jest of me, saying ‘Oga bring something.’ How would you rate President Muhammadu Buhari’s performance since leadership 2015 and what are your expectations in his next level regime? I hardly think about or say anything about Buhari because he is my president. As a former military Head of State, he was my commander. I have known him in person. I pity him. I believe he is somebody who has a vision for this country. He has indicated that earlier. But, it looks like the selection of his cabinet was faulty. You can’t sit there alone as a president in a democratic setting and do everything yourself. You have advisers, you have ministers, and you have other people to advice you on specialist areas. I worked in the presidency before. I was working in the intelligence. Despite that, the president would listen to news and all that. He could not go into other details. We will sit down, harness newspapers, have press cuttings, analyse issues, do these things, make summary, and make daily intelligence reports, weekly reports, and monthly summaries for him to know what is going on. He does not have time to read 20 pages. It will be brief and specific. Not what he wants to hear, but what is happening. Today, people are more concerned about what the boss wants to hear, they are not concerned about issues on ground. They have thrown away the realities. They are just bent on deceiving the system. So, a lot of things are wrong. What is your take on his various empowerment schemes to end poverty? I would wish somebody to analyse this policy of empowerment. Is he empowering? Is he assisting? Is he directing? I have known someone who the empowerment was given to have more girlfriends than he used to have. It is not alleviating his poverty. Empowerment should be geared towards achieving a particular result and be supervised. By the time you get that N30, 000 per month, somebody should be able to say this is what he has done with it. How do you see the widespread insecurity in the country? It is the same thing. The National Security Adviser should be able to sit down and tell Mr. President what is happening. Today, most of the security programmes are hinged on this issue of Boko Haram, which the current president inherited. Then, the issue of Fulani herdsmen, who are his kinsmen. In July 2016, I sent a letter to the President in which I made my suggestions about how this Fulani issue could be solved. But, nothing was heard. The letter was received by the National Security Adviser. They even acknowledged the receipt of it.  By the time you look at this letter even if it is nonsense, there is at least one or two things that this nonsense might do. But, for somebody to just brush aside that because they are not allowing Fulani herdsmen in their place is not correct. There must be something. I said it openly in that letter. The constitution guarantees free movement for any Fulani man or Tiv man. We have a lot of Tiv people in Katsina State, Kano in all these states. So, the Fulani has the right to stay anywhere they like, even in my village. The big question is, does the constitution allow them to destroy my crops? That is the bone of contention.  So, there is the need.  Before then there were negotiations at the local levels. The Tiv people will say look we have our farms here take your cattle away. And they will take them voluntarily without force. This thing was working. I don’t know where something went wrong. Before then, Fulani and Tiv people were good friends. It is no longer so. So, this calls for negotiation, calls for policy review, calls for a lot of things. People are talking about grazing routes. Grazing routes were enshrined in the law during the Sadauna period. By then, I could remember there were less than 10 members in my family. Today, we are talking about 500 and more. So, where in my family land can you allow a big grazing route? It is not possible. So, these are the issues I mentioned in the letter very clearly.