Today, the Honourable Kirsty Duncan, Minister of Science and Sport, announced the Government of Canada will provide up to $4.3 million to Canada Soccer from now into 2020 in preparation for the 2026 FIFA World Cup™. As first announced in March 2018, the Government of Canada strongly supports co-hosting the 2026 FIFA World Cup™ with the United States and Mexico. The funding announced today will provide Canada Soccer with the resources required to adequately plan and inform long-term decisions required to host the 2026 FIFA World Cup™. Held every four years, the FIFA World Cup™ is the Fédération Internationale de Football Association’s (FIFA) most prestigious competition. Co-hosting this international event will provide significant opportunities for the sport community. Our government recognizes the tremendous power and many benefits of sport. The 2026 FIFA World Cup™ will bring people of diverse backgrounds together and help shape our national and cultural identity. It will also provide social, community, cultural and economic benefits to Canadians, as well as strengthen Canada’s image as a leading sport nation. While Canada has never hosted the men’s senior FIFA World Cup™, it has successfully hosted all other FIFA competitions, including the record-setting FIFA Women’s World Cup Canada 2015™. Held in six cities and provinces across Canada, the competition attracted 1.35 million spectators and generated an economic impact of nearly half a billion dollars. The Government of Canada is proud of the investments it makes to support the hosting of international sport events. It will continue to work with the CSA, along with the candidate host cities of Edmonton, Alberta; Montréal, Québec; and Toronto, Ontario as this event presents an important opportunity to support our athletes, communities, economy and international reputation as a leader in sport. Quotes
“Co-hosting the 2026 FIFA World Cup™ is an excellent opportunity for our athletes to inspire Canadians across the country while helping support small- and medium-sized businesses from coast to coast to coast. Our athletes will get the opportunity to showcase their athletic abilities on their home turf, in front of friends and family, and will encourage young athletes to stay active and strive for greatness.”
—The Honourable Kirsty Duncan, Minister of Science and Sport “On behalf of Canada Soccer, we express our sincere appreciation to the Government of Canada for their financial contribution to the transition phase for the co-hosting of the 2026 FIFA World Cup™. From the onset of the bidding process, the Government of Canada has been at the table to support our efforts to secure the bid and now in this next phase we know that the continued collaboration with all levels of government will give us the best opportunity to ensure that Edmonton, Alberta; Montréal, Quebec; and Toronto, Ontario, are all selected as official host cities for the 2026 FIFA World Cup™.”
— Peter Montopoli, General Secretary, Canada Soccer