Powered by RubiQube Ad Network If President Muhammadu Buhari, his administration and his party, the All Progressives Congress, APC, were to be rated by their campaign promises made in the run up to the 2015 election, May 29, 2019 shouldn’t be an inauguration for a fresh four year term for the president, his team and party. Rather, it should be their retirement. But electoral politicking and the act of governance in this part of the world are two different things. In Nigeria, for instance, campaign promises for elected office holders often prove to be like moving targets; where if shooting an elusive partridge proves way too difficult, a hunter might settle for a pheasant lurking in the nearby bush. Mr President in the last four years appears to have settled for some quick wins and low hanging fruits leaving out what was promised to electorate four years ago. But the disappointment of Buhari in not redeeming most of his campaign promises of taming the menace of insecurity; endemic corruption and wastages; and growing the economy away from crude oil dependence may have resulted in what his opponents see as failures; while for those who had high hopes in him, the last four years has been that of intense disappointment. Maybe the last four years was fated to witness the disillusionment given the prevailing development indices at the time APC took over power. There was no doubt that Buhari inherited an economy on the verge of collapse. The economy was badly affected by the sharp fall in crude oil prices which fell from over US$110 in mid-2014 to below US$30 by January 2016. The situation was worsened by the disruption of oil production activities in the Niger Delta. The collapse of oil revenues led to a contraction of the economy, ultimately resulting in the economy falling into recession in the second quarter of 2016. Foreign reserves dropped from $37.33 billion in June 2014 to $28.28 billion in December 2015 and further to $23.81 billion in September 2016. There was declining investor confidence, capital flight and a worsening balance of payments position. Headline inflation rate rose from 9.2 percent in June 2015 to as high as 18.5 percent in December 2016 while the accompanying exchange rate instability saw the value of the Naira plummet in the parallel market, ultimately falling to as low as N520 to the US Dollar. On the national security front, things were not looking good as well. Aside the disruption of oil wells in the Niger Delta which were purely economic sabotage, Boko Haram, principal nemesis of the country’s security architecture, though already confined to the North East borders of the country, were still proving their deadly capabilities. “This was the unfortunate situation we found ourselves in and it was really tough,” explained Udo Odoma, a former senator and minister of Budget and Planning at a press briefing earlier on Tuesday. So what are the gains in the last four years of Buhari’s administration given the situation they found themselves? Going by development in Greece and Venezuela, Nigeria may well be lucky to have an economy at all given the plummet in the economy in 2015 and 2016. Venezuela, also an oil dependent economy with a deeper and bigger oil deposit than Nigeria are yet to exit their own economic crunch nearly four years after. The situation has spilled into its political life, threatening to bring the country down to its knees. Greece, though not an oil producing country, is going through hard times, too, what with debt overhangs forcing the country to introduce bitter pills of reforms. Nigeria appears not to be worse for wears because, as Udoma puts it, “We had to introduce to some tough measures.” The first of the measures was the introduction of an expansionary budget in the 2016 fiscal year called the Budget of Change. The budget was designed to reflate the economy and stimulate business activities. The budget was accompanied by a Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP), which set out a number of initiatives and strategies to boost production and restore growth to the economy. This was followed with the development of a comprehensive Medium-Term Plan – the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), 2017-2020 – with the broad objectives of restoring growth, investing in the people and building a globally competitive economy. “We developed the ERGP through a rigorous process involving wide consultations and intensive engagements with relevant stakeholders,” explained the minister of Budget and Planning. The initiatives had their success, though. From an exchange rate of about N500 to $1, the local currency climbed down, maintaining it at N364. As a result of the measures, the last four years witnessed deliberate policies targeted at growing agriculture and SMEs. Instructively, the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, yanked off 41 items from the official forex window. This created so much hoopla with critics pillorying the choice of such policies. But the move helped bridge the gap in importation and increased local production of the items. The suspended items have been increased to 43 with a promise to suspend more if the need arises in the future. He achieved this by retooling some of the Bank’s intervention windows like the Agriculture Credit Guarantee Scheme (ACGS), the N220billion Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF), Small and Medium Enterprises Credit Guarantee Scheme (SMESCGS). He opened the Investors and Exporters’ Window and Real Sector Support Facility (PSSF) to make forex available for their critical needs. The master stroke intervention policy, the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP), which is in sync with the current regime’s economic diversification programme has not only boosted rice production in Nigeria, but has created jobs and have about 925, 000 rice farmers benefitting from the initiative as at December 2018 and ultimately crashed importation of foreign rice into the country. Added to these are measures taken by federal government to shore up tax, and cut wastages. Currently, tax revenues are up by as much as 150 percent compared to what it was in 2015. This was principally as a result of deliberate efforts at bringing in more taxable activities from the public sector and offshore investments. Federal Inland Revenue Services, FIRS, divested itself of operations that reduces efficiency. It, for instance, created the FCT-FIRS, the nation’s capitals tax unit. While doing that, the federal government invested in critical capital expenditures which increased the country’s infrastructure stock from about 25 percent in 2015 to 30 percent as at 2018 ending. This was seen in constructions in road and railways, principally. There are, however, many who still view Buhari’s last four years as wasted opportunity. As a former military man unlike his predecessor, the expectations were that he would have a handle on growing insecurity in the country. While he was able to tame resurgent Niger Delta crisis to shore up oil production, the same was not achieved in the fight against what appeared to be a waning Boko Haram in the north as at the time he took over power. Rather, the insurgents have mutated into deadlier variants in herdsmen militia crisis; banditry, sacking huge numbers of communities in Zamfara and orchestrating massive abductions for money. Boko Haram itself remained stronger, even managing to form alliance with ISIS, the ultra-terrorism organization which took the combined effort of the US and Russia to stymie in Syria. Described once as ‘Al Qaeda on steroids’, the global terror franchise has, like its predecessor (al Qaeda), linked up with Boko Haram, forming what they now call ISIS in West Africa Province, ISWAP. Under the strain of their activities, the country has managed to post unsavory statistics in peace and development. Currently, Nigeria, even in peace time, is ranked unsafe compared to countries at war like Syria and Iraq. Nigeria currently has the third largest number of Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs. Despite its gains in economy and development, investment advisories continue to harp on negativity in Buhari’s policy outlook and how it is creating disillusionment in the polity. Professor Itse Sagay, SAN. In two recent cases, the Nigerian Judiciary, particularly the Supreme Court as the Apex Court, has taken over the role of electors and denied the real electorate either of their right to vote, or set aside clear, unchallengeable voters’ decisions and handed over victory to the clear looser. In Rivers State, the APC electorate was deprived by the Judiciary of their right to vote.  The result was that the PDP was effectively returned unopposed.  The effect of this is that the PDP not only has a “walk in” Governor, but all the members of the Rivers State House of Assembly, all the members of the National Assembly (Senate and House of Representative) are 100% PDP, in a State where the voting preference of the electorate is about 50:50. In Zamfara State, there was an election in which the APC had a landslide victory over the PDP, in the Governorship, Senate, House of Representatives and House of Assembly elections.  In a decision handed down on Friday, 24th May, 2019, the Supreme Court transferred all the victories of the APC to the PDP.  Thus, the PDP Governorship candidate who lost woefully to the APC candidate was in effect, declared Governor by the Supreme Court.  In other words, the Supreme Court has set aside the decision of the electorate and installed the losers in both the Executive and Legislative Arms of Government in Zamfara State.  The verdict of the electorate has thus been set aside and replaced with that of the Supreme Court. This is the latest bizarre twist in Nigerian Democratic practice. To further bring home the gravity of  the situation in the Governorship election in Zamfara State, the APC candidate scored well over 500,000 votes whilst the PDP candidate scored, just over 100,000 votes.  The APC won all 3 Senate seats in the State, 7 House of Representative seats and 24 State House of Assembly seats.  By this judgment, the landslide APC victories in the Governorship, Senate, House of Representative and State House of Assembly are transferred to the PDP. If the APC primaries were defective, should the electorate be deprived of their democratic and Constitutional rights to vote?  Is the electorate to be punished for the transgressions of party officials?  Should the Judiciary replace the electorate’s decision and install losers in office?  Could the Judiciary not have drawn on the deep recesses of its intellectual capacity, authority and its inexorable commitment to justice, to prevent this undemocratic calamity?  Can the APC officials not be punished, for their lapses without denying the electorate their democratic rights?  Should the Judiciary take over the electoral rights of the electorate?  Is this not a clear case of technical law completely overthrowing justice? Have the members of the Supreme Court not achieved a level of creativity and authority to provide a solution without burying democracy and taking over from the registered voters as the judicial electorate?  If this judgment had been an international one, it could have been described as “shocking the conscience of humanity”.  In this case, it shocks the conscience of Nigerian humanity. In dealing with any case before it, the primary concern of a Judge should be the achievement of justice.  If a mechanical application of the law to facts would result in injustice, then a Court must avoid that course. The correct approach to the adjudicating of matters before a Court was laid down by the Supreme Court itself in 1987, in Engineering Enterprise Contractor of Nigeria v. Attorney-General of Kaduna State [1987] 1 NSCC 601 at 613 in which Eso, JSC representing the views of the Court laid down this historic principle. “One stream that permeates all these decisions and I hold the view that this is a good sign for the administration of justice in this country, is the clear, unadulterated water filled with great concern for the justice of the case.  The signs are now clear that the time has arrived that the concern for justice must be the overriding force and actions of the court.  I am not saying that ex debito Justiciae by itself is a cause of action.  It is to be the basis for the operation of the court, whether in the interpretative jurisdiction or basic attitude towards the examination of a case.” The sum total of the recent decisions of this court is that the court must move away from the era when adjudicatory power of the court was hindered by a constraining adherence to technicalities.  This often results in the loser in a civil case taking home all the laurels while the supposed winner goes home in a worse situation than when he approach the court.” In Aliu Bello v. Attorney-General of Oyo State [1986] 5 NWLR (Pt. 45) 828, the Supreme Court Panel composed of Hon. Justices Chukwudifu Oputa, JSC, Muhammed Bello, JSC, Karibi-Whyte, JSC, Aniagolu, JSC, Coker, JSC, Alfa Belgore, JSC, and Saidi Kawu,JSC, declared as follows: “It was contended that invoking the general principle ubi ius ibi remedium is a clear demonstration that appellants have left the Court at large to devise a remedy.  I have already stated that the writ of summons and the statement of claim sufficiently discloses that the claim can be founded under the Torts Law.  Even if this is not the case, I think the Court has attained a stature in the pursuit of justice that a claimant who has established a recognized injury cannot be turned back on the ground that he has not stated the head of law under which he was seeking a remedy” The key word here is that the Court has attained a stature in the pursuit of JUSTICE to provide a remedy even if one did not already exist. The Court also adopted a statement made by Lord Denning M. R. in Packer v. Packer [1954] P. 15 at p. 22, thus: “What is the argument on the other side?  Only this, that no case has been found in which it had been done before.  That argument does not appeal to me in the least.  If we never do anything which has not been done before, we shall never get anywhere. The law will stand still, whilst the rest of the world goes on and that will be bad for both” In The State v. Gwonto [1983] 1 S.C.N.L.R., 142, this Supreme Court declared thus: “The Court has for some time now laid down as guiding principle that it is more interested in substance than in mere form.  Justice can only be done if the substance of the matter is examined.  Reliance on technicalities leads to injustice.” And in the earlier case of Chinwendu v. Mbamali, [1980] 3-4 S.C., 31, the same Court declared: “Care must be taken always, not to sacrifice justice on the alter of technicalities.  The time is no more when disputes are dealt with rather on technicalities and not on merit.” This general theme of placing justice above technicalities was noticeable in the practice of the Supreme Court right from the early days of the 1979 Constitution.  Thus, in Okeowo v. Migliore, [1979] 11 S.C. 138, Aniagolu, JSC, declared that “the laws of our land enjoin us that while respecting procedural regularity, we must dosubstantial justice, with power to make amendments which we deem fit or not to make as the occasions demands” What these legal giants were saying again and again, is that the Supreme Court is specially endowed with the power and authority to do JUSTICE and to ignore law when it is technical and would create injustice, and to avoid at all cost a mechanical approach to the interpretation of the law. Now, has justice been served in Rivers and Zamfara States?  No!  In one case innocent electorate in their hundreds of thousands were prevented from voting for their party by judicial order.  In Zamfara, where voting took place, the verdict of the electorate was taken away from the victorious party and awarded by the Judiciary to the woeful losers.  In the next four years, Zamfara State will be governed by a party and politicians rejected by the electorate.  This indeed shocks the conscience of Nigerian humanity. I have so far omitted a discussion on the provisions of Section 140(1) – (3) of the Electoral Act, which prohibits any Court from declaring a loser of an election elected even if the person with the highest votes was not validly elected.  That Section provides as follows: “140. – (1) Subject to subsection (2) if this section, if the Tribunal or the Court has as the case may be, determines that a candidate who was returned as elected was not validly elected on any ground, the Tribunal or the Court shall nullify the election. (2)  Where an election tribunal or court nullifies an election on the ground that the person who obtained the highest votes at the election was not qualified to contest the election, the election tribunal or court shall not declare the person with the second highest votes as elected, but shall order a fresh election. (3)  If the Tribunal or the Court determines that a candidate who was returned as elected was not validly elected on the ground that he did not score the majority of valid votes cast at the election, the Election Tribunal or the Court, as the case may be, shall declare as elected the candidate who scored the highest number of valid votes cast at the election and satisfied the requirements of the Constitution and This Act.” However, I am not interested in the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010.  I am only deeply concerned and interested in the fundamental and peremptory principle of Justice.  No Judge should announce his judgment until he is satisfied thatJustice has been served, no matter how strong the pull of mechanical and technical law. The Zamfara and Rivers State judgments are a national tragedy.  We should not allow our legal system to throw up such unimaginable injustice.  This major judicial disenfranchisement of the Zamfara and Rivers electorate should be reversed.  I advise the APC legal team to apply for a review of the two judgments.  Their Lordships ought to be given an opportunity to reverse this unprecedented tragedy. The prefix “Justice” preceding he names of Supreme Court and Court of Appeal Judges is significant, for it prescribes what they stand for and what they represent, JUSTICE!