Unless the ferocious surge in armed banditry in Zamfara, Kaduna, and Katsina state spreading to Niger, Nasarawa states in a determined Southward sweep is stemmed, a bigger insecurity worry and food shortage beckon on the country, Sunday INDEPENDENT investigations have shown. This is even as armed insurgents travel through largely uncharted and less known grazing routes continue their bold and bloody campaign of killings, abductions, and despoliation southwards. While the armed gangs believed to travel in large numbers and mostly on motor bikes are now referred to as bandits or gunmen, as the case may apply, security agencies have since established their link with Boko Haram, or their more recent incarnate, Islamic State In West Africa Province, ISWAP; and are believed to draw membership from as far as Senegal, Sudan, Niger and other neighboring countries. The marauding insurgents make their way through open sparsely inhabited grasslands, which span across borders. Specifically, the grasslands mostly form the bulk of age long grazing routes for pastoralists, while most of the grazing routes meander through the country’s food/farming hubs. From the far-flung Sahel of the north, to the more vegetative savannahs south of the country, the bandits are believed to have infiltrated the grasslands. “The attack on Ife-Ilesha Road, Osun, earlier in the week is a clear demonstration of how mobile these so called bandits can be,” explained retired army officer now serving as security analyst for Savannah Center for Diplomacy Democracy and Development, SCDDD, Abuja. Explaining further, the retired officer who elected to speak off record because of the sensitivity of the matter, said that government, over the years, have failed to comprehensively map and chart forests and savannahs in the country, including the grazing routes. According to the retired officer, the bandits apparently have a firsthand knowledge of the routes. “The bandits or insurgents could move through the savannah from Zamfara and materialize in Ilesha like it happened earlier in the week without any warning,” the source said. On May 5, multiple eyewitness accounts reported how a trailer load of gun men, speaking a language believed to be Hausa, ambushed motorists and commuters on the highway with guns, shooting sporadically into the air. The attack, reportedly, took place in Ikoyi town, in Osun and had lots of people abandoned their vehicles and scamper off into the bushes. While that was going on, the gunmen pounced on the vehicle bearing Olayinka Adegbehingbe, a professor of Orthopaedic surgery at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, OAUTH, and his family. The professor was abducted only to be released a few days later. According to him, his abductors, who were Hausa speakers only released him after his family paid a hefty ransom of N5 million. Speaking later on the kidnap and armed holdup on the highway, Gboyega Oyetola, governor, Osun State, reiterated a need to further open up channel of communication with members of the Myetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association Nigeria, MACBAN. More than any call for security precaution; the governor’s admonition reflects federal government’s admitted incapacity at stemming the tide of banditry sweeping from North to the South of the country. Like the analyst with the Sahara Center pointed out to the newspaper on the familiarity of the bush routes in the wild from which bandits launch attacks on communities, towns and melt back into the bush, federal government appears to have come to an understanding of the need to partner MACBAN, an association made up largely of pastoralist and who are familiar with the grazing routes and use their knowledge to contain the bandits. News broke last week that Minister of Interior, Abdulrahaman Dambazzau, had met with members of the MACBAN over ways of stopping the killings and despoliation. According to some details from the meeting, the pastoralists had requested for N160 billion. But the government team had insisted on N100 billion. “This was because this was money approved initially by a previous presidential sub-committee on grazing, explained a ministry source to the newspaper. But, the federal government, through the presidency, acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had refuted the claim. But despite spirited denials, the newspaper investigation shows that the smartest option may just be to pay the money but with the strictest implementation of the earlier recommendation by a presidential grazing, farmers/herders clashes sub-committee set up under former President Goodluck Jonathan. Not a few of the pastoralists admit that current conflict may be fuelled by frustration from Fulani seeking expansion of grazing reserves. Before now, there has been pressure from Fulani community leaders, known as Ardo’en, to state governors in the North to help salvage what is left of the customary grazing lands. MACBAN believes that the move will boost livestock population; lessen the difficulty of herding; reduce seasonal migration, and will enhance the interaction among farmers, pastoralists, and rural dwellers. Despite these expectations, grazing reserves are not within the reach of about three-quarters of the Fulani. Most reserves, either by sheer distance from settlements or by lack of market facilities, tend to isolate the Fulani from the desired social and economic interdependence with the rest of the rural community. Under former President Jonathan, a sub-committee on grazing and incessant herdsmen farmers’ clashes was constituted. Headed by Muritala Nyako, then governor of Adamawa’s State, on account of the state being a regular flashpoint of conflicts, the committee had come with a wide range of reform proposals that had both economic and security advantages. The recommendations, submitted to NEC, headed by Namadi Sambo, then vice president, was said to have carried the traditional nomadic herders along. In all, the committee came up with 15 recommendations some which was that N100 billion money be shared along the size of cattle population in each states, where the likelihood of violent clashes may occur and states closer to the border that may attract foreign herders who cannot be stopped on account of ECOWAS protocol on trans-border trading. The money was also meant to provide mini ranches, pay compensations to land owners and provide infrastructures needed to make the grazing/cattle ranch hubs accessible. This was to make registration and capture of the herdsmen possible by immigration (in case of foreign herdsmen who come into the country to graze their cattle) and other relevant agencies. The former administration further incorporated recommendations into its Agribusiness plan. For instance, a beef processing investment case prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture at the time based its ready beef supply on ‘traditional Fulani livelihood, informal industry players from cattle rarer, traders to transporters and butchers’. “What was proposed was a complete package. The mini-ranches were already taken care of; we were supposed to bring in the private sector into the beef industry and grow it,” explained a member of the Agribusiness and Investment Team, who spoke to the newspaper. Going by other recommendations from the grazing sub-committee of the 2014, the money was disbursed, to states in order of its cattle population like Borno, Adamawa, Plateau, Jigawa, Katsina, and Sokoto would get larger funding. Going by documents from ministry of Agric, cattle population in these areas are estimated at one million plus. The second category of states had between 501, 000 to 1, 000,000 cattle. These include Benue, Kebbi, Kaduna, Kwara, Yobe, Bauchi and Kano. Others are the states with 51 to 500, 000 cattle heads including Taraba, some parts of Cross River, Kogi, Niger, Oyo and some parts in Enugu. It could not be ascertained if any of the governors who shared in the N100 billion appears to have implemented this plan, a reason why the House of Representatives planned a probe on the matter. Some pundits say that the politics of 2015 general election may have scuttled this plan. Whatever happened to the money, President Muhammadu Buhari administration may have no other option but to pay up the money to pastoralists and enlist their help in the bid to halt killings and the spread of banditry. Though government hasn’t exactly folded its hands in the face of killings, pundits however aver that strong counter offensive measures might halt festering of the insurgency in the short run, the economy, especially as relates to food security, may also take a hit. The routes taken by the bandits to attack communities are farm and agrarian hubs, vital to food sustenance in the country. Recently, as part of Nigerian Army, NA, measure to hobble the bandits, a ban was placed on the use of motor bikes, especially in the areas of conflict. On the surface and given some curious bike demographics, the plan may appear well thought. Motor bikes are favoured by men, mostly, and within the ages of 18 and 40. This falls within the age bracket of foot soldiers recruited into banditry and insurgency. While the vehicle allows for mobility in bush routes for the bandits, it is also the means of transport for farmers in the food belt in the areas.