Dallas-Fort Worth International (DFW) Airport and American Airlines have confirmed plans to develop a sixth terminal building that is set to open as soon as 2025, businesstraveller reports. The US$3-3.5 billion plan includes the construction of the new Terminal F and improvements to the existing Terminal C. The new terminal will be situated south of Terminal D with up to 24 gates planned for the facility. Work on designing the new terminal has begun, with several different layouts set to be explored. American Airlines says the new Terminal F will “accommodate a changing aviation industry” incorporating innovative technologies to aid passenger movement, maintain airline cost efficiency and improve operational performance. The joint project also involves an upgrade plan of the existing Terminal C, which opened in 1974 as one of the airport’s original terminals. The goal of the enhancements is to bring it to the same level as Terminals A, B and E, which were renovated in 2018 with redesigned check-in areas, larger security checkpoints, expanded concessions spaces, as well as improved lighting and flooring. Commenting on the new project, CEO of DFW Airport, Sean Donohue, said: “Today’s announcement sets the stage for DFW Airport’s next 50 years. The new Terminal F and the expansion that could follow will provide the region with the growth it needs to compete with international business centres.” Describing DFW as American Airlines’ largest hub and “a central gateway to [its] extensive international and domestic network”, American Airlines’ chairman and CEO, Doug Parker, said: “The plans we’re announcing today will allow for the continued growth of DFW and ensure the airport remains a premier gateway for American for many more years to come.” Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings also commented that the cooperation between the two parties will “further solidify DFW’s standing as one of the best international airports in the world”. Last week, American Airlines opened its new 2,150-sqm Flagship Lounge at DFW’s Terminal D, complete with a Flagship First Dining experience. It also reopened its renovated Admirals Club lounge in the same terminal building. In 2018, DFW Airport had a passenger capacity record of 69 million, covering a network of 182 domestic and 62 international non-stop destinations worldwide. More passengers and air service are anticipated to be added in the next few years. American Airlines has also expanded with additional DFW service over the past several years. Passengers now can fly to over 230 non-stop destinations with American from the airport. By June 2019, the carrier will operate over 900 daily flights from DFW.