Lagos – Rivers United, on Wednesday, snapped Enyimba’s 12-match unbeaten run in the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) with a 1-0 win in Port Harcourt. United could have won more handsomely but for some impressive goalkeeping heroics by the Enyimba goalkeeper, Theophilus Afelokhai, who produced a stunning double save late on to keep the score respectable. The win at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium, Port Harcourt keeps United in the hunt for a playoff ticket as they now sit just two points behind the third placed MFM FC who have amassed 28 points from 18 matches. Ossy Martins tapped home a Malachi Ohawume pass in the 13th minute after the forward dispossessed an Enyimba defender of the ball. It marked the only goal of the game and ultimately ended Enyimba’s unbeaten run. The Peoples Elephants pressed for equalizer earlier on with Stanley Dimgba, the only player trying to create something for Enyimba in the match. Head coach of Enyimba, Usman Abdalah was quick to offer words of praise to United as he saw his side’s long standing winning run come to a shuddering half. “Rivers United gave a very good account of themselves and they deserved to win,” Abdallah said. United’s technical manager, Stanley Eguma also voiced his sentiments as he spoke to the club’s official website, www.riversunitedfc.com.ng. “There is improvement in our team as we have been playing some great football recently. We played better than Enyimba today and we will continue working harder,” he said. Rivers United now sit in fourth place on the NPFL standings with 26 points from 18 matches. In the result of other matches decided on Wednesday, Rivers United forced Wikki Tourists to a 1-1 draw in Bauchi while Niger Tornadoes enhanced their survival by piping Katsina United 1-0 in Minna. Similarly, Rangers extended their grip atop the Group A of the league with a 1-0 win over Kwara United in Enugu. Akwa United also tightened their hold on top of Group B with a 1-0 win over Go Round in Omoku, Rivers State, while Plateau United defeated Gombe United 2-0 in Jos. In Damaturu, El-Kanemi Warriors forced Yobe Desert Stars to a goalless affair. Rangers now have 34 points and Enyimba are still second with a superior goals difference over MFM as both clubs are on 28 points. In Group B, Akwa United have gone 34 points ahead of second placed FC IfeanyiUbah who were not on duty on Wednesday.