Lagos- Paul Put, Syli Nationale of Guinea coach is banking on his experience at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) final in 2013 to enhance the chances of his team at this year’s edition of the competition billed for Egypt. Put oversaw Burkina Faso qualify for their first ever AFCON final in 2013, losing 1-0 to Nigeria with a Sunday Mba goal 40 minutes into the game in Johannesburg. This year, Guinea is pooled with Nigeria in Group B. Put, who returned to Guinea a brief stint with Kenya’s Harambee Stars and USM Alger in Algeria, believes that he can push the Syli Nationale into similar territory. “I believe in our chances, but we need to work very hard for it. It will not be easy for us,” Put said of his side’s chances. Apart from Nigeria, Put’s men will play Madagascar and Burundi in Group B and has warned that as much as it looks easy, it would not be a walk in the park against any group opponent. “We have Nigeria, a strong opponent and I have good memories against them from 2013 with Burkina Faso. I hope I can make the same experience with Guinea this time round. “Madagascar and Burundi are seen as outsiders but it is never easy playing against outsiders. It will be very difficult to play against them but I hope we can get out of this group. It is not easy and maybe we will have to play until the last day of the group,” he added. Guinea will be making their 12th appearance at the AFCON, with their best showing having been in 1976 when they reached the final and lost to Morocco by a point in the round robin format that also included Nigeria and Egypt. Guinea play their group matches in Alexandria and will kick off their campaign against Madagascar on June 22 before playing Nigeria’s Super Eagles four days later and winding down the group stage campaign against ‘Les Hirondelles’ of Burundi on June 30 at the Al Salaam Stadium in Cairo. AYO BADA Lagos Paul Put, Syli Nationale of Guinea coach is banking on his experience at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) final in 2013 to enhance the chances of his team at this year’s edition of the competition billed for Egypt. Put oversaw Burkina Faso qualify for their first ever AFCON final in 2013, losing 1-0 to Nigeria with a Sunday Mba goal 40 minutes into the game in Johannesburg. This year, Guinea is pooled with Nigeria in Group B. Put, who returned to Guinea a brief stint with Kenya’s Harambee Stars and USM Alger in Algeria, believes that he can push the Syli Nationale into similar territory. “I believe in our chances, but we need to work very hard for it. It will not be easy for us,” Put said of his side’s chances. Apart from Nigeria, Put’s men will play Madagascar and Burundi in Group B and has warned that as much as it looks easy, it would not be a walk in the park against any group opponent. “We have Nigeria, a strong opponent and I have good memories against them from 2013 with Burkina Faso. I hope I can make the same experience with Guinea this time round. “Madagascar and Burundi are seen as outsiders but it is never easy playing against outsiders. It will be very difficult to play against them but I hope we can get out of this group. It is not easy and maybe we will have to play until the last day of the group,” he added. Guinea will be making their 12th appearance at the AFCON, with their best showing having been in 1976 when they reached the final and lost to Morocco by a point in the round robin format that also included Nigeria and Egypt. Guinea play their group matches in Alexandria and will kick off their campaign against Madagascar on June 22 before playing Nigeria’s Super Eagles four days later and winding down the group stage campaign against ‘Les Hirondelles’ of Burundi on June 30 at the Al Salaam Stadium in Cairo.