ABUJA – The upper chamber of the National Assembly yesterday approved a fine of N5 million for any company without dignified staff buses. The Senate, which also ordered all employers to provide shelter at the various bus stops for their employees, approved the sum of N200,000 for any erring director. This is in a bid to improve human dignity for the transportation of employees in Nigeria. The position of the Senate followed the consideration of report on a Bill for an Act to provide for adequate transportation, protection and other facilities for employers in Nigeria to restore the dignity and other matters by the Senate Committee on Land Transport, chaired by Senator Olugbenga Ashafa, APC-Lagos East during plenary. The fine for corporate body, according to the committee chairman, was raised from N1million to N5million to enhance safety measures for employees by their respective employees. Adopting the report of the committee, the Senate said that “offences under this bill shall be tried by the industrial court” while any case of victimisation of an employee(s) should be reported to the Minister of Transportation. Adopting the clause by clause of the report, after presentation by the lawmaker, the Senate considered the inclusion of suitable and conducive vessels in the riverine areas for the purpose of conveying employees to and from work. The Senate also considered other safety measures which made it mandatory for employers to acquire well equipped vehicles with seat belts and “at least a 46 inch high rail or enclosure on the sides and back of the vehicle”. Vehicles for conveying employees, it added “must have lambs, brakes, horn, mirrors, windshield, turn signals and other safety equipments. “Every truck-type bus must have seats with backrests and must be provided with a minimum of 18 inches seat space for each passenger. Where the sitting is face to face, the aisle between the seats facing each other shall be 24 inches wide at the narrowest point.” Meanwhile, the Senate Committee on Sport yesterday threatened to shutdown Bet9ja office if the company fails to honour its invitation for a second time.