Hon. Chris Hassan, a former Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, is the Acting Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau state. In this interview with ONOJA AUDU, he said the suspension of Party Chairman Damishi Sango had the backing of majority of the state working committee of his party. Excerpts: How do you react to the position of your suspended Chairman Damishi Sango that only the NEC of the Peoples Democratic Party at Wadata Plaza in Abuja can suspend him from office that he remains the chairman of the main opposition party, the PDP on the Plateau? Let me tell you that laws are made for the good governance of the people and not animals. laws are interpreted by human beings. Sango was first elected Chairman of Plateau chapter of the Peoples Democratic party and that made him to qualify him to be a member of NEC and there is a difference between a national office holder that is a NEC member of the party . Sango doesn’t dispense his assignment in Abuja Headquarters but in Plateau state where he was elected to serve as Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party. If the state that elected him as Chairman of the party now says they no longer have confidence in him and suspends him from office, it stands . It is the members of the party from the state that have told him to his face that they are no longer at home with his one man show style of leadership, high handedness and running the affairs of the party alone without giving room for other members of his EXCO to add any contribution to the running of the party’s affairs on the Plateau. He doesn’t communicate with anybody and that is why he was suspended for one month to give him room for his probe and he has to give way for his probe by the committee that was set up by the leadership of the party. Let me tell you that out of 24 members of the state executive committee of the party, 21 of them signed for his suspension and passed a vote of no confidence on him and likewise the SEC of the party that ratifies the decision of the state EXCO,65 of them out of them signed for his suspension and so should anyone tell him again that majority of the party stakeholders have lost confidence on him . He called a meeting of the SEC, out of 72 members only 6 persons came and he also went ahead to call a meeting of the state EXCO and nobody turned up .When he took us to the state Commissioner of Police , only him was there without other members of the party EXCO . This is democracy era and people must be ready to accept the decision of the majority and may I advise our suspended Chairman Sango, he should running around and accept the will of the party by going one month suspension to be probed after which the party leadership will reconvene to consider the report of the probe panel on him and final decision of his leadership of the party taken in good faith for the overall good of the party. What do you intend to do now to re-position your Party on the Plateau? We love the party and do not want any crisis that would tear the fortunes of the party on the Plateau and that is why we are trying to reposition the party to move the party forward on the Plateau because our party is well grounded on the Plateau. we won this state during the Presidential election and wondered why we should lose the state during the governorship election and that is why we are at the tribunal, we believe something went wrong somewhere and by the grace of God we are hoping to triumph at the Election petition tribunal sitting already in Jos . Was it true in the real sense of the word that Sango ran an exclusive party Administration for the over two years he served as your party as party Chairman before he ran into troubled waters with the majority of you in his executive committee of the your party on the Plateau ? Sango was not running the party in the best interest of the majority but for his personal interest . The problem we had was enormous .Sango went severally to attend NEC meeting and returns after these meetings without briefing anybody. He was completely running a one man show, Sango came and formed campaign council of the party in the last general election and with no input. We have the secretary of the party here with us and let him tell you where such matters have been tabled before members of the executive committee of the party for discussion, none. Apart from the EXCO of the party, we also have the state working committee of the party, they are the people who see to the day to day running of the party and looking at minutes of the meeting, you will not see where such opportunity is given, Sango alone runs the show. We want a leadership of the party that will take us to a greater height on the Plateau because Peoples Democratic is a party that is well loved by the people of the state and do not want a single individual to come and destroyed the fortunes of the party and good will on the Plateau. We need a party leader that will run an all inclusive administration in the administration of the party and who would allow every segments of the party to carry out its responsibilities as assigned by the constitution and provisions of the party ,not some- one who would run a one man show in the conduct of the affairs of the party in our state, we would not allow that to continue further any more on the Plateau. How do you react to the claim by Sango that he was not alone the funds that was sent from Abuja Headquarters for the general election claiming that your party governorship candidate JT Useni was in the picture of what was collected and spent? We are not after the funds that were collected and that is not our worry .what we are saying here is that for every public office , there must be accountability ,whoever he went there to collect the money with we don’t know because here in the party, we have the party secretary, financial secretary ,we have treasurer and party officials on ground in the party and I don’t see where in any state the Chairman of the party goes to Abuja to collect funds from the party national secretariat and if a given party Chairman decides to be doing so , where will be the place of the financial and treasurer of the party in the running of the affairs of the party. If funds are Sango’ss problem, funds are not our own problem because what we are saying here is that he Sango did not carry people along. Let me ask here,, When he went to Abuja to collect campaign funds with whom did he discuss with when he came back to Jos ? He did not discuss it with the EXCO of the party or the SEC of the party and the campaign council of the party. He goes for party meetings in Abuja alone and come back to Jos and keep everything they discuss at the meeting to himself alone ,we leave him to his conscience and God . The one man show thing is not good for a democratic setting like this .What we have here is a political party leadership, we are all equal and one man cannot do everything alone , we all must be involved in the decision making of the party.