ENUGU – A United States of America based philanthropists, Felix Ugwu has settled hospital bills for six indigent patients at the Enugu State University Teaching Hospital (ESUTH). Ugwu, who paid the hospital bills amounting to N.9million also donated food items worth N.9 million to Our Lady of Perpetual Help Home of the Elderly, Awkunanaw, Enugu. At ESUTH, Ugwu paid the bills of patients who had earlier been discharged either on account of the completion of their medication or referral to other hospitals but were left stranded for months in the hospital due to lack of funds to settle their bills. According to a nurse in the hospital, who spoke on condition of anonymity, one of the patients suffering from advanced cervical cancer was referred to the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Enugu. She said that the patient could not be released for further medication in UNTH due to her huge debt and had spent more time than necessary in ESUTH. “This patient is in her fifties. She has advanced cancer of the cervix which affected her uterus and intestines and can no longer pass excreta,” she said. Other patients whose hospital bills were paid included three nursing mothers who were delivered of their babies through cesarean session but were held back by the hospital management for their inability to pay. Others were a young single mother who had spent over one month after her discharge from the hospital and an octogenarian, whose family could neither meet up with her hospital expenses or discharge fee. Speaking with journalists, Ugwu said that the gesture was his own way of celebrating the imminent swearing-in of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for a second term in office on May 29. According to him, “governor has done well in uplifting the poor, the needy and residents of the state. What we are doing today is in support and furtherance of the good nature of the governor.” Ugwu, who was touched by the number of stranded patients that mobbed him to settle their bills in the hospital called on well-meaning Nigerians to visit such hospitals and assist indigent patients. Also, the sister in-charge of the home for the elderly, Sister Ellen Creed expressed delight at such act of philanthropy. She said that the home currently had no fewer than 60 inmates and depended solely on assistance from members of the public “but what we have witnessed today is a great surprise. “Enugu people are generally good but this amount of assistance is extraordinary. The state governor has been a long faithful friend of this home. “He tells his friends about us and they in turn come to help us to enable us to serve more elderly people,” Creed said. Also, the Coordinator of The Mandate Group for Ugwuanyi, Mr Ifeanyi Agu, said that Ugwu had always championed the course of the downtrodden. Agu said that such philanthropic missions reflected the nature of the governor.