Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – A consortium of donors which include Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa, USAID, UKAID, Rockefeller Foundation, Bill and Melinda Foundation have provided $2million grant to National Agricultural Seeds Council (NASC) for the production and dissemination of improved quality seeds to about two million small holder farmers across the country. Dr. Kehinde Makinde, Country Manager of AGRA, who stated this yesterday during the inception planning and review meeting of the consortia in Abuja, said the grant was provided under the auspices of Partnership for Inclusive Agricultural Transformation in Africa. Makinde pointed out that agricultural transformation of Africa remains the core functions of AGRA, assuring the support of AGRA to the vibrant seed system and development in Nigeria to guarantee increase in food production. He further noted that AGRA targets three pillar of work across Africa namely policy and state capability, strong seed systems, and partnership with the private sector for agricultural transformation in the Continent. This initiative, he explained, would lift millions of smallholder farmers from poverty and add value to their farm produce. Also speaking, Dr. Olusegun Philip Ojo, the Director General of NASC, said early generation seed is very important to the seed sector, maintaining that without improved seeds, there would be no higher yields in agriculture. Ojo said Nigeria, over the years, has been having issues with early generation seeds, expressing delight that AGRA has come on board to assist Nigeria. He urged the stakeholders to key in and ensure that the off-take of the early generation seeds from producers, particularly from Premier Seeds and Value Seeds Companies is carried out. He further revealed that the NASC was partnering with the consortium to produce electronic tags which would be attached to the seed containers to guarantee high credibility of seeds and reduce faking of seeds from these reputable companies. According to him, “We are doing this to protect farmers from the unscrupulous elements and protect the image of the seed companies to guarantee food security. This initiative would be the first in the West Africa”. Ojo, who was recently re-appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari, vowed to ensure that Nigerian farmers have access to high quality seeds to guarantee food security in Nigeria and West Africa.