YOLA – There was confusion in Maiha, Adamawa State, as police operatives at the state command struggled to arrest a vulture which was brought into the state by a woman. A dependable source told Daily Independent that the police and residents of the area were skeptical of the woman’s intention with the bird. It was gathered that some of the operatives were afraid to get closer to the vulture but one of them was courageous to grab it and it was detained at the police command headquarters. The Police Command through the Police Relations officer (PPRO) Othman Abubakar explained that the continuous detention of a vultures was because a certain woman brought them into Maiha Local Government Area for undisclosed reasons. The Commissioner of Police in charge of Adamawa State Police Command Mr. Adamu Audu Madaki, who threw more light on the development said the arrest of the vulture and the woman in Maiha followed a complaint against them by a man in Maiha Local Government Area. Madaki said the man called to complain that a woman had brought a vulture and that the last time someone brought three vultures into Maiha the area was attacked by insurgents and several persons lost their lives. Madaki said since the community seem to be disturbed by the presence of strange vulture, he advised the man to lodge a complaint with the Divisional Police Officer, DPO, in Maiha which he complied and this led to the arrest of the woman and the vulture. He said the police were used to such types of complaints and have no option than to investigate to ascertain its credibility. “So, we want to ascertain what the vulture is meant for,” said Madaki. Madaki noted that Vultures are a very scarce birds in the Northern part of Nigeria and in the North East Vultures have disappeared completely but for the woman to bring them could mean something sinister and the police is determined to find out her reasons for bringing in the vulture and where she got it from. “That is why the woman and the vulture were arrested.’ He explained.