The need to resuscitate the moribund Nigerian Open, which has long been in the front burner of golf conversation even as it is has not gotten the desired attention, has reverberated again. The Nigerian Open is a national tournament of international participation, expected to be a vista of opportunities for the development of golf in the country under the auspices of the Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF). Gift Willy, one of Nigeria’s prolific professional players and winner of the 2019 Cameroon Open, however, believes that “it is a national shame” after over a decade that the event was last held, it still could not be revived. Willy, who defeated his fellow Nigerian, Andrew Oche Odoh, after a playoff, reflecting on the Nigerian Open in an exclusive interview on Wednesday, charged the golf authorities to wake up from their slumber and do the needful. Commenting on the Nigerian Open he said, “The much I can say is that it is a shame; a national shame that Nigerian Open has gone under and a small country as Cameroon has an Open that is running regularly. “Nigeria has all the resources, the players and all one can think of to sustain the Open for as long as the country exists. There is just no reason to say Nigeria Open has gone under. “We have Ghana Open; Ivory Coast Open; Gabon; Senegal, South Africa; Zambia; Kenya name it, all are still functioning well – where is Nigerian Open,” he queried. On the doorstep to lay the blame, Willy did not hesitate to finger the NGF adding, “The NGF is the body responsible for the supervision of the golf in Nigeria. The Open is a national tournament; it is for all golfers home and abroad to participate like the US Open.” However, the leadership of the NGF under Gen. Olagunsoye Oyinlola (rtd), on assumption of office promised to resuscitate the Nigerian Open, but the regime seemed to have resumed the second stanza of its tenure without action. Sadly, not even the driving range for training which the board also promised will be established in the six geopolitical zones has seen the light of the day and some stakeholders have termed it the usual “political promise.” Tony Uduimo, a one-time Professional Golfers’ Association of Nigeria (PGAN) Director, in an earlier interview told DAILY INDEPENDENT, “Nigeria Open died when the rules and mandate of the tournament were derailed for selfish interest – unnecessary in-fighting and bickering. “It will take people and a leadership with genuine interest for golf development to revive Nigerian Open. They will have to raise good money – get investors to partner with them; multinational companies will have to be involved.” The only tournament surviving under the NGF in recent times is the annual Junior Open Championship, sponsored by Awa Ibraheem.