Seven motorcycle operators have been prosecuted by the Lagos State Government over an attack on officers of the Lagos State Task force. The Chairman of the Lagos State Task Force, Chief Superintendent of Police,CSP, Olayinka Egbeyemi disclosed at the weekend that the seven suspects who are motorcycle operators had attacked the officers while attempting to enforce traffic laws of the state on motorcycle operators plying restricted routes around Oworonsoki, Adeniji Adele junction, Obalende, Falomo, Lekki Phase (1) and Ikoyi link-bridge area of the State. According to Egbeyemi the suspects had attacked the officers with stones, bottles and Iron-rod while on legitimate mission to arrest motorcycle operators plying restricted routes. CSP,Egbeyemi further explained that in the process four of the personnel were seriously injured with stones, bottles and Iron-rods around Lekki Phase (1). He confirmed that during the enforcement operations carried out around the areas mentioned 92 motorcycles were impounded for plying restricted routes including highways and bridges. “During the enforcement operations some suspected motorcyclists started shouting and calling the attention of their colleagues who emerged from nowhere and were throwing stones, bottles and iron-rods at my officers” CSP Egbeyemi who enjoined other relevant stakeholders to support the agency in curbing this ‘Okada’ menace said it was a rude shock seeing motorcycle operators now shuttling and struggling right of ways with motorists on Ikoyi link-bridge, Falomo, Lekki Phase 1, Adeniji Adele including Obalende. He stated that while two Police Officers got injured during the attack two other paramilitary officers sustained injuries on their heads and legs as they were attacked with broken bottles. According to the Chairman “The government will no longer tolerate any the slightest attack on officers and men of the agency. Just recently a Police  officer with the agency died as a result of injuries he sustained from miscreants and hoodlums while on enforcement duty around Mile 12 area” The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP, Zubairu Muazu condemned the attack in a very strong term and warned that the Police under his watch will not tolerate criminal attacks and assault on its personnel or facilities. He however directed the Chairman of the Lagos State Task Force Egbeyemi to immediately charged all those arrested to court for prosecution. However, all the arrested suspects have been arraigned in court as directed by the CP, to serve as deterrent to others who may want to act in like manners.