OWERRI – People of Inyishi, Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo State have alleged that ALEX, an aluminum extrusion firm, located few metres away from “Mbaa River” has been channeling its waste toxic waste products into the river. The company was established by the former Governor of old Imo State, Samuel Onunaka Mbakwe in the early 1980s and it is currently owned and managed by three states that make up of the old Imo State – Imo, Abia and Ebonyi States. The company produces all kind of aluminum products and allegedly channels her toxic waste products into “Mbaa River”. The said river flows to other neighbouring communities such as Uzoagba, Eziama and other communities in the state. Investigations by DAILY INDEPENDENT revealed that members of the community are not happy that “Mbaa River” being the source of their livelihood has on a regular basis being polluted by the company more than four decades and still counting. The company in its employment has over eighty per cent of its workforce as casual workers with limited entitlements. Industrial accident victims of the company are left to care for themselves since they were not employed as permanent staff. Victims of industrial accident whose hands, legs and other parts of their bodies were affected by the heavy duty machines were not home for comments, but in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, the traditional ruler of Inyishi Community Eze Andrew Nnanna Osuji confirmed the story of Industrial accident victims and many other issues affecting his community based on the activities of ALEX. “Generally speaking, my people are not feeling very well with the company. Let me be very sincere with you, most of our people who are employed in the company are few. About eighty five per cent of them are casual workers and these people have been working for more than seven years without being confirmed as permanent staff. These are some of the issues we have been battling with”, said Eze Osuji “So far, I am not satisfied with the relationship between my community and the company. I am not also satisfied with their services too. Despite their inadequacies, my people don’t attack them but they should not take the people for granted. “Like it is been done in most developed countries, there should be life insurance for the company workers and the company should define when the people working for them should expect full employment instead of retaining them as casual workers for more than seven years. In the past, there have been casualties resulting from faulty machines or operation of some of their heavy-duty machines in the factory. “A situation where a token is given to our people who are victims of industrial accidents in the company is over. We want our people to be insured and staffed so that at the point of death or any accident, families of the victims will not suffer unnecessarily. On the issue of the company’s waste disposal into “Mbaa River”, the traditional ruler said that he is aware that the company dumps its toxic waste into the said river, and this according to him, has been happening since 1980s, thereby polluting the only community water within the reach of the people. “The Managing Director of the company told me that his company has prepared a dumping site within their premises. But they have not shown it to me at least for one to believe that is the true position. Prior to this unverifiable information given to me by the managing director, the company pours their chemical wastes into the river over the years. “My people are of the view that ALEX has not done well in the community. The expected relationship is not forthcoming. Our youths seemed not to be worried because most of them are educated, peaceful in their nature, usefully engaged and perhaps influenced by the football cup donated to them by the same company ALEX. “We are planning to meet the management with a view to revisit the memorandum of understanding between the community and the company”. According to the traditional ruler, the community has concluded plans to present a new memorandum of understanding, since the company was reluctant to produce the understanding reached between it and the community many years ago. “The management turned down my request to see the written understanding, and it is the basis for future and better relationship between the company and the community. We really need to sit down and study this understanding with a view to know our limits and responsibilities to each other. We have really tolerated them because I don’t want crisis in my community. The new understanding will address issues of casual workers, industrial accident victims and social services. We will also demand that the community be included as members of board of directors. We should be made to represent ourselves on issues affecting us directly. “I am also grateful for the little the company has done including three boreholes in three villages, few of solar energy light stands on the road and roofing of parts of the community health centre. So with a few things enumerated here, this will give you an idea that this community deserves serious attention from the company that has existed here for more than forty years. When DAILY INDEPENDENT visited ALEX for comments on issues raised by the community, the Managing Director, who simply gave his name as Mr Ganesh, refused to speak specifically on community and ALEX relationship. He claimed he needed permission of the board of directors to talk to the press. After a long period of friendly chats, he admitted that the company in the past decades channeled her waste products in the Mbaa River, but according to him, the tides have changed since he assumed office more than five years ago, but did not state where the waste is presently channeled to. He told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the company is planning for expansion and will soon introduce new machines. During the expansion, the company would engage some of its casual workers to become full staff of the company, he said. According to Ganesh, business climate in Nigeria coupled with non-availability of public power supply have remained an obstacle towards implementation of some its developmental projects in the industry. He resisted response on issues related to industrial accidents, casual workers and safety measures which the company adopted for the protection of its workers.