Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Operatives of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested a driver, Olanrewaju Adesoji and two others for allegedly diverting and selling a truck load of powdered milk. The suspects, Olanrewaju Adesoji, 43 and two others Sunday Ejirille, 52, James Oja, 47 were arrested for diverting 30 tons of power milk FMCG meant to be conveyed to Abuja. The suspects were arrested by the Command’s Investigation Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, following a petition from a company, Kobo Logistics Limited, the suspect’s employer. Parading the suspects at the Command’s Headquarters, Ikeja, the Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu said the driver and others diverted the truck loaded with milk to Aba, Abia State and sold them. According to the CP, 60 percent of the stolen good was recovered at Aba, Abia State. While speaking with Journalists, one of the suspects, Sunday denied the allegations. He said: “I am not a criminal. I was not the person who diverted the goods. I sold tyres to a customer who travelled with his truck to the East. I sold to him on credit, so when I also travelled to the East and I called my customer that I was in the east and that he should pay me my money; he said I should meet him in a hotel. When I met him, he said I should wait until the following day, so I slept over in the hotel. It was while I was waiting for him in the hotel that the police came to the hotel and arrested us. “For the tyres the police claimed that I stole, I did not steal any tyre. My customer who is on the run sold the tyres to me, I paid him and he gave me receipts. It was N12 million. I knew that I made a mistake; I would not have visited my customer in the hotel, but that does not make me a thief. Another suspect, Oja who contradicted Sunday said, “I called Sunday to come and help me sell some used tyres because the owner of the truck contracted me to help him sell some tyres. We sold the tyres. Sunday should not deny that we sold tyres and that we were planning on what to do with the milk when the police came and arrest us, he said. The CP further added that the suspects will be charged to court as soon as investigation is completed.