Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – The Nigerian Police have charged a Lagos socialite, Buhari Oloto alongside four others before a Lagos State High Court over unlawful interference with property, contrary to Section 2(1) of the Lagos State Properties Protection Law 2016. In the suit with charge Number LD/8821C/2019 dated 18th February and signed by Mr Henry Obiazi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police on behalf of the Inspector General listed Tomori Williams, Adeyemi Adewale, Jimoh Jafar and Chief Edward Akande as co-defendants. According to the Police, the particular of the offence against Oloto and others are as follows: “Buhari Oloto, Tomori Williams, Adeyemi Adewale, Jimoh Jafar and one Chief Edward Akande between January and April, 2016 at Alaka area of Lagos within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, unlawfully interfered with a vast expanse of land, property of the Registered Trustees of the Estate of Late Madam Iyalode Efunroye Tinubu and prevented the trustees, their lawful representatives and genuine purchaser of the portions of the said land, from making use of the property and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 2(3) of the Lagos State, Properties Protection Law 2016.” The said land was said to be in peaceful possession of the Registered Trustees of the Estate of Late Madam Iyalode Efunroye Tinubu. The trustees have given Adamakin Investments and Works Limited the power of attorney over the land. It is the company that filed a complaint to the police on behalf of the trustees. The suspects were also charged with forcible entry, contrary to section 3 of the Lagos State, Properties Protection Law 2016. The police accused the defendants of entering the land in a manner that likely to cause a breach of peace. The defendants were also accused of forcible possession of land contrary to section 4 the Lagos State, Properties Protection Law 2016. Part of the charge also reads: “Buhari Oloto, Tomori Williams, Adeyemi Adewale, Jimoh Jafar and a Chief Edward Akande between January and April, 2016 at Alaka area of Lagos within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, in a manner likely to cause a breach of peace, without a claim of right, forcibly took and held possession of the landed property of the Registered Trustees of the Estate of Late Madam Iyalode Efunroye Tinubu, located at Alaka Area of Lagos State and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 4(3) of the Lagos State, Properties Protection Law of 2016” The case has however been scheduled for June 11 for the police to produce the accused persons.