Bauchi – Suleiman T. Suleiman, Comptroller of Prisons, Bauchi State Command, has disclosed that five persons who had been convicted and are to be stoned to death were still languishing in prison. He said ten others whose legs and hands are to be amputated were also in prison. Suleiman, who was speaking in an interview with newsmen in his office on Tuesday on the conditions of prisons in the state, revealed that the two sets of convicts had been in jail for over 10 years without an action taken on them. He said six other inmates had also been condemned to death, five were on life sentence, and 188 were on long term sentence from two years and above, adding that the 500 capacity prison now had 947 inmates. He said: “The condemned convicts we have are mostly coming from Sharia Courts. These and other related cases like amputation of hand or leg have been in jail for over 10 years without knowing their fate. “Their hands are not cut off, their legs are not cut off, yet they don’t know their fate. There are also those who are supposed to be stoned to death, this is very worrisome. “I feel touched that each time I go to any of the prisons to visit, they will be the first to confront me with questions about their case. I have written to the state governor and have also written to the state Chief Judge to see what can be done about these people. “They’re the only category of people that cannot be taken to court because they have already been convicted, but there’s no execution.” The Prison Comptroller said if their legs could not be amputated, they should be given terms of imprisonment, stressing that if it could not also be done, they should be granted pardon and counselled to be of good behaviour and released. According to him, this had become necessary because their plight was becoming a source of concern, especially to the officials in charge of them. “I want the government to execute the law as it is and if they cannot do that, the governor has the power to give clemency to these convicts. “The management of the prison in the state has improved the welfare of the inmates across all the 13 prisons in the state and they are now being fed quality meals three times daily.” According to him, the 11 women in Bauchi Prison are well taken care of by ensuring full separation from their male counterparts and their essential needs are adequately provided. Suleiman said the prison had a fully fledged hospital equipped with trained personnel and headed by a consultant physician to cater for the medical needs of all the inmates. He lamented the situation in the prisons, especially that of Bauchi, saying that water problem was becoming the biggest challenge facing the service. On decongestion of the prison, Suleiman said the federal government had approved the construction of 3, 000 capacity prison, adding that the state government had secured 50 hectares of land and paid all compensations for the smooth take-off and completion of the project.