OSOGBO – Osun State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday mocked the opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), saying the state is too big for Ademola Adeleke to govern. The party, in a statement issued by its Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Kunle Oyatomi, copy of which was made available to newsmen in Osogbo, said the scandals surrounding Adeleke’s personality and qualifications were embarrassing, which informed the reasons why some members of PDP approached court for clarity over the eligibility to hold such public office. APC, speaking against the backdrop of the PDP’s claim that Adeleke would reclaim his mandate and govern the state, told the PDP to “stop deceiving itself that Ademola Adeleke is good enough for governor of state of Osun’. According to APC, “Adeleke’s personality is problematic and embarrassingly scandalous in regard to his educational qualifications’. The APC argued that, “If the PDP as a political party is not embarrassed by the scandals surrounding Adeleke’s personality and qualifications, some of its members are concerned enough to seek clarity in court. “But for the PDP through its chairman, Hon. Soji Adagunodo, to turn around and accuse the APC of instigating PDP’S members, led by Mr Ajayi Shuaib, to seek clarity in court appears dumb to us. ‘Let’s remind the PDP that when Adeleke was rejected by the APC years back for the senatorial election, the PDP adopted him within hours and dumped their best qualified and professional minds. “However, what they did not factor into their hasty adoption was the potentially obvious down sides of the young man. They did not really think it through,” the APC said. The APC castigated the PDP for failing to take responsibility for the baggage it invited to their party because it was desperate to win election. “We have no interest in Adeleke. We rejected him long ago. Now that the PDP is discovering why the APC dumped him, it is just reasonable that the PDP carries its cross.” Regarding what Adagunodo called their “stolen mandate”, the APC said, “The PDP is still living in darkness. No matter how hard that party tries, it cannot get Osun people to repeat the tragedy of 2003.