Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ABUJA – The state of insecurity in the country in the four years of President Muhammadu Buhari administration has been overwhelming and has defied all known operational strategies by security forces. Social commentators, analysts and security experts are unanimous that it has not been this bad and scary throughout the 16 years when the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was in charge, although loyalists of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Buhari administration have been insisting amidst all odds, that it is better. For example, Femi Adesina, Senior Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to Buhari claimed in one of his public outings last year, that the number of people killed under Buhari’s government is not yet up to that of immediate past government of Dr Goodluck Jonathan, which suffered terrible things in the hands of Boko Haram. Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara Violence Drives 20,000 Into Niger Republic — UNHCR As at the time he made this comment, the North Central zone of the country was under severe and unchecked attacks by Fulani herdsmen, who killed scores in Benue State, and proudly owned up to it in the public that it was a revenge for the killings of their cows. The assertions by analysts that insecurity under Buhari is overwhelming are not unconnected with the number of deaths arising from diverse attacks, both by the Boko Haram insurgents in the North East and the Fulani herdsmen in the North Central, as well as armed bandits and kidnappers in the North West. A recent report had it that indigenes of Katsina State, the home state of President Buhari, indulge in night migration to neighbouring Niger Republic due to attacks by herdsmen masquerading as bandits. The Inspector General of Police (IGP) early in the year announced the alarming number of over 1,000 people killed already under this new security challenge haunting the administration. As a retired General, former Head of State and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, the expectations of citizens was that Buhari’s assumption of power four years ago would reduce to the barest minimum the ugly spectre of insecurity, and that he would succeed in this area where his predecessor, Jonathan, had stumbled. In fact, this was why the people voted for him, because the citizens were beginning to feel very unsafe, believing also that Jonathan lacked the strategies and will power to protect them. Herdsmen Crisis: Kogi Group Berates Bello Over Comment However, today, the reverse seems to be the case, as more people seem to be in fear of kidnappers, armed bandits and armed robbers, Fulani herdsmen, in addition to the Boko Haram insurgents. Although there were pockets of certain militia activities, robbery, herdsmen and farmers’ clashes, kidnapping among other petty crimes under Jonathan administration, his major and overwhelming challenge was the Boko Haram insurgency, that wreaked havoc and became a reference and campaign point for the then opposition APC. Quite overwhelming it was, the Boko Haram sect unleashed mayhem on citizens through bomb blasts in several cities, including Abuja, the nation’s capital, taking the battle to public places like the motor parks, churches, the United Nations (UN) building, Force Headquarters, media houses, among others, leading to the barricades along the streets as still seen today around major public facilities and buildings. Elsewhere in the North East, the war theatre, the insurgents sacked towns and villages, overthrew constituted authorities, occupied them and hoisted their flags, setting up their control, as they seized men, women and children into captivity, chief amongst which was the abduction of the girls from Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno state. Some of the abducted girls are still under Boko Haram captivity. At a point in the raging insurgency of pre-2015 period, Book Haram had total control of 14 LGAs in the northeast region. Under that administration, troops were said to battle insurgents under difficult situations without requisite arsenals, leading to the death of hundreds of them, constant desertion and rebellion by those in the front line. Boko Haram: Killing Of 11 In Maiduguri Mosque It appeared the challenges Jonathan faced were overwhelming and that he lacked in capacity and requisite strategy, given his background as a civilian to tackle the new style of warfare, asymmetric warfare – terrorism – that was confronting the nation for the first time. Matters were made worst with the western nations’ refusal to sell arms to Nigeria as they were made to believe by propagandists, that the Nigerian Army was committing war crimes, as the Amnesty International was alleged to have been the tool in the hands of the opposition then, to work against the administration. The April 14, 2014 bomb blast at Nyanya park, however, jolted the administration to reality. The subsequent acquisition of military hardware shortly after the postponed 2015 elections saw the military giving the insurgents a hot chase that made them flee from all cities into the Sambisa forest where they were rounded up and denied freedom of action. Equally, the military told the press that the lost towns were being recovered and troops taken charge in those towns and villages hitherto occupied by the terrorists. Those efforts, however, did not halt the impending defeat that starred Jonathan in the face. The tide was against his administration as majority the people across all political parties, especially in the northern part of the country, mostly affected by this insurgency rooted for ‘General Muhammadu Buhari’ (GMB). As the campaign raged, it was generally believed that given his status as a retired military General, he was abreast of the problems and would be in best position to solve them once he assumed office. Jonathan’s situation was made worse as the APC used the school girls’ propaganda against the administration. Jonathan and the PDP lost the election because they were adjudged unable to fight Boko Haram and recover the missing Chibok school girls and territories. Bandits Lay Siege To Zamfara, Displace 50,000 Upon his inauguration, Buhari assured the nation that he was aware of the enormous security challenges and had all it took to chase Boko Haram out of Nigeria and make Nigerians sleep with their two eyes closed as promised during the campaigns. This was Buhari’s plan for the security of the country, as he took over on May 29, 2015. But, his administration had its first bomb blast experience in Maiduguri, few hours after his inauguration, as the insurgents caused a deadly explosion at a mosque, killing innocent Nigerians. Consequently, the Military Command and Control Centre was moved from Abuja to Maiduguri, with the then ‘Operation Zama Lafiya’ changed to ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’. The gains of the last weeks of Jonathan as acknowledged by Buhari were sustained and his administration began to make some progress in the fight against Boko Haram. Cardinal in this progress, the government had said, it was the recovery of the captured towns and villages. The rescue of some of the missing Chibok school girls was negotiated even though several of them are yet to be return. While there was a change of guard in the military, as the President replaced the Service Chiefs he inherited, the new appointees came with their own strategies. The Nigerian Army claimed to have cleared the Sambisa forest and turned it into a tourist resort, as the insurgents were said to have fled the forest to the fringes of Lake Chad and elsewhere around Niger Republic. The government was said to have done well by retrieving all captured territories from Boko Haram and planning a reconstruction of same to make them habitable again. However, analysts think the military were able to recover those territories because the insurgents were no longer interested in holding territories, but moving around in hit and run style, causing havoc everywhere, as holding territories were becoming unsafe following military bombardments. Analysts argue that while the military busied itself chasing Boko Haram and taking over Sambisa, the terrorists were infiltrated by the Fulani herdsmen, a potential menace that had lingered, thereby orchestrating new crisis that saw widespread killings and sacking of farming communities in large numbers, especially in the Middle Belt region. 26 Killed As Boko Haram Invades Kudakaya Town, Adamawa State