LAGOS – Otunba Henry Ajomale, immediate past chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos state has described outgoing governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode as an achiever who will forever be remembered by the people of Lagos for what he did in his four years of piloting the affairs of the state. Speaking in a chat with Daily Independent, Ajomale said Ambode’s achievements are visible in several key areas especially in infrastructures, effective transportation system, healthcare services, security and so on. Ambode’s Unprecedented Scorecard In Four Years He also expressed confidence that Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the governor-elect will consolidate on Ambode’s achievements. “Ambode will be remembered for a lot of things, especially for all the projects that he has been able to do. Nobody can take that away from him. He excelled in the area of infrastructural developments in Lagos State”. “ For example, if you go to Alimosho, there are several roads that have been tarred by the Ambode administration. If you go to Oshodi today, you will marvel at the level of work going on there. The transport system has been enlarged to accommodate for effective transportation system”. “Even in the health sector, he has done well. So, to me Ambode has done well and I believe his successor will improve on what he has done and even want to do better because he will not want to do less than his predecessor” he said. NURTW, RTEAN Applaud Ambode For Transportation Projects Executed Speaking in a similar vein, Hakeem Adisa Bamgbola, former State Secretary of the party said Ambode has sustained the developments in the state in the last four years and Lagosians will forever be grateful to him. He listed some of the projects as the Abule-Egba flyover, Airport road construction, 114 inner roads, Light Up Lagos and so on. “I think Governor Ambode has done his best in terms of sustaining developments in Lagos State. You can see it some of the projects he has done in Airport road, Abule Egba fly over, pedestrian bridges , road infrastructures and so on”. “ In terms of physical projects, he has done so well and I think the people of Lagos State will forever remember him for the efforts he has made in the development of Lagos State today.” I Have Realized My Mistakes – Ambode