Okpekpe – The national chairman of the All Peoples Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, on Saturday rewarded 2016 Okpekpe Road Race winner, Simon Cheprot, for is humanitarian gesture during the race Cheprot, who placed second in 2018 edition of the race, has abandoned his race to assist a colleague, who fell few meters to the finish line and could not help himself to his feet. Realising that the athlete who fell needed assistance, Cheprot lifted the colleague cross the finish line before beckoning to the medical team to come to his aid. Cheprot, one of the athletes favoured to win the race placed 15th Oshiomhole rewarded Cheprot with $3,000, saying that Cheprot’s action was very touching. “Cheprot’s action was very touching For him (Cheprot) to forfeit his ambition to assist a fellow human being is something worth emulating. “I will therefore donate my pension when put together is about $3,000 to him,” said Oshiomole. It was not only Oshiomhhole who rewarded Cheprot. The organizers gave him $2,000 and $1,000 to te athlete that fell. The Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, was also not left out as he gave Cheprot $5,000. “This is the major highlight of road race,” he said. Meanwhile, for the first time, a non African won the race beating the Kenyans, the Ethiopians, who have dominated the race since inception in 2013. Dawit Fikadu, from Barhain did the magic winning the race in 28min.48secs to beat Ethiopian Berehamu Tsegu who returned 28mins.49secs to the second place. John Kipsanga Dotian from Kenya placed third. However, Fikadu is from Ethiopia, but changed nationality, blamed weather for the not too impressive time, saying that he was happy to win. As a result of his failure to break the course record of 28min 35secs, he won $13,000 and not the $20,000 meant for any athlete that breaks the course record. Fikadu winning the race meant that no athlete has won the road race twice. He became the seventh athlete to win the Okpekpe road race. He said that he change nationality not for financial reasons but for him to be fulfilled as an athlete. In the women’s race, Kenyan Sheila Chelangat denied any foreigner taking the title winning 33mins 14secs. Another Kenyan, Tuitoek Dorcas Jepchir placed second with Ethiopian Kasegn Alemtse Arefa placing third. Emmanuel Gyang Gwon won the first Nigerian to breast the tape winning in 31mins 42 seconds while William Amponsah and Stephen Daylop Joshua placed second and third respectively Deborah Pam Badung was the first female Nigeria to cross the finish line in 38mins13 seconds. Hudung Gyang Stephen placed second while Olude Fadekemi placed third