The Anti-Cultism unit of the Lagos State police command has intercepted nine locally made guns brought into Lagos from another State to disrupt the just concluded re-run National Assembly election in Ajegunle area. A very reliable source told the Daily Independent that three persons whom some politicians contracted for the job were arrested. The Independent National Electoral Commission, on April 27, conducted a rerun elections for Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency in Lagos. It gathered that one of the suspects was contacted in another state (name of state withheld due to ongoing investigation) for the guns supply before the election, unfortunately, the suspect could not meet up the demand then. A NAN report had it that “The suspect decided to bring the guns after the election as he had been promised payment when delivered. The suspect was arrested at Jibowu bus stop on his arrival from the state,” Speaking to NAN, one of the suspects, Aliu Mohammed, who claimed he brought the guns from his state, said one elderly man who produced them requested him to deliver the guns to his friend Abu Shittu. “My name is Aliu Mohammed, I just graduated from secondary school; I am 22 years old. I am the last born of 14 children. One elderly man gave me the guns to give to Shittu in Lagos. Each gun cost N8, 000 from the man in my state. “I was arrested at Jibowu immediately I arrived from my state. Shittu requested for the guns to protect some people during the election. I know it is a crime carrying gun illegally. I don’t know what came over me,” he told NAN For Abu Shittu, he admitted that he requested for the guns from Mohammed, saying that he wanted to get the guns to protect some politicians who contacted him before the re-run national assembly election into Ajegunle. “My name is Abu Shittu, 29- year- old sound engineer. I am also an Eiye Cult group member in Ajegunle. Before the re-run election, some politicians belonging to two political parties (names withheld) requested for protection. “I called Aliu Mohammed in his state if he can supply five guns. He agreed,but did not bring the guns before the election day. I have to contact one Hayatu on the day of election who only supply one gun we used that day “Mohammed later brought the guns after election. Our plan is to sell and return the money to the manufacturer,” he said. The spokesman for the Lagos police command DSP Bala Elkana confirmed the arrest, stressing that investigation was ongoing. Elkana said they were on the trail of all mentioned suspects within and outside the state, stressing that all police operatives in Lagos were on red alert, including the anti-cultism unit led by CSP Uduak Udom to intercept the guns. The image maker said no criminal will enter Lagos State and go scot free, noting that all the entry and exit points of Lagos, including motor parks and bus stops were serious policed by undercover and others. (NAN)