ABUJA – Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has prayed the National and State House of Assembly Election Tribunal to dismiss a petition filed against his victory by Mr. Chris Nkwonta, a candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the 2019 general elections. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Abaribe winner of the Abia South senatorial election, having polled a total of 53,086 votes to defeat Nkwonta with 27,998. But Nkwonta is contending at the tribunal that there were discrepancies evident in the face of the result in the polling units and wards which showed widespread electoral fraud in favour of Abaribe and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Nkwonta also alleged that there were manifest non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) and the manual for election officials as well as the Regulations and Guidelines issued by INEC for the conduct of the elections. However, in his notice of preliminary objection filed by his counsel, Mr. Chukwuma-Machukwu Ume (SAN), Senator Abaribe is also praying the tribunal to strike out the petition for being incompetent. Abaribe specifically noted that the petitioners’ figures of 75, 735 purported accredited voters as well as the alleged 86, 774 votes were not figures known to have come from INEC or material to his election and return. Ume argued that the processes filed by the Nkwonta and his party did not have the mandatory National Identification Number (NIM) of the legal practitioner that presented them for filling. He attacked some paragraphs of the petition which he contended were fraught with fictitious figures unrelated to the facts and figures material to the National Assembly (Abia South Senatorial district) election held on February 23, 2019 and March 9, 2019. The Senator’s counsel further argued that the tribunal lacked the requisite jurisdiction to entertain “issues, events and facts used for the conduct of the 2019 gubernatorial elections” as contained in Paragraph 20 of the petition. More so, Umeh had argued that “All paragraphs of the petition including but not limited to paragraphs 18, 19, 20, 21, 24 and 27 (3-4) and every other paragraph of the petition relating to and being grounded on the use of Card Reader or such device as exclusive means of accreditation of voters and or means of transmission of the election results of the National Assembly (Abia South senatorial district) held on February 23, 2019 and March 9, 2019, such being unknown to any legislation, are incompetent and liable to be struck out.”