Antonio Conte has reportedly added Chelsea loanee Victor Moses to his Inter Milan wishlist ahead of his expected move to the San Siro at the end of the season. The 49-year-old former Chelsea manager is set to take charge of the Serie A outfit following their final fixture of the 2018-19 campaign at the weekend. Conte is lining up targets he hopes to bring in this summer and ex-Blues winger Moses is a player he is keen on, according to FCInterNews.it. The pair worked together for Conte’s two years at Stamford Bridge from 2016 and Moses played an important role in Chelsea lifting the Premier League trophy during the 2016-17 campaign. Moses, whose current contract at Chelsea is set to expire in June 2021, could reportedly move to Italy for £11million. Following the introduction of Maurizio Sarri into the Blues hot seat last summer the 28-year-old played just a small number of games before being sent out on an 18-month loan to Turkish side Fenerbahce. He has made 13 appearances and scored three goals since his January switch. Fenerbahce’s final match of the campaign takes place on Sunday evening. Inter could appoint Conte as early as next week with Luciano Spalletti expected to leave. However, Moses says he needed to play football after a lack of game time at Chelsea prompted an 18-month January loan move to Fenerbahce. Despite being a key member of Antonio Conte’s 2016- 17 Premier League title-winning side, Moses made only five appearances under the Italian’s successor Maurizio Sarri this season. He has scored thrice in 13 Super Lig games and has helped his temporary club climb into the top half. “It’s tough, as Chelsea’s a very special place for me and I’ve always had a great relationship with the fans but it became very obvious that I was not in the manager’s plans,” Moses told The Guardian. “I have achieved great things there but I just needed to play football and that’s why I got the move to Fenerbahce.” “When I came here, everyone was a little bit shocked by the position they were in and that was the main reason why I came, as a big club like Fenerbahce should not be in a position like that,” he added.