Comrade Mulade Sheriff, a frontline Niger Delta activist, human right crusader and community leader, Comrade Mulade Sheriff has bemoaned the sorry state of Delta State Oil Producing Area Development Commission, DESOPADEC, and claimed that the Commission has metamorphosed from conceptual creation as a beacon of hope but now bridled with the antics of propaganda by politicians who enjoy and feed on the prowls of the agency. Against the foregoing background, he called on Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State to urgently dissolve and restructure the Commission into ethnic development agencies, alleging that DESOPADEC has drifted from the original purpose for which it was established, that is, to develop oil producing communities of the State. He noted that the Commission now serves the political party in power and other interest groups to the detriment of the host communities. According to him, “Beneficiaries of the system are taking advantage of the administrative imbalance as well as misappropriation in the agency, borne out of unbridled and endemic corruption and political favoritism. He alleged that the current DESOPADEC has become a hocus-pocus, a kind of conduit pipe, monumental fraud tank, used by some unpatriotic State officials to rob oil producing communities of their much needed socio-economic development. Lamenting further he said, “Every day the people get poorer for it, while the operative of the agency smile around since they enrich themselves and their cronies with contracts while they place before our very eyes fake development schemes.” Mulade therefore called on Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to urgently abolish the current structure which to him is bedeviled by misappropriation, deception and secrecy, and adopt an ethnic development Commission, which correlation will be clearer and better embraced, where the people will feel the impact of the agency, with the communities choosing their respective credible and trusted ethnic representatives in a democratic process devoid of political manipulation. This is what democracy is all about, as it is a government of the people for the people and by the people. He pointed out that the purpose of establishing DESOPADEC has been compromised, as the interventionist agency allegedly now serves parochial interests of only the party in power or Political loyalists who are appointees of the Commission. He claimed that the Board and Management of DESOPADEC have totally deviated from its original vision and mission by engaging in elephant projects to impress the people instead of building physical structures in the oil producing communities that need urgent development. Comrade Mulade urged Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to listen to the yearning of the vast majority of progressive mind in the State and restructure the Commission into forms comprising the five ethnic groups with the current sharing formula or percentages, and establish same as an Ethnic Development Agency. He said this would create a sense of ownership among the ethnic groups and also an enabling environment for rapid development in the State.