LAGOS – Mr. Ibiyinka Macaulay, who survived series of life threatening ailments including renal failure, blood poison and septic shock, has declared that his remaining days on earth would be centered on amputees and bringing succour to the downtrodden in the society. Macaulay, President of Ibiyinka Macaulay Foundation (IBMF), who had his left leg and right fingers amputated due to septic shock, told journalists at a briefing that his survival after 66 days in coma was through divine intervention, hence his decision to give back to the society. Over the weekend his foundation’s visited and made donations to some indigents homes including Modupe Cole Memory Child Care and Treatment Home, Akoka, Lagos; Tower Of Refuge Orphanage/ Motrherless Babies Home and Lagos Cheshire Home, Mushin, Lagos. Also on Monday the foundation commissioned boreholes, renovated toilets and presented generating sets and television to some schools in Surulere, Lagos while IBMF fed the indigents around Ebute Metta and Surulere axis of the state. Narrating his health ordeal at the briefing, he said, “I am the fourth generation of late Herbert Macaulay, I lived in the UK and got married. I had three daughters. In October 2011, I started feeling feverish and an ambulance took me to the hospital. For six hours, they did not take any blood test. I woke up 14 weeks later at the Kings College Hospital, London, and I was in a coma for a long period of time. “I had an organ shutdown, which led to septic shock. I lost my left leg and some fingers on my right hand, but the Almighty God brought me back for a reason. It took a long time for me to recover fully and I am still going through the process of recovery. “I am very grateful to the Almighty God for giving me a second chance. The reason I set up this foundation is to help humanity and give back to the society, because I know I did not bring anything to the world and I won’t take anything back. So I am ready to help everybody.” The business man, who disclosed that the official launch of IBMF, Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) would come later in the year, however, advised individuals to have empathy for others. In her comment, his wife, Mrs. Yinka Macaulay noted that her husband’s health challenges changed her perspective to life and the way she views others. She said that IBMF will not look back in “helping the physically challenged and communities.”