ABUJA – It’s disheartening to know that millions of Nigerian children between the ages of five (5) and seventeen (17) have suddenly become the breadwinner of their families in place of their parents and guardians. These children are sent out to do menial jobs at the expense of their education such as hawking, welding, bricklaying, pick pocketing, prostitution, scavenging, child soldiers, street begging, subjecting them to long hours of labour in a dangerous and unhealthy environment. These jobs are basically exploitative and injurious to the physical, social, cognitive and moral development of the child who is the leader of tomorrow. According to the 2016/2017 Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, (MICS) about 50.8 percent of Nigerian children are involved in one form of child labour or the other. This is to say that, more than half of Nigerian children are engaged in this demeaning act. Standing and watching with great disappointment, this reporter saw four (4) boys within the ages of 10 to 14, busy welding iron together under scorching sun at a welding workshop in Zuba in Gwagwalada Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Signaled to one of them, Mustapha Ibrahim told our reporter how he started working there. Mustapha, who spoke through an interpreter said, “I was only six when my father enrolled me as an apprentice. I have worked for five years, now I am 11. My father enrolled me because he is poor and cannot cater for the needs of the family. Being the first son, he wanted me to learn the trade and become a master of my own so that I will be able to support the family. The little money my boss gives me, I take it home and we use it mostly to buy food stuffs and for other domestic use. We work day in day out even on Sundays.” This is similar to the other three in the welding workshop and several others who worked under the rain, the scorching sun for long hours just to put food on the tables of their parents. You may want to say that it is only the boys that go through this cycle of child labour, more so, many girls in Abuja satellite towns will paint theirs faces with different types of makeup and will hawk from morning till night, exposing them to physical and sexual abuse. Amina Yusuf, 12, who looks like ‘Amariya’ a newly wedded wife with the kind of makeup she was wearing and the tattoos that adored her hands and legs, said through an interpreter that she has been hawking since she was six years. Her father has four wives and that all the wives must provide for the family. Therefore, all the girls have to take to hawking to make ends meet. “It’s like a competition among the wives. They compete to bear children. They compete to win their husband’s love by providing good food for the husband especially when it is their turn to play host to their husband. So everyone of us have to hustle to make our mother on top of her game. We hawk different kind of wares day-in day-out even at night we use touch light to sell.” Recounting a nasty experience of Salamatu (one of her co- hawkers), Amina said, she was hawking when some ‘okada’ (motorcycle riders) lured her into one corner and gang raped her. According to her, “this is just one case among so many that has been happening around us on a daily basis. Most of us are tired of hawking but are afraid to stop because if we stop, our parents will not be able to cope with our domestic needs because they are not working.” Similarly, Enoh Akpabio, 14, from Akwa Ibom was trafficked to Abuja as a maid. According to her, every day, she wakes up by 4am and will not retire to bed until everyone in the house has gone to bed like 11pm and sometimes 12midnight. Her duty is to do all the house chores ranging from sweeping, cooking, bathing and preparing the children for school, doing the laundering among many others. The unfortunate thing is that her parents have collected her money for one year from her employer. The poor girl works year-in, year-out without being able to save a dime. What most of the child maids go through in the hands of their employers are horrid tales that one won’t wish any of his or her enemies to go through. Meanwhile, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) describes child labour as work that children should not be doing because they are too young to work, and because it is dangerous or otherwise unsuitable for them. The ILO conventions stipulate that, whether or not any particular form of work can be called child labour depends on the child’s age, the type and hours of work performed and the conditions under which it is performed. Unfortunately, many Nigerian children have been exposed to this unacceptable practice of child labour. According to the 2016/2017, MICS, more than half of Nigeria’s 79 million children between the ages of 5 and 17 are put to work under hazardous conditions. Why then do parents engage their children in child labour? The truth is not farfetched. In Nigeria, findings have linked child labour to poverty, urbanisation , ignorance, illiteracy and broken homes. The Acting Secretary, Social Development Secretariat (SDS), of the Federal Capital Territory Administration, Hajia Safiya Umar in an interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT said “it’s a pity that after thirty (30) years when Nigeria ratified the Conversation of the Right of the Child (CRC), abuse of children is still very high.” Umar added that, “It’s troubling to see how children suddenly take up adults responsibilities. It is the parents and guardians that should provide for the needs of their children until they are of age but hardship has forced them to expose these children to forced labour.” She further stated that the height of child abuse is disheartening owing to the fact that Nigeria has a child Right Act which is supposed to protect the right, dignity and vulnerability of a child. “These children are made to walk a long distance in hunger, wearing unpleasant clothes and most of all in all weather conditions.” According to her, these children are exposed to all sorts of risks which include “but not limited to accidents, kidnapping, sexual exploitation especially for the female child, health challenges as well as learning dubious behaviors which may likely metamorphose into criminal activities and consequently may put the society into jeopardy.”