LAGOS – The re-election bid of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state got a major boost on Wednesday as the Forum of All Progressives Congress (APC) National and State Assembly members-elect unanimously endorsed him for a second term in office. Matthew Kolawole, the Speaker of Kogi state House of Assembly, who addressed the media on behalf of members of the forum in Lokoja, said the new direction administration led by Governor Bello has achieved a lot in the areas of security, education, infrastructure development, civil service reforms and human capital development. The forum therefore said there is the need for the governor, popularly called GYB to consolidate on those achievements in another four years saying it will be an abnormality for a coach to change a winning team in the first half of a match. “We have read in the national dailies and online platforms recently many rumours of sorts just to create animosity between the government and the people of the state, hence there is need to add our voice. All politics is local and the various constituencies which we represent are closest to the people of the grassroots. We are therefore in the best position to inform the media that 90% of the accusations of harshness and non-performance levied against His Excellency Yahaya Bello are unfounded”. “First, as a forum, we want to sincerely use this medium to appreciate our indefatigable, energetic, dynamic and vibrant young Governor and the leader of our party in Kogi State, His Excellency, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, for his giant efforts that culminated in our victory at the just concluded polls”. “For the first time, we have a detribalized Governor, that believes in the progress of the party and also recognize the 9 federal constituencies in the state. His love for the party and trust in us made him to provide all logistics for us to have a smooth sail at the polls”. “It is good to note at this juncture, that the great success of the All Progressive Congress APC in 2019 General Elections was as a result of the purposeful leadership of Governor Yahaya Bello in the state”. “The leadership and membership of the Kogi State Chapter of the Governing Party has grown from less than 50,000 members in 2015 to over 500,000 registered members today. We have gone from a fractured and divided house to a formidable championship side. One does not change a winning team in soccer after the first half of the match”. “There is no gainsaying that the current new direction administration led by Alhaji Yahaya Bello has achieved a lot in the area of security, education, infrastructure development, civil service reforms and human capital development, etc, hence there is need for him to consolidate”. “It is therefore based on the aforementioned reasons; we the APC National and State House of Assembly members-elect from Kogi State unanimously endorse Governor Yahaya Bello for a second term in office”. Speaking further, the lawmakers said they have resolved to put resources together to purchase the governorship nomination form for Bello and also mobilise their supporters across the three senatorial districts as well as citizens of the state for his reelection. “We have resolved to put resources together to purchase the gubernatorial nomination and expression of interest form of our party APC for our amiable governor to contest the 2019 governorship election in Kogi state. “We have also resolved to commence work toward his re-election bid at our various constituencies to meet with stakeholders like party leaders, traditional rulers, youth and women groups, opinion molders among others to spread the gospel of GYB to them. “We are all determined to mobilise as many people as possible to deliver our various constituency for the success of our governor and the party at the poll, being a detribalised individual who only believes in developing the entire state without considering tribe or religion” The speaker further said Governor Bello as a result of his popularity and acceptance in the state had delivered two senatorial seats out of three, seven House of Representative seats out of nine and 25 seats of the state assembly, maintaining that “there is no reason he will not be given the party’s ticket. On the alleged crisis in the state chapter of APC, the lawmakers said there is unity in the party, adding that those spreading the rumours of crisis are paid agents who are working for the opposition. “We wish to assure the national leadership of our party led by President Muhammadu Buhari and Comrade Adams Oshiomole that Kogi state APC is not in any crises whatsoever. “Those who run to the national secretariat of the party with stories to the contrary are persons who are not known to the party in Kogi state as members or stakeholders. They are spoilers enlisted to do the dirty deeds of the opponents of the party and must be ignored for our continued progress”. “We insist that our party procedures, due process and the rule of law must be the only considerations on how our flag-bearer for November 2019 Governorship Election emerge. It is also good to let the opposition know that there is no vacancy in Lugard House, Lokoja till January, 2024 when His Excellency Alhaji Yahaya Bello would be rounding up his second term in office”. “We therefore call on all and sundry to rally round the current administration in the state in respective of political affiliations to succeed for the benefit of all. The forum by this communiqué therefore, calls on party leaders from the Wards, Local Government, State and National Levels to support Governor Yahaya Bello and APC to secure another 4 years for him to move the state to the next level”. Lawmakers-elect who endorsed the reelection are Rt. Hon. Prince Matthew Kolawole, Kabba/Bunu State Constituency; Senator Jibril Isah Echocho, Kogi East Senator Elect; Senator Yakubu Oseni, Kogi Central Senator Elect; Hon David Zacharia, Idah Federal Constituency; Rt Hon Hassan Abdullahi Dekina/Bassa Federal Constituency; Hon Abdullahi Ibrahim, Ankpa Federal Constituency; Hon Tijani Damisa Okene/Ogori-Magongo Federal Constituency and Hon. Isah Okofi, Lokoja/Koto Federal Constituency. Others are Hon. Joseph Asuku Bello, Adavi/Okehi Federal Constituency; Hon Idris Lawal, Ajaokuta Federal Constituency; Hon. Bello Hassan Balogun, Ajaokuta State Constituency; Hon. Muktar Bajeh, Okehi State Constituency; Hon Ibrahim Usman Okadigbo, Adavi State Constituency; Hon. Lawi A.T. Ahmed Okene 1 State Constituency; Hon Moses Akande, Ogori/ Magongo State Constituency; Hon. Ahmed Dahiru (Hacco), Okene II State Constituency; Hon. John Abbah, Ibaji State Constituency and Hon Suleiman Attajachi Musa, Idah State Constituency. Hon Amodu Seidu Barry, Ofu State Constituency; Hon. Cosmas Ilemona Atabor, Igalamela/Odolu State Constituency; Hon Ahmed Mohammed Ahmed, Ankpa I State Constituency; Hon Rabiu Momoh Alfa; Ankpa II State Constituency; Hon Ujah Alewo Anthony, Olamaboro State Constituency; Hon. Prince Musa Attai H. C, Omala State Constituency; Hon Rai Daniya, Bassa State Constituency; Hon. Enema Paul, Dekina/ Okura State Constituency; Hon. Moses Edoko Ododo, Dekina/Biraidu State Constituency, Hon. Isah T. Umar, Lokoja I State Constituency; Hon. Hon Idris Ndako, Lokoja II State Constituency; Hon Amb. Kilani Olumo, Ijumu State Constituency. Hon. Jimoh Musa Omiata, Yagba East State Constituency; Hon. Bello Ademola, Mopa-Muro State Constituency; Hon. Deronke Aro, Yagba West State Constituency and Hon. Mohammed Abubakar Tanko, Kogi/Koton-Karfe State Constituency.