Hon. Oludare Falade is the former National Chairman of the Mega Progressives Peoples Party (MPPP), now Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN). Hon. Falade, now a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a Leader at the Odi-Olowo Local Council Development Authority (LCDA), spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential aspiration come 2013, among other issues. Excerpt: The 2019 general elections have come and gone. What is your take on the outcome? The outcome of the last general elections wan an indication that Nigerians are becoming more interested in the politics of the nation. Public opinions are being shaped. The average voter is becoming wiser on how on how to use his mandate. The rivalry we experienced between the opposing parties is a product of advancement of a democratic culture. We need to find a way of cultivating the violence of ideas and not violence of physical attacks. I believe we shall et there through appropriate sanctions or rule of law. How do you see the victory of the APC over the PDP and several other parties? It was an expected by the virtue of APC associating with the Progressive politics. Already, APC was the ruling party. If victory was not expected, between March and now, you would have seen aggressiveness in input as regards governance. The opposition really fought hard and is still fighting. APC needs to work harder to ensure that it does not lose the victory through the courts, both at state and national level. How capable do you think the Lagos State Governor-elect, Babajide Sanwo-Olu is in carrying on where Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode stopped, especially in the area of infrastructure? I believe that the incoming governor understands the terrain very well and will count on the support of his party’s political mind group. His government is advancing from allegations that affect the second term bidding of the outgoing governor. By background, Sanwo-Olu has a wide knowledge of what is there to do and how to do it. Beyond infrastructure, his government is going to better the lives of Lagosians, both residents and indigenes. The energy to do it is an added advantage. Age is on his side. He has the political sagacity. He has the education. He can mop resources, both human and capital. His ability and competence is not in doubt. Lagosians will experience betterment in their lives through improved governance. For how long do think Lagos will remain a one-party state under the control of the All Progressives Congress (APC)? APC will remain to steer the affairs of Lagos State in as much as the party remains in the ideals of Progressive politics and the large chunk of Progressive elements remain in the party. In the days of UPN and NPN, it was a taboo to leave UPN and work for a conservative party. Lagosians are never conservative in nature. Till date, Lagos is still Progressive. Don’t you think that it the influence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu that is still holding the party together, especially in Lagos? Asiwaju Tinubu is a product of Progressivism. The party made him a governor in 1999. He is matured to lead the party. He has served great men of the party and made people. He is qualified to lead the party to provide such leadership. His emergence was part of the succession plan of the party. He is the political leader of this season. That is why he has a strong grip of the party. What advice would you offer to President Muhammadu Buhari in his second term? President Buhari’s second term must be an accomplishment of his wish and will of the people of Nigeria who have chosen him. The era of bandwagon effect based on regional cum ethnic factors is becoming the past. For any politician to survive, he must work hard to earn the trust of the people of Nigeria. He started well in his first term which he has to improve on. In the Eastern part of the country, his political network and statesmanship must come to the open in order to sustain the legacy of the party that he uses its network to actualise his dream. We want a situation that APC will be something to write home about in South East and South South under his leadership. Let people in the areas see the dividends of what he is doing through the APC and not through the opposition there. He should empower the APC members there. Any governor that controls a state may desire to suppress members of the opposition in the party not controlled by the APC. This will help the succession of his legacy. What is your take on the reported Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s Presidential aspiration come 2013? Asiwaju is a Nigerian. I believe if he so desires, he will receive the support of his people. In democracy, if you have demonstrated victory and capacity for other, it taken for granted if it comes to personal aspiration. If you deserve it, people will give you the love, the affection, the vote, the confidence, the appreciation and the opportunity. Do you see the North allowing Tinubu to take a shot at the Presidency? Don’t you see his aspiration causing an implosion within the APC? By 2023, our democratic culture will be moved speedily because low political and sordid thinking will be less attractive. A lot of things are involved now, especially with the expected amendment in the Electoral Act and constitutional amendment. Being a leader is an added advantage for Asiwaju Tinubu to be President because national leadership of a political party which is necessary for mobilisation, for victory is in his kitty. It will make him enjoy the spread of his popularity among party members and that will make him to work harder as he has controls with political opinion leaders, opinion moulders, shakers and movers of the party that will be the delegates to elect their leaders, being a national leader now is an added advantage. If he so desires to take a shot at the presidency. APC has got to the level that by the reformation that we are experiencing now, the party will embrace internal democracy, leading to the selection of only those found suitable for elective positions. Do you see the possibility of PDP dislodging APC in 2013? God forbid. But, political arithmetic can prove otherwise. Careful calculation as well as in and out of members can make it possible because there is no permanent friend or enemy in politics and it is difficult to read the mind of a fellow being. That is why a political associate is more important to a political astute than the wife or husband. My candid opinion is that the party (APC) should watch its back in all its dealings and who to empower. Don’t you think that another major coalition or merger may take place between now and 2023 that may become the real Third Force which may lead to the country having three major parties? If you don’t pass something, everything will end up passing you. Nigerin politicians, especially the small parties will definitely congregate. To borrow the words of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the small parties are repeater stations. They have to pursue such arrangements either for survival or for cheap popularity and harvest of disgruntled elements from the mainstream parties who may want to ventilate their ideas at their local constituencies. That is why such parties succeed in winning one or two seats in the local government or House of Assembly elections, but cannot go far. Politics is a serious business.