The Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) has come under severe criticism right from its inception, given the management of the league which its clubs are predominantly owned by various state governments across the federation. Today’s Nigerian league has become a shadow of itself reflecting back in time when the club sides in Nigeria were just twelve in number under the acronym of NFA (The Nigeria Football Association). Then Nigeria had a strong league; committed players; committed coaches and club management. The leagues back in the 70’s through 80’s were better. The likes of Enugu Rangers FC (Flying Antelopes); Bendel Insurance FC of old not the reformed; Calabar Rovers; Mighty Jets of Jos of Old; Stationary Stores FC of Old; IICC Shooting Stars FC of Ibadan; BCC Lions FC of Gboko; Spartans of Owerri FC; Sharks of Portharcourt; Elkanemi Warriors of Borno and a host of others which made the Nigerian league thick then. While this league with the aforementioned teams lasted in the past decades; they gave Nigeria and  indeed Africa the best of football. These teams were a dreaded side individually across Africa as most of them made exploits in the CAF league Championships and the Nation’s FA Cup tourney of yore. The truth about this beautiful league which produced the likes of Super Goalkeepers; Emmanuel Okala; Emmanuel Omiunu; Inua Rigogo; Peter Fregene; Peter Rufai; Best Ogedengbe; Edward Ansah; (Ghana), Patrick Okala (late) and a host of them were a delight to watch at any match scene. These were Goalkeepers of note with clear cut professional charisma! Hitherto, no club side in Nigeria in the NPFL has produced any of such goalkeepers in today’s league that is prided with sponsorship or television coverage that had remained opaque. I also observed that that league of yester-years had also produced legendary players like; Mathematical Segun Odegbami, very elastic scintillating left winger with great sense of ball control and dribbling skills on the periphery of the left flank. He was a fire brand footballer; with so much skill. Dimunitive Mudashiru Lawal was another midfield maestro who mesmerised the opposition with a rare football talent; Chief Justice Adokie Amasiemeka was a delight; Chairman Christian Chukwu, the Indisputable Skipper of the Flying Antelopes and the Green Eagles of Nigeria. Having said that, their welfare was paramount to the club administrators; hence, the players put in their best in the league and got massive results. The coaches were all taken care of even though, they were not taking home fat pays. However their salaries were consistent. This administrative strategy helped to keep both players, administrative staff and coaches intact and focused. There was no much sponsorship like we have today from multinational companies and individuals who have put in some dynamic touch of approach into the present league; yet  the challenges facing the NPFL today is worse than what can be imagined of the days of yore. The coaches in today’s NPFL league are very lazy; hence, they seek to jump from one club to another looking for where match victories could be easily secured. This is so true as most of the  administrators of these clubs prefer to pay or break the bank for a referee to give home matches victory either by hook or crook to the host team; this incidence which is very prevalent in today’s NPFL league officiating! The owners of today’s NPFL clubsides care less about the welfare of players and coaches  thereby destroying the standard of the league. I agree with Peter Edema Sport Editor Independent Newspapers that : “This sport that has become billion dollar industry in Europe, a sport that has become a huge employer of labour, a sport that has taken several people out of poverty and so many out of streets has been neglected and is now reeling under the yoke of poor leadership”. Certainly, our national teams and all negative factors that have bedeviled our sports and its administration can be mirrored from the aforementioned quote! Good Morning Nigeria!