Powered by RubiQube Ad Network LAGOS – The incidence of unemployment in Nigeria is alarming and fast climbing to a frightening height. The Nigerian Bureau of Statistics, in its recent report said the rate of unemployment in Nigeria increased to 23.10 percent in the third quarter of 2018 from 22.70 percent in the second quarter of that year. What that translates is that over 45 million people are without jobs or any means of livelihood in the country. The report also reveals that the highest figure of unemployed people is in South West Nigeria with Lagos topping the list. The situation is becoming more precarious by the day as many more are being thrown into the job market daily .It is very difficult for one to really conclude that all tiers of governments have not done anything to reduce unemployment in Nigeria. For instance, the government created the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) and its skills acquisition programmes, NAPEP, PAP, the SURE-P,YOUWIN, just to mention a few, which are some of the intervention schemes aimed at ensuring job creation , but the programmes are grossly inadequate to meet the staggering needs of the country. It is obvious that government alone cannot tackle or stem the rising level of unemployment necessitating proactive steps and measures from the private sector. The development prompted ‘getjobs.com’, a non-governmental organization to organize a job fair in Lagos recently with the aim of addressing the growing scourge of unemployment in the country especially among the youths. The job fair attracted over 800 job applicants drawn from Lagos, and other adjoining states in the south west. T In his opening remarks, the facilitator of the fair, Engineer Bamidele Idris, said: “The fair was instituted since 2017 owing to the high number of graduates churned out regularly from tertiary institutions and the very limited number of vacancies available to absorb them”. “Another motivating factor was the increasing incidence of extortions, scamming and fleecing of poor job applicants”. Bamidele added that his passion was to assist job applicants with genuine information of existing vacancies and for him to effectively achieve this, he started a WhatsApp group with friends who share vacancy openings which are disseminated through the platform. He said the platform soon exceeded its membership capacity and the need to accommodate new entrants led the organization to adopt telegram messenger,another online social platform which currently has a total of 10,700 job applicants constantly furnished with various job openings.