Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Prime Minister of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, has lashed out Thursday against the European Union (EU) leaders for the double standards when addressing the issues related to Kosovo and Metohija. After receiving the European Commission (EC) annual report on her country in relation to the steps taken to be an EU-country member, Ana Brnabic stated that it is basically positive issue since it recognizes progress in some areas, mainly in the economy. She, however, expressed hope that such assessment will be in future based on facts and not on political perceptions, as she pointed out in a meeting with the media outlets after receiving the document from Sem Fabrizi, Head of the EU delegation in Serbia. She also said that Serbia will go on implementing the EC recommendations and pay attention to the essences, not the forms. She also expressed concern regarding the current situation of Kosovo and Metohija, a Serbian province proclaiming unilateral independence in 2008, mainly because of continuing and increasingly repeating events such as the one held Wednesday when the law enforcement swarmed into the Serbian majority municipalities and busted several citizens. ‘I am pretty concerned about the lack of specific reactions from the EU to everything is happening there, especially because it has now been 2226 days since the signing of the Brussels agreement and the obligation to establish the Association of Serb Municipalities (ACS for Spanish)’, she remarked. Likewise, she added that the EU is the guarantor of such an agreement and its application, but the report only reads that Pristina ‘still has to commit itself to establishing the ACS’, described as a double standard. The Head of Government, when agreeing with that, expressed her deeply concern about the insufficient reaction of Wednesday’s incidents, but also because Kosovo has not only violated the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) since November 6, but also the EUÂ´s Stabilization and Association Process (SAP) agreement. She was referring to the imposition by Pristina of a 100 percent tax on Serbian and Bosnia and Herzegovina products. Finally, she held that whether the EU is in favor of the rule of law and harps on this issue, then it should do so when the Kosovar authorities are questioned, guarantee the application of the Brussels agreement on ACS and also honor the SAP agreement, since there are some mechanisms in them about what really happens if someone violates them.