Lagos – Nigerian football is not immune to corruption allegation. It’s something that has been said in hush tones. From use of players with questionable ages in the prosecution of age grade tournaments and outright payment by players’ agents in order to secure a sport for their wards has become an everyday issue. And this allegation is not limited to age grade teams, the Super Eagles coaches are also alleged to be involved in this dastardly act. There is hardly any coach of the national teams that has not been accused of wanting to collect money so as to get a player into the team, whether the player merits it or not. Coach Adegboye Onigbinde, while preparing the Super Eagles for the 2002 World Cup alleged that a player agent gave him $30,000 for him to include a player in his team. He rejected the offer and subsequently dropped the player. So when penultimate Friday, David Alaba, Bayern Munich revealed that he was denied the opportunity of playing for Nigeria  during the 2007 FIFA U-17 World Cup in South Korea U-17 because of his refusal to part with money, there were few eye brows raised. In the allegation, Alaba who decided to play for Austria, said that he trained with the likes of Lukman Haruna, Macauley Chrisantus and Rabiu Ibrahim ahead of the tournament in South Korea 2007 and impressed during the training camp. His mother, according to him, refused the coaches advances convincing him to play for Austria, his country of birth. Alaba, born in Vienna, Austria, to a Filipino mother and Nigerian father, was eligible to represent the Super Eagles before he eventually settled for Austria, his country of birth. Speaking recently, the 26-year-old has labelled the Nigeria coaches ‘jokers’ and has vowed not to respond to their greetings if he is approached by the coaches. Though, Nigeria eventually won the tournament, Alaba would have undoubtedly gone on to become a shining star of the Super Eagles. A six-time Austrian Footballer of the Year, Alaba has earned 68 caps for Austria, scoring 13 goals and representing them at the 2016 European Championship. He holds Austria’s record as the youngest player to play for their senior national team, having made his debut in 2009 as a 17-year-old. As a very versatile player, he has played in a multitude of roles, including central midfield, central defence, right and left wing, but has since blossomed as a left-back since debuting for Bayern in 2009; Alaba has won a total of 15 titles. However, Alaba’s allegation on Nigerian coaches is not new in the country and in Africa in general as there have been similar cases in the past. For instance, Cameroonian father of the World Cup sensation, Kylian Mbappe said that he wanted his son to play for the Central African nation but the dream was crushed due to corruption. In a widely circulated statement, Wilfried Mbappe was quoted saying “someone” at the Cameroon FA charged a sum of money he could not part with for his son to be called up to the Indomitable Lions. “At first, I wanted my son to play for Cameroon but, someone at the Cameroon Football Federation (CFF) charged a sum of money that I didn’t have to make him play. The French didn’t charge anything,” the senior Mbappe reportedly said. It would be recalled that Kylian, 19, was among the shining lights for France in the recently concluded FIFA World Cup in Russia, scoring four goals including one in the 4-2 win against Croatia in the Final. He thus became the second teenager to score in a World Cup Final after the legendary Pele. In another similar situation, former Super Eagles coach and now of blessed memory, Stephen Keshi was accused of ‘dropping’ Ike Uche from the team ahead of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, but he later denied the allegation that he did not dropped the player because of demand for money. Keshi made the denial while facing the press at an event ahead of the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Keshi, who had come under scathing criticism in some sections of the press over his refusal to select the Villarreal striker, was clear in his reply: “There’s no way I’m not playing Uche because he didn’t allow me to be his manager, everything is not always about money. “Equatorial Guinea offered me four times what Nigeria are paying me, if it is about money, I would have gone to them, money is never an issue. “The fact is I cannot condone any player who is not there for the team. The Super Eagles is my life, anyone who is against the Super Eagles will face my wrath. In a related development, the same late Keshi denied the allegation that he dropped Sunday Mba, who was the hero of the 2013 AFCON from the 2014 FIFA World Cup on the demand for money. According to him, Mba was dropped because of the controversies surrounding his ownership rights as he was torn between playing for Warri Wolves and Rangers, a situation that kept him from playing for many months. Before then, Mba has not played a competitive match since the end of the AFCON where he scored the winning goal for Nigeria against Burkina Faso in the final. And just last year, another Nigerian coach, Salisu Yusuf was banned for allegedly demanding money from players before they could be in his team for major competitions. Yusuf, Chief Coach of the Super Eagles, was handed a one-year ban after a video of him surfaced receiving $1,000 bribe to influence players’ list. The Ethics and Fair Play Committee of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) investigated Salisu, after he was filmed by a Ghanian investigative reporter, Anas Aremeyaw Anas, receiving bribe to file two players, Osas Okoro and Rabiu Ali, in the 2018 CHAN Competition in Morocco. Salisu was also directed to pay a fine of $5,000 to the NFF within three months, just as he has been asked to stay away from football-related activities, while his ban lasts. It was concluded that Salisu received the cash gift though it could not ascertain if the gift influenced his decision to select the players because the two players could have made the team on the basis of their talent and performance. As expected, however, Yusuf denied being bribed to field players claiming that the money was not an inducement and fell within guidelines from the world governing body, FIFA, and the NFF about accepting gifts. He also claimed that the money he collected was $750, not $1,000. Meanwhile, spokesman of the NFF, Demola Olajire in his response to the allegation by Alaba, urged the player to be specific by mentioning the name or names of the coaches that made the demand. “For us to really get to the root of this allegation and  bring the culprit or culprits to book, let the player mention the name or names of the coach or coaches that are involved in the allegation. “This will aide our findings and will also let others sit up for the development of our football and for the future of our young and talented players,” said Olajire. Veteran journalist, Patrick Omorodion urged the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) not to throw the allegation of Alaba under the carpet as it was a serious issue. “Unfortunately, the chief coach of that team is now dead and it is a tradition that you don’t talk evil of the dead, but then the leadership of the NFF should not wave the issue aside but investigate what really led to the player (Alaba) not playing for his fatherland”, said Omorodion. Another Sports journalist, Raji Mohammed, said the situation is very bad as it affects the development of grassroots football in the country and it must be corrected on time before more damage is done. According to him, late Yemi Tella, who was in charge of the team, was a very thorough coach who was very strict but might have fallen to pressures even from the football authorities in the country. “Cash for national team call-ups is rampant is not peculiar to Nigeria but in Africa in general, where corruption and patronage supersedes merit. “But the situation is getting out of hands and our administrators must address it on time before it gets to the worst. “We really need to develop our grassroots football where we parade true and talented young players for major competitions and years after, they can still play for the country very well. “This should be our priority and not just to attend competitions with the sole aim of winning and not to develop our talents”, he said.