LAGOS – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has charged the Super Falcons to reach the semi-final of the FIFA Women’s World Cup that will kick off in France next month. The 8th edition of the tournament will kick off June 7 and ends July 7 in France. Nigeria are one of the 24 teams taking part in the tournament. The NFF call means Falcons should surpass their quarter-final outing at the same tournament held in the USA in 1999. Mohammed Sanusi, the NFF General Secretary, gave the charge on Monday night at their Serob Legacy Hotel, Abuja, before the players left for their final camping ahead of the World Cup. Sanusi, while admonishing them, congratulated the ladies for winning the just ended WAFU Cup tournament in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, urging them to do the nation great in France. “I believe the triumph in Abidjan will spur you to greater things at the World Cup in France. As you go to Austria for the final camping programme and from there to the World Cup, I want you to go with the belief and confidence that you have the capacity to defeat any team in the world. “It is 20 years ago that we accomplished what remains our best performance at the FIFA Women’s World Cup – a quarter-final berth in USA. It is time to write a new record, and I know that as you play Norway, Korea Republic and France in the group phase, this aspiration will be close to your hearts,” he charged the players. “No team can browbeat you. Rather, let them fear you by the confidence and ability that you show on the pitch.” Meanwhile the players arrived at the Avita Resort facility in the Austrian city of Bad Tatzmannsdorf for a two –week residential camping ahead of the tournament on Tuesday. A delegation including nine home –based professionals and technical and administrative staff departed from Abuja on Monday night aboard an Air France flight, and travelled from Paris to the Austrian capital, Vienna on Tuesday morning before connecting Bad Tatzmannsdorf. At the airport in Vienna, nine overseas –based professionals joined the contingent, taking the number of players to 18. With England –based Ini-Abasi Umotong already waiting in camp that made the total number 19, with only eight more expected.