NNEWI – Members of the Police Community Relation Committee (PCRC) Onitsha Area Command, Anambra State, have  honoured Baba Tijani, the AIG in-charge of Zone 9; Mr. John Abang, Anambra State Police Commissioner, among others for their positive contribution to crime fighting in the state. The officers were honoured Wednesday at a brief ceremony held at the Police Area Command PCRC hall Onitsha. Presenting the awards to the recipients sir Victor Agubuisi the Chairman of the PCRC noted that the awards were given to recipients as a result of their positive contributions to the maintenance of security in the state adding that their achievements in that area have contributed immensely in the state being regarded as one of the states in the country with the lowest crime rate He tasked recipients of the awards to maintain the tempo and strive to excel further in order to act as inspiration to others in various services to the nation and the society in general. Speaking specifically on the Anambra State police boss, the chairman of the PCRC described him as an exceptional police officer who within his short stay in the state has done tremendously on crime fighting in the state which has resulted to the low crime rate adding that his synergy with the state Governor Willie Obiano as well as others have stabilised security in the state. Responding on behalf of all the awardees, the Police Commissioner, Mr. John Abang thanked the association for honouring them noting that the recognition will motivate the police in the state to aim higher while assuring that the Police Command will now be more committed to protect lives and properties especially during this ember months and appealed to resident to cooperate with the command by volunteering vital information that will further enhance their activities. Thirty individuals were issued with meritorious  awards among them are Baba Tijani the AIG in-charge of zone 9, Mr. John Abang  Anambra State police commissioner, SP Haruna Mohammed, the state’s Police  Image Maker, Chief Ikechukwu Aduba  retired Delta State Commissioner, Of Police, several senior police officers in the state including three Divisional Police Officers in Onitsha. Others are SP Ifeanyi Iburu, John Okeke, a lawyer, CSP Rabiu Garuba, in-charge of central police station, Head bridge, Fegge police division respectively all in Onitsha, Chief Chinenye Ihenko, Chairman vigilante services Anambra North senatorial zone and an Enugu State based alternative Medicine Practitioner Professor Dr. Joseph Okoro Akpa for their positive contribution to the success of crime fighting in Anambra State.