Temidayo Akinsuyi;Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has slammed Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), asking him to focus on resolving the multiple crises bedevilling the party as regards the 2023 presidential election and stop dragging it into the issue. It also knocked the All Progressives Congress (APC) over what it described as unwarranted invectives on former President Goodluck Jonathan. Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, in an exclusive chat with Daily Independent on Sunday, said it was absurd for the APC to link it with posters of the party’s chieftains who are nursing the ambition to contest the 2023 presidential election. While wondering why the PDP would be printing campaign posters for APC members, the PDP spokesman admonished the APC national chairman to look inward and address the problems facing the party rather than shifting the blame to the opposition. It would be recalled that Oshiomhole had last week, during a reconciliation meeting with the party’s stakeholders and aggrieved governorship aspirants from Bayelsa State, said the PDP was behind posters of certain chieftains of the ruling party for the 2023 presidency. Some of the posters that have been sighted in certain parts of the country include that of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the party’s national leader; Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State, and Oshiomhole himself. According to Oshiomhole, “I want to completely disassociate myself and members of our party from all those posters. “We believe that these are the handwork of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who thinks that they can create suspicion within the rank of APC by using some elements to print posters to create complete diversion. “So, I stand here as national chairman of the APC not only to deny those posters as they affect me but to deny those posters as they affect any leader of our party, because it is not yet time.” While describing Oshiomhole’s claim as mere distraction, the PDP said it was focused on retrieving its stolen presidential mandate freely given to it by Nigerians during the 2019 general elections at the Supreme Court. “The APC and its national chairman should stop making unfounded allegations. Rather, they should look inward into their problems. “What is the business of the PDP in printing posters for APC members in respect of the 2023 presidential election? Is that not illogical? “We are currently holding them to the ground in respect of the outcome of the 2019 presidential election at the Supreme Court and we are asking that our stolen mandate be returned to us. “We are focused on this and we will not allow anything to distract us until victory is secured. “So, is it not absurd that we will now be making 2023 posters for APC members? It is the internal strife within the APC and the Buhari presidency that is manifesting publicly and they should leave the PDP out of it. “The PDP as we speak is not interested in the politics of 2023. Our interest right now is that the Supreme Court justices do justice and return our stolen mandate given to APC by INEC,” Ologbondiyan said. Your Insult On Jonathan More Appropriate For Buhari, PDP Tells APC Similarly, the PDP on Sunday took the APC to task over what it described as the ruling party’s unwarranted invective thrown at former President Goodluck Jonathan. The party said the attack was misdirected as it better suited President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC administration which, it said, had gone down as the most incompetent and corrupt in the history of Nigeria. The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the distortions and groundless attack on Jonathan was a desperate tactic by the APC and the Buhari presidency to divert public attention from the recent shocking corruption and fraud revelations in which close relatives and confidants of Mr. President were mentioned. “The PDP has been made aware of how the presidency has been in a frenzy to suppress investigations and deflect public enquiries from the arrest of President Buhari’s known confidant deported from the United Kingdom for alleged international passport scam and money laundering, as it knows that an inquest will further expose the huge rot in the Buhari presidency. “Our party has equally been made aware of how the APC and the Buhari presidency have been desperate to divert public attention from the administration’s obnoxious decision to further oppress Nigerians by reintroducing tollgates on our highways, increasing Value Added Tax (VAT), electricity bill and other tariffs as well as their despicable plot to sack government workers,” it said. The PDP charged the APC and the Buhari presidency to perish the idea of thinking that these unnecessary distortions on the Jonathan administration would bury the demand for an inquest into the Danu racket through which billions of naira meant for the wellbeing of Nigerians were allegedly diverted to private purses. The PDP invited Nigerians to note how the APC had remained silent since the revelations that its key leaders and the cabal at the presidency were involved in the stealing of over N14 trillion meant for the wellbeing of Nigerians. “Our party further challenges the APC and the Buhari presidency to speak out on the alleged diversion of the N500 billion meant for the Social Investment Programme, among other humongous fraud directly perpetrated under the Buhari presidency. “Furthermore, in trying to tar the PDP, the APC forgets that it is already common knowledge that all the bad eggs that brought a bad name to the PDP have since left our repositioned party to the APC where their national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who also has a huge corruption allegation on his neck, admitted that the party is a haven for corrupt persons. “Moreover, the fact that President Buhari can only surround himself with persons openly indicted for corruption as ministers and advisers, speaks volume of the administration’s posturing on corruption. “The PDP, therefore, charges the APC not to think that it can cover its mess by trying to make unfounded allegations against President Goodluck Jonathan and the PDP as Nigerians can now see through their shenanigans,” the party said.