Wild’s lawyers filed her petition on Monday, asking the appeals court to order the federal judge who oversaw the civil case to provide substantial relief to Epstein’s underage sex victims after he refused to do so last month. “The district court’s ruling turns [the Crime Victims’ Relief Act] into a hollow promise for victims and should be overturned,” attorney Paul Cassell wrote on behalf of Wild. The new petition is challenging U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra’s decision that Wild and others are not eligible for any major relief, even though he found federal prosecutors violated the rights of Epstein’s victims by leaving them in the dark about his non-prosecution agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Miami. That office has recused itself in the civil case and is represented by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Atlanta, which is expected to respond to Wild’s appeal this fall. Wild and another plaintiff, Jane Doe 2, wanted the judge to restore the originally planned federal sex-trafficking charges against Epstein in South Florida, but Marra refused go that far for a couple of reasons. Epstein, 66, died in August, found hanging in a Manhattan jail cell following his arrest on renewed sex-trafficking charges by New York authorities. Marra also said he did not have the authority to order federal prosecutors in South Florida to charge him, even before Epstein’s death. In his mid-September ruling, Marra left open the possibility that certain requests by the victims could be fulfilled. They wanted to meet with prosecutors and get an explanation for why the U.S. Attorney’s Office in South Florida didn’t seek a sex trafficking indictment against Epstein when he was initially investigated 10 years earlier, why they kept the status of the case secret from the victims. But Wild’s petition to the 11th U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta said Marra’s decision failed Epstein’s victims. Wild’s petition seeks to have the appeals court order Marra to invalidate provisions of Epstein’s 2008 non-prosecution agreement barring the prosecution not just of him, but of his co-conspirators, who were suspected of recruiting underage girls to have sex with him at his Palm Beach mansion. Her petition also requests a court hearing where Epstein’s victims could speak about how he preyed on them, and asks for the disclosure of important government documents in the case. Her lawyers, Cassell and Bradley Edwards, are also seeking attorneys’ fees.