Pastor Tunde Bakare, founder of the Latter Rain Assembly was the running mate to President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2011 Presidential Election under the platform of the defunct Congress for Progressives Change (CPC). He spoke with newsmen in Lagos on some developments in the polity. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: What is your view on zoning political offices in the country? Zoning is clearly spelt out in our constitution. We have the Federal Character and things like that, which recognises our diversities. Anything that will help our nation to be united is a welcome idea. No one nation is exactly like the other. All I am saying is that at no time must any group say this or that ethnic personalities cannot be there, as far as the presidency is concerned. That would not augur well for us. If we want to attract the best and fittest, every able citizen who seeks or desires to contribute his or her quota to our national development should be encouraged to do so. Nobody owns the presidency. You once advocated that we should stop and have a rethink, to enable us find solution to our problem. Do you still stand by that? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network With what we go through every day, to stop and have a rethink does not mean that everything has to be grinded to a halt. We should look at the problem, the diagnosis and also look at the solution. After that we begin to implement them strategically, in such a way that will not disrupt anything. We can progressively move from where we are, to where we are going; whether government takes advantage of what we are pushing or not? Let us assume they will. I cannot compel the President, because I don’t have the power. But, this is my own contribution. Honestly, no speech has been given out to anybody and the Presidency will not have a copy of the speech of what we pushing. But we have it on the pinnacle and he knows all the issues and, whatever he finds them useful, at the appropriate time he will use it, if he so desired. I think so, because he is listening and responsive. Not that I am locked up in a particular mind set. When you make it plainly, it is easy for us to see one or two signs working in our direction. He is a man who meant well and wants to have his legacy in place. The people who are close to him can see the obvious. What has President Buhari done that is so outstanding that makes you believe in him? A tree does not make a forest. President Buhari is one citizen. There is one thing I like about him — and I will tell you the truth. He was classmate to General Shehu Yar’Adua, whose father was a minister while they were in secondary school. And many children of great people were in that same school. At some point, the school will discover and give scholarship once in a while to some outstanding and brilliant students and take them abroad. Because of Buhari’s excellent performance and character among children of the affluence, he was selected to go to the UK for his military training. He said from that moment he felt great that regardless of your background or past, what you merited in soldier would be given to you. That is one of the driving forces of his life; I know it and I am saying it now. The reason he his tackling corruption is the same reason he is ensuring security. It is to ensure opportunities for our land to be developed. Now, it is not right if you spend eight years and there is nothing tangible recorded against your name. In this circumstance, he is trying to keep a legacy that cannot be erased. And remember that he was ill, for a considerable part of his first term. Thank God he overcame it. Why are you so optimistic that things will work in this country? I want to see a nation that works in my lifetime and I am passionate about it and those around me also believe in it. We believe in it and we will promote it. Israel was in Egypt for 400 years and after some years, they came out of it. If we all do not believe in this country, where do we all run to or who do you want to run, to fix it. Nobody will fix this country; we have to stand together to fix it. I am an incurable optimist about Nigeria. Nigeria will become great in our lifetime. We composed the anthem we sang this morning by the ‘Save Nigeria’ group to reflect on the moment. If you believe and I believe and we all work for it, Almighty God will grant us victory and Nigeria will become great. That is why we are giving it all it takes and we will eventually position people to make it work. Do you believe in restructuring of the country? Do you think President Buhari is not interested in restructuring? I disagree with you, because he had often times spoken about how to rearrange the police force and how to have people right places. And then his party set up a committee headed by Nasir el Rufai to look at this issue and bring solution to the table. Those things are with him already. Nigeria is dislocated, but you don’t amputate a leg because of a dislocation. You find those who can fix the dislocation, so that the man can walk again. That is what to do. I don’t think he is against it. If he is, I wonder what legacy he will have. You ran on the same ticket with him in 2011. Can you say he is implementing those things you wanted to carry out together? We had a manifesto, the CPC manifesto and the number one thing on the agenda was restructuring Nigeria. The APC manifesto also has restructuring in their manifesto. You could determine that I will have to do this or that but along the line things may not go the same way. Such is life. Look at the first four year; look at the conflict between the executive and legislature; look at how the budget was delayed. You suddenly discovered that you are no longer a military dictatorship. Then you have to balance interest and those things that count for some of you. By the grace of God and I am not trying to show off, I am one of the few who have access to the presidency and I will never abuse that privilege. He meant well for Nigeria; he wants to live a legacy and he is doing it within available means or resources. In every human society, you must leave room for human frailties. Along the line, you discover that this is not right or correct. Some things have been corrected and many more will still be done. We are trusting that he will be surrounded by capable hands. There will not be mutual suspicions and mixed up among those who are closer to him. So that he can focus and get things done, I will give an example of what happened to me and will use that to illustrate some of the things I meant to say. I came back from one of my official trips and my family pastor came to me. He was one of my good friends. We knew each other at secondary school, when we were doing our A’ Levels. He came to my house on a Sunday morning and told me that he threw coconut at his wife and I was angry. Though I did not mention name, I said anybody who can throw coconut at his wife must be mad, because the two of them have become one. But today I understand he gave me wrong information, because he did not throw coconut at my wife. I brought the coconut here to show my family pastor that my wife wanted to throw coconut at me. I was so sad and of course I apologized to him. From that time we set up ground rules principle or rules. If in doubt, ask. Before you ask, give the other person the benefit of the doubt.