Plural Media, a digital-out-of-home advertising company, has launched a partnership with MARKETING EDGE ,  a leading marketing and advertising focused print and online magazine in the country with a view to delivering top industry news on her digital billboards network pan-Nigeria. The collaboration, which is considered to be groundbreaking in the industry, the companies said would provide fresh relevant content and news on-the-go along with commercial adverts on the Plural Media digital billboard network to keep the audience engaged. Speaking on the partnership, Uduak Bassey, Managing Director, Plural Media said: “We have been a proud partner of MARKETING EDGE in many spheres and, therefore, find it worthy to come together again using our leading-edge LED Screens  powered by Robust Content Management Software to achieve this feat. This development ties into our mantra about continuous improvement to make DOOH hard to ignore in the media mix. “The development in the OOH industry  in Nigeria vis-à-vis other channels of communications is amongst the most impressive we have experienced in the last few years and we are very excited to be teaming up with an industry renowned  brand  like MARKETING EDGE that has proven its mettle and remained relevant  in its own space to start this landmark initiative.” According to Bassey, the feat was made possible using the most advanced and reliable LED hardware and intelligent content management system that the company had invested in over the years to power its billboards’ infrastructure from the clouds in real-time. The marketing communications industry news would appear on a 10sec. per news feature rotation within each cycle updated in real-time from the clouds. “As one of the leading innovative digital billboard providers in the country with high quality screen resolution, we strategically offer our clients additional features to make their campaign command attention through our media platforms. “On top of this, Plural Media provides advertisers with all the benefits of digital, including minimal lead times, immediacy of posting, day-part messaging and mobile/social media convergence,” Bassey added. Speaking in a similar vein, Mr. John Ajayi, Publisher of MARKETING EDGE, emphasised that the new partnership with Plural Media, was another radical way of pro-actively repositioning the marketing publication for market leadership and pre-eminence.