Comrade Ezekiel Daniel, former Spokesperson of the Ijaw Peoples Development Initiative (IPDI), was recently appointed the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Security. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, Daniel speaks on the challenges of his office and the need for peace and security in Delta State. Excerpts: How do you feel on your recent appointment as the SSA on Security by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State? I give  thanks to Almighty  God  for His grace over my life and also to my boss and amiable governor of our state, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, for finding  me worthy among millions of  hard working youths to serve Deltans.  I feel honoured, humbled and privileged. In fact, I was shocked the day I received a call from Asaba that I had been given the appointment. What do you think made the Governor to consider you for the position? Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Without being immodest, any follower of Niger Delta issues over the years as they relate to demanding for good governance in the region and Nigeria in general will know about my antecedents, which is in the public domain.  What I believe made His Excellency to consider me for appointment are the hunger for good governance, sincerity, hard work and grassroots contact, especially among the youths who constitute larger percent of the society. Would you say that with this appointment, the feeling of marginalisation among the Ijaws has been assuaged? A government where we have  Deputy Governor from Ijaw ethnic group playing critical role,  not forgetting  commissioners, SSA, SA and Boards members all going to Ijaws, in all honesty , I do not think the cry of marginalisation has a place here, though  the agitation for more government presence in every ramifications is the right of Ijaws. What have you been doing since your appointment to check insecurity in Delta State? In the last one month that l came into office, a lot has been done in terms of proactive steps, which is the key in combating insecurity.I have taken tours to various communities, Opuama, Polobubou and Sunny Jero Zion in the riverine parts, Owian town in Udu and Asaba where I met journalists from various media organisations to hear from them their grievances and expectations from government.  After listening to them, I made it known why they have to do everything to make peace their watch word because all that they listed in terms of good governance, projects and empowerment can only be done by Governor Okowa when peace reigns supreme.   In the course of these working tours, I held series of meetings with security agents to build synergy with them for a safe, peaceful and better society. You spoke about the tours. What were your messages during these tours? Yes, I have toured several communities and held town hall meetings in Opuama, Polobobou, Sunny Zion communities, during which I assured them of Governor Okowa’s commitment to sustainable peace and development in the state. I used the opportunity to express appreciation to the Ijaw communities over their support for Governor Okowa’s re-election. I urged them to work in synergy with the Governor as he is committed to the development,  peace and security of lives and property in the state. I thanked them for the privilege given to me to sit with them to discuss the governor’s good plans for security, sustainable peace and development in riverside communities. We have all strived hard for what the area has become today. So, during the meetings, I appreciated their show of love and contributions. It was also an opportunity to familiarise with my people, but this time in another capacity.  I also made them to realise that as the most neglected and marginalised people in Warri North, we need developments and more appointments both in federal and at the state levels but we need peace to achieve all of these. I also interacted with the leaders of the community over the excessive flooding, and listened to their demands for sand-filling of the area, provision of drinkable water and lack of communication network facilities. The people also complained of absence of anti-natal care for pregnant women, lack of hospital facilities, lack of skills acquisition programmes for the youths, even as they demanded that the elders of oil bearing communities should be paid on monthly basis. I took time off to speak to the youths of the area to shun cultism, sea piracy and drug abuse. I charged them to be serious with their education, describing education as the bed rock of modern society. Cultism is a serious challenge as it destroys the youth and breeds insecurity. I advised them to embrace education which will not only enable them to seek white collar jobs, but will also help them to become complete human beings, self-employed and become renowned. You were one of the keynote speakers during the recent International Day of Peace held by the Centre for Peace and Environmental Justice (CAPEJ) in Warri. What was your message on that occasion? The ‘International Day Of Peace’ organised by the Centre for Peace and Environmental Justice (CAPEJ) of Comrade Sheriff Mulade, the Convener, a frontline environmental activist in Niger Delta. It had the theme ‘Climate Action for Peace’ and was held in Warri. Apart from being a keynote speaker, I also represented Governor OKowa at the event. As I have continued to do on several occasions, I also harped on peace as the foundation upon which everything in a society depended on. I also stressed the essence of good governance which every Nigerian has been clamouring for, building of infrastructures like hospitals, roads and schools, provision of job opportunities and other indices of enabling environment could not be possible without peace. All these are necessary for peace and security to exist in an environment. I also spoke on the SMART Agenda of Governor Okowa, which we need peace to be able to execute. In the last four years, His Excellency has devoted time and energy in working out peaceful mechanism in resolving issues be it among various ethnic groups in the state or between multi-national companies and their host communities, reason atmosphere of tranquility pervaded the state, which he is ready to build on in his second term. I have to stress, as I did at that event that on cultism and other social vices raising their ugly heads, especially among the youths in the state that the government is working on empowerment skills, advocacy, awareness and reorientation campaign for our teeming youths to redirect their energy into positive line. I took the message of Governor Okowa especially his call on all citizens of the state to walk towards peace, stressing his administration’s little way of ensuring the development of the state. How would you describe Gov Okowa’s second term programmes for the people of Delta? His second coming shall be a consolidation on the first term which was a success to all.  His government’s SMART Agenda shall focus once again on road construction and rehabilitation like the one he is doing on Sapele –Warri road, which belongs to Federal Government.  He will also focus on youth and women empowerment.  In short, everything that constitute good governance is what Deltans should expect in this second term of the governor. To what extent has the Federal Government been able to implement the 16-Point Agenda the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) presented to the President Muhammadu Buhari administration since its first term? It is so unfortunate that Federal Government has become a Messi (Lionel), dribbling our people around.  Is the Federal Government saying that they only listen and act when violence arises?  As I am talking to you, none of the 16-Point Agenda raised by PANDEF has been addressed by the Federal Government.  Take a look at the relocation of the headquarters of multi-national oil companies, which is a key demand of PANDEF. Up to this point, none of them has relocated despite the atmosphere of peace now everywhere in the state.  We all know the kind of taxes and job opportunities these companies pay and give to Lagos State. The implementation of this demand would go a long way to put food on the tables of our teeming youths should the oil companies operate here.  The taxes they would have been paying would have helped a lot to assist the Delta State government to do more in terms of providing infrastructure for our people. I want to urge Mr. President to do the needful by given a marching order for these companies to relocate to their operational bases in the Niger Delta.