The majority of sensible Manchester United fans were under no illusion about the Reds’ prospects going into this season. A first Premier League title in seven years was never going to be on the cards, with a top-four finish the height of most fans’ expectations. What has come as a surprise, though, is just how much of a mess United find themselves in eight games into the top-flight season. The 4-0 scoreline United beat Chelsea by at the beginning of August flattered the hosts, but there was still enough in that performance to suggest brighter times were ahead for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network United have won just once in the league since then, at home to Leicester, and they have lost to Crystal Palace, West Ham and Newcastle, and drawn with Wolves, Southampton and Arsenal across their other six games. Injuries to key players have compounded Solskjaer’s problems and he was without eight senior players for Sunday’s game at St. James Park, with more than half of United’s bench on Tyneside comprised of academy teenagers. United took a risk in allowing seven senior players to leave earlier this year and only bringing three in and it is a risk that has backfired thus far. However, despite United’s vast struggles at the beginning of the campaign, most of the players Solskjaer has let go would not be welcomed back in a hurry. The issue now, though, is that the squad has a threadbare look to it whenever a few players are out injured. Solskjaer has good intentions with the club’s academy players, and his faith in Mason Greenwood and Co. clearly factored into his thinking in the transfer window, but, as Gary Neville has noted in recent weeks, the environment United’s youngsters have been thrown into is far from ideal. There is not enough senior players of quality in Solskjaer’s squad to take the pressure off the likes of Greenwood, Gomes and Chong, and that is one of the reasons why heavy investment is still badly required. READ ALSO: What Solskjaer Said About Man Utd’s Goalscoring Problem
Across the City, at City, Pep Guardiola ideally likes to have two quality, specialist players in each position. That way, if one of them gets injured, another can slot straight in and perform the same role. During the last two seasons, that system worked a charm. Vincent Kompany’s departure and City’s subsequent failure to replace him has thrown things a little out of whack at the beginning of this campaign but it is difficult to imagine it will stay that way for long and a January addition at the back is likely. Pep Guardiola likes to have two specialist players for every position
Solskjaer, on the other hand, is arguably seven players short of being able to say he has two quality players in each position, with the midfield his most pressing concern. In a poll run by MEN Sport earlier this week, just one per cent of United fans said strengthening at the back should be prioritised over bolstering in midfield and attack in January. It does not take a genius to work out that United’s defence is the least of Solskjaer’s worries. In the centre of the park, though, it is a different matter entirely. Nemanja Matic, Andreas Pereira and Fred should not be making the bench on current form but United’s paucity of midfield options means that at least two of the three have started in all but one of United’s last seven matches. United have not had a genuine right winger of quality since Nani and Antonio Valencia were battling it out for a spot in the team under Sir Alex Ferguson. There is, of course, the possibility of some of the academy players establishing themselves in the first team over the coming months, meaning United might not end up having to spend big on all of the seven players they need. Full-back Brandon Williams was United’s stand-out player at AZ Alkmaar while James Garner has shone for Neil Wood’s Under-23s at the beginning of the campaign. Both are due more minutes at senior level. Strengthening in midfield should be Solskjaer’s January priority. He won’t get all the players he wants but this rebuild was always going to take more than a couple of windows.