LAGOS – The Chairman/CEO, Adeirorun Enterprises Nigeria Limited, Alhaji Ganiu Adelani,  has traced the high level of youth unemployment in the country to the poor state of energy supply, which he said has been stalling industrial growth and other small and medium enterprises (SMEs) that would have provided massive employment in the country. Adelani, who was giving his assessment of Nigeria’s at 59, in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT at the weekend, lamented the nation’s power challenges leading to inefficient generation and distribution of electricity. This, he stressed, had over the years, remained a sore point and major threat to the nation’s economic growth, bringing the manufacturing sector in particular to a comatose. The industrialist, whose group had been in the vanguard of creating employment opportunities for youths, lamented that epileptic power supply which had been the bane of Nigerian’s economy for decades, had led to the near collapse of the manufacturing sector, and the closure of many small and medium enterprises (SME), throwing millions of employable youths out of jobs. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He declared: “As Nigeria docks 59, I will advise the Federal Government to take the issue of energy more seriously as failure in that sector has been drawing us back as a nation.” The businessman emphasised that the future of Nigeria is bright if the federal government can tackle the issue of energy headlong and resuscitate many dead or dying businesses across many sectors. According to him, closure of vibrant businesses had also led to brain drain, forcing energetic and brilliant Nigerians who could contribute meaningfully to the development of the country to migrate out of the country in droves to face humiliation and deprivations in foreign lands. In view of the hardship Nigerians in Diasporas had been contending with, Adelani urged the Federal Government to salvage the situation by ensuring that conducive and enabling business environment were created at home for Nigerians to thrive and attain their potentials, while contributing their quota to develop their father land. He, however, advised Nigerian youths at home to be more upright by shunning violence and all forms of vices in their dealings, ensuring that they live decently and be law abiding. Speaking on the closure of Nigerian border along the west coast, Adelani, though appreciated the motive of government over this decision, suggested that the policy should be reviewed in view of the adverse effects it had already been having on small businesses, both in Nigeria and the affected neighbouring African countries.