The fantasy drama got tongues wagging for all the wrong reasons after its last string of episodes left many fans – let’s just say underwhelmed. However, some eagle-eyed Reddit users have flagged what they deem to be a bit of a blunder in one of the most important scenes of the series. Game Of Thrones season 8 finale Fans will remember how Jon Snow (Kit Harington) made the heart-breaking decision to murder his love Daenerys (Emilia Clarke) after deeming her unfit to rule. He came to the conclusion after the brutal burning of King’s Landing, which saw soldiers and civilians alike torched indiscriminately. During their final embrace, Jon plunged a dagger into his love, prompting her only remaining dragon Drogon to melt the Iron Throne and fly off into the distance with her corpse in his claws. READ ALSO: Felicity Jones Talks On Chalet Girl In the fallout from the betrayal, Jon was arrested – however this is when some viewers noticed some major flaws in the plot. They said there were some problems with his arrest as there wasn’t enough evidence. With no body and no confession scene, some claimed that Jon’s trial was ‘glossed over’. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network ‘If the dragon flew away with Daenerys’ body, how did they know that Jon stabbed her?’ one Reddit user complained. The comment received hundreds of messages as other fans chipped in with their thoughts on the subject. One user replied: ‘Good point, for all they knew she just snapped after the King’s Landing siege and flew off.’ ‘If there was only a patch of blood on the floor that’s not a lot to go on,’ another added. However, a few hit back with their own theories as to what happened after the murder. Mostly they cited Jon’s nobility as sufficient grounds to assume he came clean and handed himself in. ‘I’m assuming they heard Drogon’s cry, and when they got there they saw a pool of blood on the ground and tears in Jon’s eyes with no Dany,’ one commented. ‘And if they asked Jon, did you or the dragon do it, what answer do you think someone like Jon would give? At least that’s my take on it.’ A second user theorised that since Jon had no regrets about his decision, he wouldn’t have felt the need to issue a denial. They said: ‘If Jon got anything from being raised by Ned Stark, it was his sense of honour; when he killed Daenerys, he had decided that killing her was the right thing to do, and he was willing to accept the consequences for his actions,.’ ‘Would you expect Ned to have tried to weasel out of the consequences if he had been the one with the dagger?’