LOKOJA – The Kogi State governorship election is around the corner, November 16, 2019, to be precise, and from all indications, everything seems to be going wrong for the one-time ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. The PDP which had ruled the state from 2003 to 2015 was still very strong despite the setback of losing to the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2015 governorship election. However, events that culminated into the recent primary election of the party seemed strong enough to destabilise the very foundation of the party. Ironically, when all eyes were on the PDP to rescue the state from the claws of the APC, primordial and personal sentiments loomed big for the survival and a force against the party to making strong appearance in the forthcoming governorship election. The party, which could have used the support of the citizenry to garner strength, has to bungle the confidence of the people with its unsatisfactory appetite of every member to be governor of the state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Former governors Alhaji Ibrahim Idris and Captain Idris Wada and Senator Dino Melaye, who are supposed to provide direction for the members, also joined the fray of contestants leaving the very essence of the party as an orphan. The centre could not hold and anarchy is looming on the party. Unfortunately though, the party had zoned its governorship slot to the Igala dominated Kogi East with nearly half of the population of the entire state. The party believed that with her superior population, its ticket to the zone will guarantee a smooth win despite the power of incumbency of the APC. And with her large population in mind, when, bell was rang, the people were entangled in hallucinations as every family jumped into the offer believing that the Lugard House is up for grab. In an attempt to discourage multitude aspirants, the National Headquarters of the party pegged the Nomination and Intent Forms at N24 million, an amount considered too huge to be wasted on uncertainty and vagaries of delegates election. The people were not deterred. They were determined to win and no amount placed on the ticket would be too much for them. On the last count, eleven sons and daughters of the Igala Kingdom and one apiece from the West and Central Districts had bought the coveted forms  contributing over N264 million to the coffers of the  party  . Among those that procured the form included the two past governors, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris who came in through his son Alhaji Abubakar Idris, Captain Idris Wada and Engineer Musa Wada, a junior sibling to Captain Wada and a direct in- law to Ibrahim Idris, which has created a logjam of interests that is capable of dismembering the party. Analysts are of the opinion that Ibrahim Idris, a man considered to be the heart and soul of the party in the state would have remained neutral to support the most acceptable aspirant. They opined that with his entry through his son, he will not be able to play the needed leadership that will galvanize the party to win the forthcoming governorship election. They added that at a crucial moment of the party, fragmenting leadership would deal a devastating blow to the cohesion of the PDP in Kogi State. Unfortunately, when the mischief was unfolding in the state, the party national leadership kept mute, interested more on the amount to be generated from the sales of forms rather than winning the election. The people thought that, those neophyte aspirants would be pruned down to a manageable proportion to work for an aspirant that is widely acceptable across the state. Alas, nobody is interested in the outcome of the delegates’ election on the cohesion of the party. And the election came and the belligerent ones stood their ground that if it is not them then there should be no candidate for the party in the general election. The most vocal aspirants that lost the primary election to the eventual winner, Engineer Musa Wada, were Abubakar Ibrahim Idris and Senator Dino Melaye who have been crying fouls of the process of the September 3 primary election. They have been going from pillar to post to invalidate the result of the primary. The camp of Abubakar Idris who came second believes that the gunmen that attacked the venue of the primary election – Confluence Stadium Lokoja – was masterminded to rob them of their victory. They have since remained adamant not giving opportunity for reconciliation. Abubakar Idris has approached the court to invalidate and turn the result in his favour even as members of his campaign team have dumped the party for the opposition APC. However attempt by the PDP’s reconciliation Committee to reconcile him with the winner, Engineer Musa Wada, on several occasions have failed to yield positive results as the recent endorsement of Engr. Musa Wada / Sam Aro governorship ticket by the stakeholders from the West Senatorial Zone and their subsequent adoption of the communiqué of the meeting held inside the conference hall of Suitorial  Hotel, Lokoja were rebuffed by the members of Abubakar Idris ‘s camp. And with their camp not yielding to the party’s plea for support, even as other contestants may have quietly left the scene and went back to their businesses, never to have anything to do with their standard bearer, while the likes of Captain Idris Wada, the senior brother to Musa, may have lent him their support, is yet to translate into fortune as he is not known to have the budget to achieve that. Paradoxically, while the PDP is battling with crisis of confidence, the ruling party APC has opened its doors very wide and the aggrieved are falling into it in droves. This may significantly affect the PDP chances on November 16, 2019 governorship election if drastic measures are not taken to resolve the imbroglio. With the APC in possession of surplus funds  and unhindered access to the legitimate instrument of coercion that are already whipping the citizenry to submissions through daily mass defection from the PDP to her fold, one may not need a fortune-teller to hazard a guess. Another strong point working for the APC is the history of voters’ behaviour of the people from the Central Senatorial zone whose son, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, is contesting against Engr. Wada from another ethnic tribe. The Central electorate had consistently voted massively for their sons in previous elections which they will likely reenact on November 16, while the disunity among the political class from the East may split their votes to the advantage of the APC. Director General of the Yahaya Bello campaign organisation, Senator Smart Adeyemi has also said that it is too late in the day for former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to resolve the festering crisis in the Kogi State chapter of the PDP. Worried by the festering development over the outcome of the September 3 governorship primaries, Atiku had been meeting with interested parties in the Kogi PDP crisis, with the view to uniting the party for victory at the poll. But speaking with reporters in Abuja last week, Senator Adeyemi called on Atiku not to waste his time trying to resolve the crisis, saying that the situation in the Kogi PDP has gone beyond redemption. Adeyemi said: “My advice to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is that he should not waste his time and money. It is too late. I wish he did those six months ago. “The crises rocking the Kogi PDP are fundamental. They are without planning, they are without focus and people have made up their minds in Kogi State. “How can you present the son in-law of a former governor who is also the younger brother of another former governor? Even if you are picking someone from the same zone, are there not other very competent persons from the zone?” Adeyemi said the PDP was already dying in Kogi as a result of attempts by just interrelated families to dominate political power in the state, stressing that a former governor, his son and his in-laws were seeking to convert the state to their private fiefdom. The campaign DG dismissed the widely held belief that the incumbent governor might lose the election to poor performance, saying that Governor Bello had performed better than his predecessors who were elected on the platform of the PDP. Adeyemi said he accepted to lead the governor’s re-election campaign on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on the conviction that the governor had recorded concrete achievements in terms of project execution and security in the state.