LAGOS – The traffic gridlock on Lagos roads has become worrisome and on the average, it is assumed that Lagosians spend close to two hours on traffic on a daily basis, thereby losing the time for productive ventures. The reason some people have been quick to give is that the population of the state is growing at a geometric rate, while the corresponding infrastructural development has either remained stagnant or grown at arithmetic rate. Others are of the view that the government of day has not given priority to the issue of road rehabilitation and construction, even as some believe that former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode should have been given a second term to complete some of the road projects he started, which have now seemingly been abandoned. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT  went to the streets of Lagos to seek motorists and other road users’ views on the state of Lagos roads and what they think about the government of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu who took over the realms of power four months ago. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Comrade Joseph Chukwuwatalu, an activist, said Lagos roads have remained a big burden to residents of the state. He stated that close to three hours was always wasted on the average by a driver on Lagos road to achieve a trip. He said that if he had an engagement, he would go three hours ahead of time on a journey that would have taken not more than 30 minutes because of bad road and potholes. He wondered why government would wait until the roads were completely dilapidated before it would start rehabilitation. He said that Lagos makes so much in terms of revenue and should be able to take care of its roads. Chukwuwatalu said the nightmare that Lagosians face on the road could also affect lives of residents. He said that the life expectancy of an average Lagosian is lower than the nation’s 54 years average. He called on Governor Sanwo-Olu to, as a matter of urgency, start something immediately to save the state from colossal waste economic resources. He stressed that a situation where businesses had closed down as a result of bad road was not good enough. Mutiu Adelaja, a commercial bus driver, said the condition of the roads have made things difficult for them. He said that they were not able to deliver their daily deliverables as a result of the bad roads. He said that sometimes they would spend more than four hours to get to Apapa from Oshodi. “I want government to help us fix the roads and also take the trucks off the roads. Sometimes, government would tell us that it would remove the trucks, but it has not kept its promises. We need government to help us. “If it is not only congestion by the trucks, the potholes are another challenge. We are not enjoying doing business in Lagos at all. Sanwo-Olu should please help us to repair these roads and do something about the trucks that are taking over the little space left by potholes.” Solomon Peter, a commercial tricycle operator, cried out as well. He expressed worry that the roads are so bad, especially during the rainy season, more so with restrictions placed on some roads, he said it would be hard to make ends meet in the state. “We no longer enjoy this business with the state of Lagos roads. I will tell that almost all the roads that we ply are in bad state. I don’t know what to say but to tell you that we are suffering doing business in this state. It is worse for us the tricycle operators because we are restricted from using certain roads, so when there is gridlock we would remain there and we are still expected to make our weekly payments. “You know that most of these tricycles that you see are on hire purchase, we are expected to remit money every week and you must meet up. We need the government to repair the roads. Another issue is that they don’t give contracts to good contractors because barely six months after a road is repaired, there would be potholes again. “The contractors don’t use quality materials to do the roads. Government should use good and reliable contractors who should be monitored. They should not wait till the roads have dilapidated completely before they would start work. They should engage the public works to be on the roads regularly patching and fixing bad spots and by so doing they would also reduce accidents on the roads.” Lateef Olowora, an engineer, said that All Progressives Congress (APC) has been in power in Lagos State since 1999 and he could not see any good road done by Lagos State aside the road from charity on Oshodi/Apapa road to the international airport. “Every road in Lagos State is out of place. What the government of Lagos State is trying to do is not what the tax payers should do. Lagos State government is wasting tax payers’ money. What it does is cosmetic surfacing and not road construction. If it is only one road it can do let it do and ensure it has done something good. “If it takes N10 million to do one kilometer road, and it does 10 kilometer road with N100 million and it lasts for 16 years it would be better than spending N10 million and you keep repairing it every year.  The road from Okeafa mass burial to Jakande Gate in Isolo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) has been repaired 15 times in the last eight years. The potholes on the roads have been there and each time you would see them repair it and they come back again to see the potholes. People spend hours on traffic gridlock. This government is not proactive that is the problem. “The present construction work on Agege Motor Road is a very bad job and I can tell you that road would not last five years before it would go bad. You can see the road construction done during former Governor Lateef Jakande, they were quality road construction. You cannot compare those roads with what we have now. “During President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, there were quality roads construction across the country. But, the federal and Lagos state governments must be cautioned by the Council of Registered Engineers of Nigeria (COREN) for the poor quality of road construction that they are doing and these have increased the number of deaths on our roads.” Chime Joseph said that Lagos State government has not done well in the area of road construction, adding that the inner roads have been neglected. “The state government has not done well at all in the area of road constructions and maintenance. The inner roads have been abandoned. If you go to Ejigbo, Ilasa, Ajao Estate, Okota, Isolo, the roads are in dilapidated state. You would be surprised to see that some of the roads were tarred, but now abandoned that you would hardly know they were once tarred roads. “It is difficult for motorcycle or tricycle to ply on these roads. A journey of 20 minutes would take more than three hours to do especially after close of business of during morning hours. Areas like Ijanikin are in sorry state. The state government should understand that you cannot talk of development without accessible roads. It has just been discovered that States that do not generate the kind of Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) like Lagos State have better access roads than the state. “The state government does not pay attention to roads and they also do not maintain these roads except the have totally dilapidated. We expect more from Lagos State. It should do better with tax payers’ money. It should not reduce life expectancy of Lagos people. When people stay on traffic for so many hours every day, it would affect their life spans, which is why Sanwo-Olu should not delay at all, he should get down to work and fix these roads. “Some Lagosians are worried that he could abandon some of these roads initiated by former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. They are of the view that Ambode should have continued for another eight years to complete some of these projects. It is common to see incumbent governors abandon projects of their predecessors, especially if they did not have good relationship like what we saw played between the two men. Lagos roads should be fixed immediately. There is no more time. Lagosians are bleeding for what they have been passing through on the roads. Mrs. Maria Madu said that it had been like hell driving on Lagos road. She said that most times she would prefer going on public transport than driving. “It is a terrible experience to drive on Lagos roads, because sometimes you miss appointments and lose money while you are on traffic. I don’t know if the government is not aware of the state of the roads. Why does government want us to be happy living in the state? When I used to do school run it was a bitter experience and sometimes I pity the children who would be for hours on traffic. I want government to take this issue as a priority. Let it fix the roads, if that happens the traffic gridlock would disappear,” she said. Meanwhile, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has promised to start massive road rehabilitation after the rainy season to take of perennial trafficking gridlock in the state. The governor had, during a programme of Covenant Christian Centre, ‘The Platform’, organised yearly by Pastor Peju Oyemade on October 1, stated that his government would, as a short and medium term measures, start rehabilitation of the roads as soon as the rains stop, clear the over 700 buses stocked at the ports to aid transportation, develop the waterways, and for the long term measure, develop the rail lines as alternative to road transportation. Sanwo-Olu said that the major causes of traffic gridlock have been potholes caused by burden on the roads occasioned by huge population against small landmass. He said it is unfortunate that Lagos State has about 10 percent of the total population of the entire country, while in terms of land space, it has less than one percent. He said that his office had plans to address some of the traffic challenges. He said that the government had acquired some boats to take care of waterways, pointing out that he would also develop the rail system which had started through the blue lines. He promised that the motorcycle operators, popularly called Okada, would not be left behind as programmes would be drawn to regulate its system of operation, promising that no sector would be left behind.