Former vice president of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar has warned that all is not well with the country – The PDP presidential candidate in the last election said judges in Nigeria are persecuted for enforcing human rights – Atiku also described Nigeria as the world’s headquarters for extreme poverty Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has joined several other Nigerians to speak about the state of the nation as Nigeria celebrates its Independence Day. The former vice president during the administration of Olusegun Obasanjo warned that all is not well with the nation. Channels TV reports that Atiku while speaking on the state of the nation said the media can no longer speak freely. He said: “All is not well when judges are persecuted for enforcing the constitutionally guaranteed fundamental human rights of Nigerian citizens. “All is not well when Nigeria is now officially the world headquarters for extreme poverty and out of school children, yet the cost of maintaining those in government continues to grow, while the needs of the governed are not being met.
Tanko Yakasai “And certainly, all is not well when the media cannot freely express itself without the fear that those who wield the big stick would use it on them for saying things as they are.” Atiku also called on Nigerians to do more for the country other than praying and hoping for change. He said: “Now is the time for all lovers of Nigeria to take concrete steps to aid Nigeria’s progress by not just praying and showing understanding, but also to take democratic action to ensure that the ideals of our founding fathers – Unity and Faith, Peace and Progress – are not set aside on the altar of tyranny.” Meanwhile, Legit.ng earlier reported that President Muhammadu Buhari in his Independence Day speech promised that his administration will repatriate N108 billion looted by the late former head of state, General Sani Abacha. The president, in his Independence Day broadcast, said a memorandum of understanding will be signed by Nigeria and the United States for another $300 million about N108 billion of the money looted to be sent back to Nigeria.