Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Business is the most risky venture anyone can embark upon. Most people are afraid to go into business because of the risks involve. A lot of people rush into business without considering the risk involve. Sooner or later you see them rushing out of the business. Some Myopic ones attribute their failures and setbacks to witchcraft and evil forces. This reflection is meant to create awareness on the importance of risk and faith. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The human will is the greatest force that can either pull one down or raise one up. If you have the strong will to succeed, you must surely succeed, but with doubt failure is guaranteed. There is no other way we can make it in this life without taking risk. And we cannot take risk without faith. Faith is therefore, the key that unlocks every closed doors. It is the secret of business breakthrough and the only channel to divine connection, which is prayer. Our Lord Jesus Christ succeeded because right from birth He was exposed to all kinds of risks. His birth in a manger is a risk. Other women would have been discouraged in such an ugly and unfavourable condition. The journey to Egypt at a very tender age without a descent means of transportation is very big risk. Think of the cold, the distance and even the poor accommodation in a foreign land. Yet, none of these discouraged the parents of Jesus. Do you even know that His missing for three days was a very big risk? He would have died of hunger. And if was in place like Nigeria, they would have kidnapped him. As Jesus was growing up he was exposed to more risks. The first miracle he performed was not a small risk. Incidentally, this risk was even initiated by his courageous mother. He was not even prepared to take such risk publicly. In a situation like that one may be tempted to consider the crowd, the fear of failure and of course, people’s reaction if he had failed. Mary overlooked all those, she launched her son into his first public risk. At first Jesus complained, saying, “…My hour has not yet come.” The Mother ignored him she rather told the servants, “Whatever He says to you, do it.” (John 2:4-5). With that Mary broke the yoke of fear and doubt in the life of her Son. How many mothers can do this? Every parent has a great role to play in building the faith of their children. You can either train your dog to act like a lion or to act like a pet or a coward. As you make your bed so you lay on it! During his public ministry Jesus took so many risks. Although He did not succeed in all the risks he took. He was not even discouraged by his people’s lack of faith. His success in most of the risks he took made him who he is today. Remember, without faith, no one can embark on any risk venture! In the gospel of Luke chapter 5,  when the professional fishermen told Jesus that they laboured all through the night and they caught nothing. Jesus had to expose them to a fresh risk. It was an unusual time for fishing, yet Jesus told them to release their net for a catch. Peter said to him, “Master, we have toiled all night and caught nothing; nevertheless at Your word I will let down the net. Meaning, I’ll take the risk! As they risked it, they caught a great number of fish, and their net was breaking. So they signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, “Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord!” Have you ever asked yourself why did Peter address himself as a sinful man? He did not commit adultery, He did not steal, He did not even tell lies. The only crime he committed was his doubt and his lack of courage to take risk when he thought all hope was gone. For children of God there is nothing like a hopeless situation. If you are destined for success, the same time when others are recording failure, you will find yourself recording success. One man’s failure is another man’s success. All the great men and women who succeeded in this world were those who took risk at one point in their lives. A good number of them have something inspiring to say concerning faith and risk taking. Ed Catmull, co-founder of Pixar Animation Studios, president of Pixar Animation and Disney Animation once declares, “It is not the manager’s job to prevent risks. It is the manager’s job to make it safe to take them.” That was exactly the role the Mary played in the life of Jesus. She did not prevent her son from taking risks, she even encouraged him to take as many risks as possible, even in the public. Jesus used the same spirit to form his disciples. He exposed them to all kinds of risks.  Even to the point of asking Peter to walk with him on top of water. The fear of failure is a major reason why people are afraid of taking risk. Dave Hitz, the founder & EVP of NetApp declares, “A lot of times people look at risk and ask, ‘What are the odds that I will succeed?’ A different way to look at risk is to ask, ‘What’s the worst thing that would happen if I failed?’” Nobody will kill you if you fail. Nobody will even sue you because of your failure. Forget what people are thinking about your failure. Your failure today may be your stepping stone to your success tomorrow. There is no harm in trying! Jeff Bezos, the founder and CEO of Amazon has this to say, “I knew that if I failed I wouldn’t regret that, but I knew the one thing I might regret is not trying.” The failure and the inability to try has robbed so many people their life opportunities. Never have you concluded until you have tried. It is better to try and fail than to fail to try. That is why Mark Zuckerberg, the chairman, CEO, and co-founder of Facebook declares “The biggest risk is not taking any risk.” It is not just the biggest risk it is the most foolish thing anyone can do. Take risks and damn the consequences!   However, remember no one takes risk without Faith. Faith is the only force that propels risk. Faith, according to the book of Hebrew 11:1 is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For the Holy Father, Pope Francis, Faith is not just a set of rules, it is a divine relationship: a relation of love and trust. According to him, “If we let ourselves be engaged in this relationship of love and trust with Jesus, we will be capable of doing good works that have the perfume of the Gospel for the good and the necessities of our brothers and sisters.” Child of God, with faith your relationship with God is restored. From today, you will start enjoying divine relationship! The Prophet Habakkuk 2:4 declares,“…the just shall live by his faith.” Commenting on this passage, St. Paul declares, “For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith,  as it is written, “The righteous shall live by faith.”  Child of God, with faith, you will not die. You will surely live! In today’s gospel reading from Luke 17:5-10 our Lord Jesus told his followers, “If you have faith as a mustard seed, you can say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be pulled up by the roots and be planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you.” Child of God, with faith, the impossible shall become possible for you! Your prayers will be answered. You will record success in your business. God will grant your heart desire. He will richly bless you and it shall be well with you, in Jesus name – Amen!