ABUJA – The Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) has said this year’s Summit has been designed to set a new agenda for Nigeria’s Fourth Industrial Revolution and mark a critical strategic shift to a competitive private sector economy by 2050 through a renewed focus on economic growth, competitiveness and inclusive development. NESG’s Head of Communications, Mr. Olayinka Iyinolakan, who made the disclosure yesterday ,explained that the discussions for this year’s 25th Summit which is slated for October 7-8, 2019 at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, would be anchored on four sub-themes namely achieving rapid industrialisation, transforming education, managing demography and sustainable peace and security. It would be recalled that Mr. Asue Ighodalo, Chairman of NESG, while speaking in Abuja at a media briefing recently, posited that only a competitive private sector led economy would achieve a rising standard of living and economic prosperity for more than 400 million Nigerians in 2050. Ighodalo warned that the current United Nations projections of Nigeria’s demographic explosion which could lead to worsening economic and human development indicators portend great implications for the country. To this end, he underscored the need for critical industry stakeholders and policy makers to convene and chart a realistic way forward to achieve the desired goals of economic growth, competitiveness and inclusive development that would adequately respond to the changing dynamics in the society between now and 2050. As a result, he revealed that the focus of this year’s NES#25 would be “to set a new agenda for Nigeria as we usher in the Fourth Industrial Revolution and mark a critical strategic shift towards a regionally and globally competitive private sector economy by 2050.” Going down the memory lane, Ighodalo, noted that the first Nigerian Economic Summit in 1993, that brought together both public and private sector leaders was committed to six core principles that would define the underlying economic philosophy that served as the premise for a globally competitive 21st Century Nigerian economy. These principles, according to him include, “Commitment to a free market economy; encouragement of private sector investments; creation of an enabling environment; good governance in the national interest; a rule-based economy and establishment of economic foundation for democracy. “They have continued to guide the engagements at the Nigerian Economic Summit as Nigeria went through fundamental structural and economic reforms of key economic sectors.” The theme of year’s Summit is, “Nigeri-a 2050: Shifting Gear,” with five plenary sessions, six roundtables, six breakfast meetings and six lunch sessions.