LAGOS – Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State deputy governor, has said that agriculture, technology and innovation when deployed appropriately would save Nigeria and its teeming population from unemployment and poverty. Hamzat stated this while delivering a lecture entitled, “Addressing the unemployment scourge in Nigeria: The role of Agriculture and Technology” at the Lagos State University (LASU) Faculty of Social Science Annual Lecture in Ojo Wednesday. He stressed that the important topic is what the Executive Council deliberates on daily. He said that the state was methodical on how polices, regulations and laws affect unemployment in the state. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Hamzat said that Nigeria remains Africa’s largest ICT market with 82 percent of the continent’s telecoms subscribers, 29 percent of Internet usage and that the challenge is now to translate that into resource movement for the teeming population. “We need to think differently on how to create policies for reforms in innovation and technology; current approaches are insufficiently adapted to the characteristics and problems of knowledge-based economies, and the potential contribution of technology to growth and employment remains largely untapped. He added that policy should ensure favourable conditions in which technology and innovation can contribute to job creation by helping to reduce mismatches between demand and supply for skills. “In addition, reducing regulatory, information and financing barriers for entrepreneurs will facilitate the creation and growth of jobs in technology based firms. “Emerging economies such as India have become case studies for technology disruption and innovation. “Nasscom, the apex body of the Indian IT industry, claims that tech startups, e-commerce, Digital India and digital payments have created new opportunities for growth in the country. “What we plan to do is to empower and support innovation and technology so that we can have more companies like CCHub, Andela, LifeBank, Paga, GoKada, among others, that create and support employment for young people. Speaking further he said that since 1999, successive governments in Lagos have focused on innovative programmes to foster job creation and empower entrepreneurs in the state. “Lagos, for example, has the IBILE Micro Finance Bank that makes loans easily accessible for SMEs; the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund also provides loans to SMEs at 5 per cent interest rate spread over four years,” he said. Hamzat further stated that the Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration would build on the successes achieved in these areas and continue to support SMEs to grow the economy of Lagos and create jobs for the rapidly growing population.