Rihanna has become a powerhouse in the fashion and beauty world thanks to her Fenty brands. And in the November issue of Vogue, the beauty from the Bahamas talks about building her empire from scratch which she has said was rewarding. But the crooner was most passionate when talking about Donald Trump, calling him mentally ill. She is clearly no fan of the President, whom she asked to stop using her music. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network When the subject of the mass shootings in El Paso and Dayton come up, Rihanna talks Trump again because he said the shooting happened because of mental illness while not discussing gun control.’It is devastating,’ she said. ‘People are being murdered by war weapons that they legally purchase. This is just not normal. That should never, ever be normal. And the fact that it’s classified as something different because of the color of their skin? It’s a slap in the face. It’s completely racist.’ She goes on: ‘Put an Arab man with that same weapon in that same Walmart and there is no way that Trump would sit there and address it publicly as a mental health problem. The most mentally ill human being in America right now seems to be the president.’ When asked about her feelings on the immigration crisis, she adds: ‘“What do you say? What can you say? It’s gonna get better? I almost feel sick to my stomach. I don’t even believe this is happening in real life. In front of my eyes. In front of the world. It’s not even hidden. This is blatant.’ And living in London has not made her any less worried about what is happening in the US: ‘I don’t feel outside the fray. When I see something happen to any woman, a woman of any minority, kids, black men being murdered in the streets—I can’t remove myself from that.’ But out of darkness come light: ‘I feel like the darkness has actually forced people to find this light within them where they want to do better,” she says. “It’s easy when you think everything is going really well and perfect. When everything is flowers and butterflies and you’re in your own bubble and your own world. But to see it, to know it’s happening—it pushes you to want to be the light in the world.’ At the end of the interview she is asked about her love life. She is dating Saudi businessman Hassan Jameel. ‘Yeah, I’m dating,’ she said. ‘I’m actually in an exclusive relationship for quite some time, and it’s going really well, so I’m happy.’ The singer also talked about her ninth album, which will be full of reggae: ‘I like to look at it as a reggae-inspired or reggae-infused album. It’s not gonna be typical of what you know as reggae. But you’re going to feel the elements in all of the tracks. The star also told the fashion bible that the style of music is what she grew up on. ‘Reggae always feels right to me. It’s in my blood. It doesn’t matter how far or long removed I am from that culture, or my environment that I grew up in; it never leaves. It’s always the same high. Even though I’ve explored other genres of music, it was time to go back to something that I haven’t really homed in on completely for a body of work.’ And she will never stop singing, she told Vogue. ‘Music is, like, speaking in code to the world, where they get it. It’s the weird language that connects me to them. Me the designer, me the woman who creates makeup and lingerie—it all started with music. It was my first pen pal–ship to the world. To cut that off is to cut my communication off. All of these other things flourish on top of that foundation.’ Rihanna hasn’t released a new album since Anti. ‘I have been trying to get back into the studio,’ she says. ‘It’s not like I can lock myself in for an extended amount of time, like I had the luxury of doing before. I know I have some very unhappy fans who don’t understand the inside bits of how it works.’ She also touched on saying no to the Super Bowl because of Colin Kaepernick. ‘I couldn’t dare do that. For what? Who gains from that? Not my people. I just couldn’t be a sellout. I couldn’t be an enabler. There’s things within that organization that I do not agree with at all, and I was not about to go and be of service to them in any way.’ Her fashion line started when Bernard Arnault asked her to create a fashion house from scratch. ‘ ‘I just thought, Really? Is he sure? Like, now?’she remembers. ‘And then you’re left with this opportunity that’s a really big risk for everyone involved. But I’ve never been afraid to take risks. That’s the thing that got me out of my own way. ‘I was like: You’ve never been afraid to do anything or try anything, regardless of the outcome. So I accepted, and we went full steam ahead.’