The Federal Executive Council (FEC), on Wednesday September 11, 2019, agreed to a hike in Value Added Tax (VAT) from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent representing 44 per cent rise. As the proposed increment continues to generate reactions from concerned Nigerians, the body language in government circle is advocacy for an increase in the country’s VAT. APATA OYENIRAN, KOIKI OLUSEGUN and EBONG CHRIS present the positions of stakeholders before the newly constituted economic team and the National Assembly’s legislation on the matter. The decision of the Federal Government to undertake Value Added Tax (VAT) from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent representing 44 per cent rise was not surprising as there had been clamour in government circles on the need for an increase in the country’s VAT. It should be noted that the Federal Governments’ plan to generate more revenues to finance national development led to the creation of ‘Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative’ which in turn birthed the VAT Increment. However, Zainab Ahmed, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, has said that the proposed increase of the Value-Added Tax (VAT) rate by the Federal Government is subject to the review and approval of the National Assembly. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to ngex.com, Value Added Tax (VAT) in Nigeria also known in some countries as Goods and Services Tax (GST) is a consumption tax that was initiated by the Value Added Tax Act of 1993. It is a Federal Tax which is managed by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). A VAT is charged on most services and goods produced in Nigeria and also on goods imported into the country. Businesses add VAT to the sales price of the goods or services they offer in Nigeria. They also pay VAT, just like consumers, on goods and services that they consume. Some VAT paid by businesses can be used to offset VAT collected before remittance to the FIRS. VAT is calculated at a flat rate of 5% of the cost of service and products and is charged on a wide array of goods and services in Nigeria. VAT is a multi-stage tax which is imposed on goods and services as they pass through the various stages in the business chain. From manufacturing, importation, wholesaling and retailing but the burden of the payment is borne by the final consumer because it is included in the selling price. The VAT Act 1993 provides for a recover-ability system whereby VAT, which is paid during production, is recovered by the taxpayer in the form of input VAT and ultimately passed down to the final consumer. Though VAT will increase the revenue base of the country, analysts said it cannot be free from problems and challenges on the masses of the people. According to a school of thought, it is Nigeria taking from its impoverished citizens it has failed to cater for through repeated failures in governance at all levels, policy summersault, contract failures, corruption and insincerity. VAT is calculated at a flat rate of 5% of the cost of service and products and is charged on a wide array of goods and services in Nigeria. Much as it is known that VAT will increase the revenue base of Nigeria, it cannot be free from some problem. VAT In Other Climes According to statistics, Nigeria has one of the lowest VAT which is a variant of sales tax in the world. Asides Eritrea, which also has a five per cent rate, Nigeria is the only other country in Africa with a single-digit VAT of five per cent. Globally the highest sales tax rate is held by Bhutan which has 50 per cent sales tax. In Africa, Madagascar and Morocco hold the highest rate at 20 per cent followed by Cameroon which has a 19.25 per cent sales tax. Niger holds a 19 per cent rate. Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad Ivory Coast, Rwanda, Congo, Mali all have a sales tax rate of 18 per cent. Kenya and Zambia hold 16 per cent while Ethiopia, Gambia, South Africa, Zimbabwe all hold 15 per cent rates. Egypt holds 14 per cent while Ghana and Botswana have a 12 per cent sales tax. Somalia and Angola alongside Djibouti and Comoros all have a 10 per cent sales tax rate. In Denmark, it is 25, Indonesia 10, North Korea 4, Singapore 7, Tanzania 18 and UAE 5 per cent rates. As Nigerians are groaning under harsh economic stagnation, analysts have viewed the VAT rate now as ‘bad timing’ or perhaps ‘ill-timed’ and inconsistent with current economic reality. There are obvious fears that the proposed hike if allowed to scale through will lead to higher inflation, interest rate hike, and more unemployment and generally make people poorer. Everywhere you go in the country, Nigerians irrespective of age, tribe, religion and educational attainment have become beggars feigning different forms of health challenges to win the sympathy of passer-byes. In traffic, events centres, in eateries, within religious gatherings and in offices they abound pleading for food to eat and cater for families. How Hike Will Affects Nigerians As the cost of living has already hit the roofs, it is feared that VAT would disproportionately affect poor people. Analyst appealed to government to put in place economic and social policies to factor in the reality of its effect on the poor. Since the increase of VAT is a blunt instrument to close revenue shortfall between what the government receive and what it spends may turn out to be regressive and counter-intuitive to the goals of reducing poverty and inequality. The most immediate and devastating impact of the VAT increase will be felt in the diets of the poor children, women and households. The impact will be devastating as balanced diets will be sacrificed for poor nutrition. Given that the most discretionary component of the budgets of poor households in the food budget, the increase in VAT may, in all likelihood, lead to the purchasing and consumption of cheap and unhealthy foods. It is commonplace in major markets to see women and men struggle to make purchases of rotten food items, disused clothing materials, and trek long distances due to paucity of funds. The increase will affect the gas purchase, electricity tariffs, cost of fuel and transportation by land and air, movement of goods and services and limits access to places of economic opportunities. This means poor Nigerians owed salary arrears will have to spend more money on public transport, children’s transportation, house rents, clothing and other essential needs. As the proposed increase continues to generate reactions from professional groups, financial analyst and other stakeholders, the Coalition of Business Membership Organisation stated that the proposal was done without the involvement of critical business stakeholders in various registered, accredited and foremost business associations. Acknowledging that VAT regime in Nigeria falls among the lowest in the world, the group said the living standard in many parts of the world is better than what obtains in Nigeria and supports small businesses better. The BMO comprise the Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (NASME); Association of Micro Entrepreneurs of Nigeria (AMEN); National Association of Small Scale Industries (NASSI); Association of Small Business Owners of Nigeria (ASBON). The coalition at a press conference in Lagos appealed to the Federal Government to jettison the proposed increment in Value Added Tax (VAT), arguing that doing so would impact negatively on businesses and generality of Nigerians. Dr Femi Egbesola, ASBON National President, said the decision to increase VAT from five per cent to 7.2 per cent was taken without consultation with critical stakeholders, who would be most impacted by the increase. He stated that increase in VAT would lead to increase in inflation, as big businesses would use it as an excuse to raise the cost of goods and services arbitrarily, which in turn, would lead to a rise in unemployment in the country and poverty. According to him, while an increase in VAT would to lead to a rise in government revenues, it would also lead to a reduction in consumption and slow down the economy thus making it counter-productive. Spokesperson of the group said the proposed rise in VAT would worsen the poverty situation in the country and pose a burden on Nigerians, saying the result would lead to increase in the cost of doing business, closure of many business concerns and the bloated unemployment rate in the country. According to him, a new VAT regime will slow down investment in the country, adding that Nigeria needs investment to drive the economy and create jobs. Advocating for grants and tax holidays to small businesses, he stated that incidences of multiple taxations are hurting small businesses in the country. The business organisations urged the Federal Government to widen the tax net rather than over-burdening the few that are already paying tax. He added, “Here in Nigeria, many of us spend a lot on infrastructure. What is the basis of increasing VAT? What impact has the government made to improve infrastructure in the country before increasing the tax rate? What has become of all the VAT collected by the government? The government has not fixed the roads to make it more accessible or improved on electricity so that we don’t have to use generators for 12 hours daily. If you are providing the basic infrastructure we don’t mind but the government is not doing that. The group added: “To us, rather than VAT increase, we think the government should give SMEs tax holiday. It should declare a tax holiday for us and not tax increment. The government should make ease of doing business more attractive for us and others in place of tax increase”. In an interview with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Engr. Olumuyiwa Ajibola, President, Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN) frowned at the different economic indicators and data being bandied around as untrue reflection of the economic situation facing the country. “We are served with all sorts of upward-looking data in respect of macroeconomic performance from time to time, but still, in reality, the number of unemployed people is increasing, just as formerly thriving businesses are only struggling hard to survive, if not dead. “Even the CBN understands that businesses need better access to finance to enable them to perform better. The reasons for the slowdown in the economy are not unconnected with factors and policies that are beyond the businesses themselves. He added: “The requirement at this time is more about businesses being energised and given a new lease of life. Increase in taxation may therefore only compound the ability of businesses to deliver whereas what is needed is for them to perform and expand to absorb more of the unemployed citizens”. Addressing VAT increase he said: “Concerning goods, what affects the cost and standard of living is in the quantum of funds available to the individual to spend. “If you add more to the VAT you will be indirectly reducing the effective amount in this regard. Concerning services, don’t forget that the service industry contributes significantly to the GDP, hence the entire economy. When a chunk is taken out of that in terms of VAT taxation, it will affect the performance of the service sector as well. “Sincerely what I think about this is that the proposal should have been subjected to rigorous professional scrutiny with appropriate data assembled and analyzed to determine the projected impact of the increase on the socio-economic performance of the nation in a multi-discipline, multi-professional approach. “In doing that, alternative options will be thrown up and the best one which will minimise the frustration and burden on individuals and businesses will be recommended”. According to him, an upward review of VAT from 5 to 7.2 per cent to service new minimum wage bill mean providing additional salary income on the one hand to the employed, with monies collected from everyone including even themselves through the additional VAT on the other hand. He said: “This by implication means that the individual purchasing power may become less. This suggests that there is a need for a critical professional analysis of all the variants in the economic models that will result from the VAT increase, to be able to arrive at the best option. There would have been no problem if the economy was highly productive and buoyant. “The issue of additional taxation is like a catch 22 situation which tends to leave the people poorer at the end. With additional VAT, the people get poorer as they purchase their needs. The APBN President while advising the government to seek other alternatives he suggested, “What to do is to energise the economy such that everything will work in a way that one will compensate for the other. For instance, at this time, businesses are at a low ebb because there is little spending by the public sector into the economy. He added: “Government is now, more than ever before required to think outside the box in generating the resources needed to run the economy”. The former President of the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) urged the government to assemble professionals, not necessarily economists, to put everything bare on the table and come up with workable solutions to Nigeria’s economy and get back to the government and the organised labour. “I did mention that the team must comprise professionals and not economists alone. In the infrastructure sector, for instance, we know what to do to generate funds. What economic teams do is to roll out actions to be taken to improve the macro-economic outlook of the economy. How this can be achieved will need the participation of experts of the different micro centres which will be supplying the aggregate Macro Values. The team should, therefore, include professionals in the infrastructure sector, finance, Taxation, ICT, Legal sectors. He tasked the economic team to base their final take on the increase in the best interest of Nigerian citizens. “They should base their final decision in the best interest of Nigerian citizens, which will make the citizens live a better life and improve the standard of living in the country. They should take pains to be guided by the best professional advice in the considering and processing the appropriate laws thereof,’ he submitted. Steve Omanufeme, a columnist with DAILY INDEPENDENT wrote, “The Federal Government is targeting N7 trillion in revenue come 2020 and it is hoping to raise that through an increase in taxes. “ It is specifically targeting raising additional N479.7 billion revenue from VAT in fiscal 2020. This means the VAT increase would cost millions of households some extra naira per day thereby reducing spending power considerably. It would also increase consumer price inflation by between 0.6% and 0.8%, according to some analysts “The VAT has been a contentious issue in Nigeria since it replaced the sales tax in 1994. It was pegged at 5% by the military government of Sani Abacha”. It would be recalled that in 2007, former President Olusegun Obasanjo increased VAT to 10% on the eve of his departure from office but it was reversed by his successor, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, following opposition from the labour unions. Some 87 million Nigerians live on less than $1.90 a day, and the imposition of additional taxes could result in figure ballooning. Consumer inflation is still below the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) target range of 6 and 9 per cent. The average consumer is not in a strong position to withstand the additional tax burden. The government should focus more on growing the economy and broadening the tax base rather than overburdening the few taxpaying Nigerians with a tax increase. It should also look at cost-cutting, especially the cost of governance and stop crying wolf of the dearth of revenue while government officials live in opulence.