The police eviction of 143 undocumented refugees and migrants from a disused school building in central Athens has provided the first negative feedback to the three month-old conservative Greek government’s toughening refugee policy. Most of the evictees from the defunct Fifth High School building in the Exarchia neighbourhood were women and children from Syria, Iran, Afghanistan, Iraq and seven other Asian and African countries. About a dozen children were enrolled in local Greek schools, and their sudden disappearance from the classroom raised the ire of their Greek classmates, their parents and their teachers. “We want our children’s classmates back,” said a statement issued on September 25 by the parents’ association of the 35th and 36th elementary schools of Athens. “Thanks to them, many schools in the centre remained open.” These two schools nearly shut two years ago because of the falling numbers of students and the government’s efforts to save money by consolidating educational institutions. READ MORE
Greek police fire tear gas at refugees demanding access to border
The schools’ teachers said in a separate statement: “These are our students … They are Boshed, Mariam, Rashid and Mohammed, and they need to come back to school and to stay in their neighbourhood.” Some of the evicted asylum seekers had settled as early as 2016. Fed and clothed by charities and local volunteers, they lived outside the state-sanctioned system of government-run camps and European Union-subsidised apartments. They quickly integrated with the local community. “Our children saw the eviction,” says Dafni Sinani, a psychologist whose two young boys played with the refugee children in the local playground. “The eviction happened just as the children were going to school. They saw the police buses. Many were frightened. Many were worried about the people they knew. They asked, ‘why are they taking their home away?’ and, ‘where are they taking them?’. They still ask, ‘where are they now?'” Volunteers rushed to the squat as the eviction was in process on the morning of September 23. Many fought back tears as they waved to the children they had tutored in English, Greek, football and baseball.