ABUJA – Hon. Abdullahi Mahmoud Gaya, (APC, Kano), Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), has called on members of his committee to brace up for the challenges ahead in their quest to carry out their legislative oversight. The chairman who congratulated his colleagues on their electoral victories noted that the downstream sector of the petroleum industry remained outstanding and pivotal to the survival of the common man, big as well as small scale businesses. He said as daunting as the task ahead might be, the committee cannot afford to fail in its duty to effectively oversight all the agencies under its purview. While listing the agencies under its oversight responsibility, the chairman again reminded members of the challenges of contending with unruly and condescending bureaucrats, adding that committee work also entails harmony and sincerity of purpose among members. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He stressed the need for transparency and accountability, as well as individual and collective support of all members to enable the committee succeed in its assignment. Also at the Committee on Reformatory Institutions, the chairman, Hon. Lazarus Ogheh (PDP, Ogbeh), called on members of his committee to see their inclusion in the committee as a call to service. He reiterated the need to help decongest the nation’s correctional (prison) facilities using effective legislative oversight. Hon. Ogbeh noted that while all the states of the federation are not yet represented on the committee, there are already 22 members on the list supplied by the Secretariat. He outlined the oversight responsibilities of the committee, saying that as enormous as the task before them might be, the committee must strive to achieve its mandates given by the leadership of the House. “Prison decongestion forms one of the cardinal points of the name change for the correctional institutions from prison as they were hitherto known,” he said. He assured colleagues that every member of the committee would be carried along in the discharge of the committee’s mandate with a view to achieving a collective and desired objective. Other committee meetings attended demonstrated similar commitment this reporter, with chairmen challenging members on the need to live up the standard established by the House leadership. The inaugural meetings are to herald full legislative activities in the 9th House of Representatives which legislative mantra is ‘Nation Building, A Joint Task’, a working guide derived from the Speaker’s campaign slogan.