Bolaji Ariyoh is the Executive Chairman of Oshodi/Isolo Local Government Area. In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, he spoke on what his administration has been able to achieve in two years of his second term. He spoke on his challenges in roads rehabilitation; how he has been to surmount these challenges and especially how he has been able to bring relative peace to Oshodi, which used to be volatile when it comes to security. Excerpts: Two years after assuming office, how would you described the journey? So far, the journey has been very challenging but with the help of God, the cooperation of the legislative arm and members of staff, we have been able to surmount all challenges. Upon assuming office on 22nd of July, 2017, we started working round the clock without leaving any stone unturned for the realisation of the envisioned growth and development of Oshodi/Isolo in fulfillment of our electoral promises, which beyond any shadow of doubt are audible even to the deaf and visual to the visually impaired, that the greatness of Oshodi is the utmost priority of our administration with the delivery of 21st century dividends of democracy that are human oriented. Our administration at the grassroots has touched all the core facets of governance ranging from infrastructural development, education, security, empowerment and wealth creation, social and sports development, health and the environment. If we start to mention from now till tomorrow all those things we have done, the paper may not be able to accommodate those things. But in all, we want to appreciate God for giving us the power to do those things and the residents for their cooperation because if there is no support from the residents, we won’t be here today. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network Let us look at the issue of the environment, Oshodi/Isolo is one of the most populous local government areas in Lagos. Considering the fact you have a major market in your domain, how do you deal with environmental challenges? Recently, our local government was adjudged the most clean local government by the Lagos environment platform, this was as a result of the proactive mechanism of our administration, which we put in place in ensuring that Oshodi is not only clean but remains healthy and serves as threat to cholera and other epidemic outbreak. The introduction of Operation Clean Up of Oshodi by this administration and the proactiveness of the environmental department of the local government in creating awareness and enforcement of sanitation laws have helped in maintaining a clean environment in Oshodi. Recently, we purchased equipment to help the operations of the environmental/health department in fumigation of markets and other places in the community to avoid diseases. Our efforts so far have sustained Oshodi community to be clean and free of filths despite the challenge of refuse disposal by the state, Oshodi has remained one of the cleanest local governments in Lagos State. The local government is currently discussing a proposal on refuse disposal management with a foreign partner, which would see the local government having refuse silos to recycle refuse generated in the local government to produce items and materials that can been used in road construction, maintenance and by construction companies. In Nigeria today, the number of out of school children is said to have reached an alarming state. What effort has your administration put in place to ensure every child of school get the basic and affordable education? For us in Oshodi/Isolo Local Government, we believe that education is the bedrock of any society and for this reason our administration recently gave bursary and education assistance to pupils in primary schools within the Oshodi education district, this was done in conjunction with private organisation to assist the pupils in their education. Many of Oshodi indigent students in tertiary institutions also enjoy bursary through our administration’s palliative measure education. Over 150 students across the community were sometimes ago given free UTME forms and we did this with the promise of free scholarships to successful students. While we have already upgraded some of the infrastructural facilities in some of the primary schools, we are still planning to upgrade some other ones. The education department of the local government has continued to enhance teacher’s skills through seminars and trainings for teachers both in private and public schools, spelling bee and other competitions couple with other awards for students and teachers to encourage their performances, while school bus is used to give the students free ride to and fro their schools. Earlier, you mentioned that you have done a lot in the area of infrastructural development. Can you share some of the things you have done? When roads are bad drainages are blocked, the environment becomes irritating and threat to people’s lives and their economic well-being. The economic growth of any nation depends on the infrastructure put in place, which is also one of the indexes for development. On assuming office two years ago, we discovered that many of the roads in the local government require government’s attention and at the same time, we realise that all the roads cannot be fixed at once, so we immediately, set up Operation Repair All Roads in Oshodi. At the end of our first year, we were able to grade and rehabilitated over twenty roads. We have been able to upgrade the Oshodi UNDP vocational/training institute with furniture and modern equipment to make the institute environment conducive for learning. Today, the Oshodi UNDP vocational/training institute is presently offering various courses on skill acquisitions and ICT trainings. Offices within the local government secretariat and area offices have been renovated with modern furniture, computer systems and so on to encourage and boost the morale of the workforce of the local government. In addition to that, we have lighten up the local government secretariat with solar system, which keeps the secretariat illuminated always. Our marriage registry was renovated and reconstructed with new air conditioners, this is done so as to accommodate more guests. The registry is now rated as one of the best in the state. Having said all these, we have a major challenge in the area of road. Every area within the local government wants their roads to be fixed but it is impossible for us to achieve this considering the present weather condition. The climate change is not helping us, we would have actually loved to attend to every bad road within the community. Climate change has been one of the major factors responsible for lack of infrastructural development, especially in the area of roads rehabilitation in Oshodi. It is our desire to embark on massive rehabilitation of inner roads, but the unending rainy season has continued to hinder us from achieving this. If we start to work on all the bad roads at this period, I personally will end up crying because the weather at the moment is not in our favour. We all know what before now, by this time of the year, the rainy season would have gone but the climate change has affected this and it is not so again. If we have to embark on any project now, we will need to consult the weather forecasters. Another issue affecting us is the fact that Lagos state is below the sea level and whenever it rains, everywhere is flooded and when you even say you want to work, flood will even wash off the asphalt. Also, we have a problem with motor mechanics, especially those working by roadsides who are fond of pouring diesel, petrol and engine oil on the road. These people need to stop pouring petrol, diesel and engine oil on the road because these substances are capable of removing asphalts. So what we have been doing is diverting these funds to other projects but we have continued to put palliative measures in place to ensure that every inner road in Oshodi/Isolo is motorable for every road user. Like the popular saying goes, health is wealth, what would you say are your major achievements in the area of primary health care? In conjunction with the Lagos State government, we have ensured that the primary health centres in the community are upgraded with modern facilities. All the primary health centres in our vicinity now operates 24 hours non-stop, this is to enable the people enjoy free health services. Our public health facilities are more efficient with high productive staff and with right attitude to work. The public health centres now have toll lines where the people can call to report any staff who misbehaves in the discharge of his/her duty. Your local government is very volatile when it comes to the issue of security. How are you addressing security challenges? Since my administration assumed office, our local government has been enjoying relative peace and this is because we have been working relentlessly to ensure security of lives and properties of the people. Our administration’s constant meeting with security personnel and members of the CDAs and CDCs have resulted in the promulgation of security bye law by the local government legislative arm, which would further strengthen the security of the environment. The good working relationship between the security agencies and d our administration has resulted into quick and prompt response from the security agents whenever there is any form breakdown of law and order.