Boris Johnson’s new Brexit plan will face the scrutiny of two critical groups of skeptics on Thursday, one in the U.K. Parliament and another at the European Commission. The British prime minister is optimistic he’s finally got enough support from Tory hardliners to win the backing of lawmakers in Westminster. In Brussels, however, officials said Johnson’s proposals are still unacceptable and there’s little chance of a deal by Oct. 31 unless the U.K. makes significant additional concessions. The EU’s base case is now that Brexit has to be delayed again, even though Johnson has vowed not to seek an extension, the officials said. After speaking to the U.K. leader Wednesday evening, Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said the proposals “don’t meet the agreed objectives.” With less than a month to go before Brexit day, Johnson on Wednesday unveiled a compromise package that aims to satisfy both the European Union and the arch euroskeptics in his party. Within hours, his de facto deputy, Michael Gove, told ITV’s Robert Peston he’s confident the proposal can win a “pretty solid majority” in Westminster. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network But the EU is set to reject the plan in its current form, a European official said. While it gives negotiators something to work with, there’s not enough time left to get it into workable shape, the official added. According to a diplomatic note from the commission on the proposals for the so-called Irish backstop, they risk damaging the all-Ireland economy and undermining the bloc’s single market. The EU also has big concerns about giving the Northern Ireland assembly a veto. Johnson’s plan is for politicians in the assembly in Belfast to give its consent for the arrangements every four years. In one area that the Irish government is sure to pick up, it is unclear what would happen if that consent didn’t come — the whole point of the backstop is to give certainty that there’ll be no border checks in any circumstances. The EU’s chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier will brief ambassadors from the other 27 member states on Johnson’s proposals in Brussels on Thursday afternoon.