At least 161 people have lost their lives in floods in India and Pakistan, as the two South Asian countries received torrential rains over the past few days, official and local media said. According to Indian media, the authorities have evacuated thousands of people to safer places after heavy rains and flood caused devastation in several parts of the country. So far the highest number of death were reported from northern Uttar Pradesh state — where 111 people were killed, while 29 people lost their lives in eastern Bihar state, according to India Today broadcaster. At least 13 people were killed in northern Uttarakhand and Rajasthan, and central Madhya Pradesh states. According to an Indian meteorological department official, the country has received the highest rainfall in this monsoon season since 1994. “Rainfall received so far is 10% more than the normal, which is highest in the last 25 years,” India Today quoted an official of metrological department was saying. Meanwhile, the flood water also entered the barracks of district jail of Ballia, forcing the authorities to shift around 900 prisoners to other jails in the country. Videos and photos published in India media shows that flood water inundated houses, shops, hospitals, schools and effected the normal life of locals Pakistani authorities on Tuesday said that at least eight people — including five children — lost their lives during the last 24 hours in rain and flood-related incidents. “Five people — including two children — died and four other injured when a roof of their house collapsed in Mardan district of northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province,” Bilal Ahmad, spokesman for Rescue 1122 told Anadolu Agency. Three children were washed away by flash flood in northwestern Lower Dir, he added. Pakistan’s meteorological department has predicted more rains in the country during the current week. “Westerly wave is presently affecting upper and central parts of the country. This weather system is likely to interact with monsoon currents on Wednesday and it will grip most parts of the country on Thursday,” the metrological department said in a statement. Heavy rains may trigger landslide in Malakand, Hazara, Gilgit-Baltistan and Kashmir in the next four to five days, the statement added. 