LAGOS – With the allocation of $250million pension’s Asset under Management (AuM), the Private Equity market would not be the same again. According to Ms Mary Uduk, the Acting Director General, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), “the provision for allocation of $250 million of the pension Assets under Management (AuM) of private equity investment, there lies huge potential for the sector to drive economic growth potentials of the Nigerian economy.” Private equity, according to experts, is a type of investment which is provided for a medium to long term period to companies who have high growth potential in exchange for a certain percentage of equity of the investee. These high growth firms are not listed companies on any exchange. In her remark during the inauguration of the Equity Committee in Abuja recently, Uduk described the private sector as key drivers for economic growth and development as they create jobs and pay the taxes that finance services and investments. The National Pension Commission (PenCom); Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); Nigerian Sovereign Wealth Fund; Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC); the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); and Nigerian Association of Securities Dealers are among the key institutions in the committee. The Acting Director General, who was represented by Acting Executive Commissioner Corporate Services of the SEC, Mr. Henry Rowlands, said the inauguration of the SEC Private Equity Committee is ahead of the planned National Private Equity Summit. She said the event is an epoch making one for the country as it underscores one of its objectives of facilitating proper understanding and appreciation by government of the importance of private sector activities as key drivers of private sector led economic growth. According to Uduk, “the Nigerian government recognises the importance of private sector-led economic growth, hence it has put in place several partnerships and initiatives between the private sector and the government with a view to achieving optimal economic growth. “The private sector remains the key driver of economic growth with the federal government providing enabling framework to galvanise and support private sector investors and participants through such vehicle as private equity funds. “A McKinsey report highlights this fact by its data that reveals that private equity net assets grew as much as 70% from 2002 till 2018 and twice as fast as public equities. This underscores the high growth rate of private sector investment through private equity funds operations” she stated. “I seize this opportunity to sincerely appreciate Henshaw Capital and Partners for this initiative and all the institutions and agencies that have accepted to participate in this working committee” Uduk added. Mr. Efiok Ekpenyong Efiok, Head, Investment Management Department, SEC said the SEC Private Equity Committee is a SEC driven Committee based on Private sector initiative led by Henshaw Capital Partners in collaboration with key financial sector stakeholders, Federal Government and private sector Institutions.