The Iraqi military admitted on Monday that “excessive force” was used in a district of the capital overnight where a mass protest led to clashes that killed dozens. The number of those killed has not yet been verified, however some sources claim 13 were killed, while others reported 15. The reports of the deaths come as the military made an announcement admitted using “excessive force outside the rules of engagement.” “We have begun to hold accountable those commanding officers who carried out these wrong acts,” the military said in a statement. However, Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi had called on all forces to abide by the “rules of engagement” in dealing with rallies. In his only address to the protesters last week, Mahdi had insisted security forces were Hundreds had gathered overnight in Sadr City, a densely populated district in eastern Baghdad where state security forces are rarely seen. Videos distributed on social media of the late-night rally showed protesters ducking in streets littered with burning tires as heavy gunfire was heard. In a statement distributed to journalists on Monday morning, the Iraqi military said the prime minister had ordered “all army units to withdraw from Sadr City to be replaced with federal police units.” Baghdad has been at the center of anti-government protests that have quickly spread to the country’s south. The protesters have been demanding jobs and an end to corruption and now include calls for justice for those killed in the protests. The death toll after six days of unrest has been estimated to have passed 100 and more than 6,000 have been wounded. This has been the most serious challenge facing Iraq two years after the victory against Daesh militants. The chaos also comes at a critical time for the government, which has been caught in the middle of increasing US-Iran tensions in the region. Iraq is allied with both countries and hosts thousands of US troops, as well as powerful paramilitary forces allied with Iran. On Monday, Mahdi discussed the protests in a phone call with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. “The Prime Minister reviewed developments in the security situation and the return to normal life after the curfew was lifted, and confirmed that security forces had resumed control and stability had been restored,” a statement said from his office said. The statement said the government has put forward a package of reforms and will continue to provide more to meet the demands of the protesters. Meanwhile, the UN envoy for Iraq appealed for an end to the violence and holding to account those responsible for it. “This must stop. I call on all parties to pause and reflect,” Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert tweeted Saturday night.