Lagos – The Managing Director of Lagos Deep Offshore Logistic Base (LADOL), Dr. Amy Jadesimi, has said that her company’s biggest challenges are caused by Africans who don’t believe in its success stories in Nigeria and the continent. She disclosed this, recently when she spoke alongside the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, Amina Mohammed at the launch of Africa Influencers for Development (AID) at the United Nations General Assembly in New York United States of America. She said: “At every hurdle we have been met with scepticism and naysayers, sometime most vocally amongst our own people. Very often this is not about self-interest it is about a lack of self-belief. On the other hand, as I always say, working in Nigeria for 15 years has restored my faith in humanity. “Over the years brave, visionaries in public and private sector have risked much to do the right thing where LADOL is concerned because they believed it was possible for a Nigerian company to outperform a foreign one and they therefore believed that LADOL would create the jobs and add the value we have gone on to create.” She maintained that Ladol was a company that had been laundered for achieving many firsts, adding that the development was an indicator of how few strong prosperous innovative indigenous companies Nigeria has. She advocated the need to use the initiative to ensure that companies like LADOL became the norm and not the exception. AID is a bold new platform to bring Africans together in partnerships to drive the continent’s development with the support of United Nations Development Programme. Jadesimi was selected to join this movement because of her proven commitment to Africa’s progress and her firm believes that Africa’s power and prosperity is in partnerships. AID seeks to implement new ways to put Africa at the heart of its own development by harnessing the continent’s creative, intellectual and entrepreneurial energy through a powerful coalition of current and future African influencers in business, academia and the arts.