Oyo State Governor, Engr.Seyi Makinde, has advised leaders and members of the Ondo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to close ranks to ensure a viable party ahead of the next election season in the state. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the Governor gave the charge at the second anniversary of the Ondo State PDP Support Group (PSG) held in Akure, the state capital. The Governor declared that the PDP in Ondo must remain united to face future electoral challenges. Governor Makinde, who was represented by his Deputy Chief of Staff, Mr. Abdul-Mojeed Mogbonjubola at the event, stated that he was ready to join hands with the state chapter of the PDP to achieve the needed unity. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, Ondo State used to be one of the strongholds of the PDP in the South-West, adding that without unity of purpose, the target of electoral success could be a mirage. He stated that all hands aimed at rebuilding the party must be on deck ahead of the future challenges. The event, which was held at the BTO Hall, Akure, Ondo State, featured a lecture with the topic “PDP: Harnessing the trust of the people,” which was delivered by Chief Tokunbo Modupe, the MD/CEO TPT International. In his speech, the coordinator of the group, Hon. Bode Obanla, said that the gathering was to discuss the fortunes of the party with all eyes focused on future challenges. He added that the gathering was also aimed at galvanising members of the PSG to ensure that they all take responsibility for the needs to ensure success for the party in its future endeavours. Obanla said: “But we have succeeded where many have failed and achieved unprecedented unity for our party in a period of war. That, once again, proved that no single political party has the internal cohesive structure like the PDP.” He maintained that the PSG as a group has achieved successes for itself, which has enabled the leadership of PDP to be able to adequately respond to trends within the Nigerian polity and to constantly position the party at an advantage. Obanla encouraged all the PDP faithful to remain loyal to the party and to shun all divisive antics capable of destroying the party. He called on members of the group to embrace oneness as they go into the next election in the state. Other PDP chieftains who were at the programme include the State Elders’ Committee chairman, Dr. Omotayo Dairo; BOT member, Chief Segun Adegoke; state party deputy chairman of the PDP, Hon. Fatai Adams as well as a number of gubernatorial aspirants for next year’s election.