LAGOS –  After two-and-half decades, the Old Students, 1994 set of Lagos African Church Grammar School (LAFROGRAMS), Ifako, in Lagos reunited to celebrate their silver jubilee anniversary with donation of home economics laboratory to their alma mater. The reunion, which took place in the school’s premises at the weekend, was an opportunity to see old faces, encourage the young ones in the school and most importantly, to honour Annette Adeoba, their former principal and one of their mentors who contributed significantly to their career by naming the laboratory after her. According to Alex Adelakun, the Governor of 1994 Set, “It was a time to give back to the school, the facilities and learning materials that would help her maintain its standard and aid the students to academic excellence. “It has been 25 years we left here. We thought of not just celebrating our reunion but also to contribute our quota to our alma mater. That’s what informed our gathering today. We had in mind different things to give to the school but when we came to inquire, we realised that some aspects had been met by another set.” “Expansion and equipping the school’s Home Economics Laboratory became our project based on the school’s needs. For us, it is a dream comes true. It is our hope and prayer that it would be judiciously used for the progress of the students and the school as a whole”, the governor prayed. Also, speaking with Daily Independent, Segun Fasola, the set’s General Secretary, said the laboratory would help the students to learn and acquire new vocational skills beyond theoretical works. “With the expansion and new facilities we put in place, new door of opportunities are now open to the students to learn new vocations like catering, tailoring and so on. It is a great opportunity for them and from time to time, we shall continue to give our support,” Fasola assured. The decision of the group to name the laboratory after their old principal was born out of the relationship they had with her. “Adeoba deserves this honour because of her sterling attributes. She is a woman with a good heart, very strict and passionate. She gave her best to raise standard of education,” said Tewa Onasanya, one of the executive members of the set. In response, Adeoba, former principal and honouree, said it was a thing of joy, a big honour to be remembered in that manner. She took them down memory lane, saying it was dint of hard work and perseverance that has kept her and is still helping the school maintain high academic standard. She thanked her old students for the honour, impacting on the school and urged them to maintain the bond of students-teacher relationship. She assured that the facilities would be maintained and properly used for the betterment of the students.