Curtain will fall on the 2019/2020 PGA of Nigeria Qualifying School which began earlier in the year on October 22-23 at the Port Harcourt Club, Golf Section. The occasion will commence with a seminar entitled, “Golf Professionalism and Self Development,” which will be declared open by Dr. Tony Philmoore, a PGA Nigeria (senior tour) member and Chairman of Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State on October 22. Over 80 men and some lady golfers making their maiden appearance (for a professional career) are expected to converge on the Garden City to take their classroom and practical tests. Jide Bolaji, Secretary, PGA of Nigeria told DAILY IDEPENDENT, “There are 79 men and some lady golfers; this is their first appearance in the Qualifying School and it is a good development for the association.” Powered by RubiQube Ad Network The first seminar topic of the Day1 is – “Golf Professionalism and Self Development” and the second topic is – “Playing Ability and Rules of Golf and Etiquette.” The other topics which will wrap up the first day’s seminar are “Golf and Its Health Benefits” and “Benefits of a PGA Pro to a Golf Club/Resort,” just as there will also be playing ability pre-test for the participants. The second day October 23 which is the grand finale will have the golfers file out on the course for 18 holes practical game. However, participants are expected to arrive for the seminar on October 21 as October 24 will be the departure date. Samson Lawal, PGA of Nigeria Director believes that this dispensation is marks a mile stone in the annals of the association if the inclusion of women is anything to go by. “Our women must be carried along if we must meet up with the global professional practices of golf. That is where we are heading; now we have women participating in the Qualifying school – it’s a big plus for game. I charge everyone to do his/her best according to the rules of the game at te seminar,” the Director said. Security and other logistics according the organisers would be put in place before and while the event lasts.