Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) yesterday attributed slow growth recorded in the Nigerian economy in recent years to the delay in passage of budgets and the below 50 per cent implementation by the Federal Government. Mr. Timothy Olawale, the Director-General, NECA in a statement said that the national development was hinged on proper budgeting and disciplined implementation of the budget, which he said Nigeria had been lacking over the years. He explained that the earliest time the Nigerian budget was passed in recent time was in 2016, which he said was in the month of March noting that Nigeria’s fiscal year begins in January and ends in December. “We cannot begin to imagine the dire consequences of the late passage of the budget on national development and business growth,” he said. He emphasised that in Ghana for instance, the budget for the 2019 fiscal year was approved in November 2018, while in Ethiopia, the budget for the 2018-2019 fiscal years was approved few days before the commencement of the fiscal year in July 2018. He also mentioned Egypt as one of the countries on the continent where budgets are passed and assented to early, wondering why Nigeria could not emulate such countries. He noted that the stability and predictability of the budgetary process of these countries could be one of the reasons they were becoming the new desired destination for foreign investments. The NECA’s Director General equally agreed that the attempt to return the nation to a January – December budgetary year was welcome, stressing that beyond enabling government to focus on the business of development, it would also improve investors’ confidence and aid planning for both the private and public sectors. He added: “Businesses thrive on certainty of government policies and programmes, a return to January to December fiscal year and focused implementation of same will, no doubt, accelerate national development. “Implementation is largely based on availability of revenue, however, Government should do well to ensure fiscal discipline, cut wastages and put more life into the war against corruption.” Olawale, however,  canvassed for speedy action by both the executive and legislature to make this a reality, pointing out that no efforts must be spared to achieve a 100 per cent implementation.