AKURE – Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Wednesday assured the people of South West that all governors from the zone were tackling security challenges headlong. The Chairman of South West Governors Forum, who revealed this in Akure, the state capital, at a church service for the state’s Covenant Renewal Day 2019, said the governors were re-jigging the security architecture of the zone to tackle the new challenges. Represented by his deputy, Agboola Ajayi, the governor said, “It is no longer news that out country is going through security challenges. Therefore, all hands must be on deck to salvage it together. “We are doing our best to respond comprehensively to the new challenges. Ondo State is working in collaboration with sister states in South-western zone to re-jig the security architecture of the zone to make it respond adequately to the new challenges. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network “Government has never relented on its efforts to curb crime and criminalities within our boundaries. We will continue this until our people can sleep with their two eyes closed. “Nigeria must survive its challenges and it is possible if we all agree and pray together in unison.” Akeredolu explained that the church service provided the platform to renew strength of the state and pray to God for brighter future. He, however, advised other states of the Federation as well as the Federal Government to renew their covenant with God annually. “There is, therefore, a compelling need for collaboration of all stakeholders in the task of building a virile and egalitarian society. “It is indeed heartening to be in the presence of several eminent spiritual leaders of Christian body for 2019 edition of this special programme. “It will be recalled that I gladly participated in the last edition, because we know that our dear state and indeed Nigeria need continuous prayers. “Our administration since inception has partnered the Ondo State chapters of PFN, CAN and other groups, in almost all their programmes and events,” the governor said.