The Nigeria Union Of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), has accused some International Oil Companies (IOCs) and their labour contractors in the oil and gas industry of indecent employment contract system, saying that they have introduced,  and in the same vein been offering three, six and maximum of twelve months employment to their members. NUPENG added that the IOCs have not only violated the contract terms but have kept rolling it over for several years. Comrade (Prince) Williams Akporeha, the national president of the union, who made the disclosure at the end of the Central Working Committee meeting (CWC) of the union in Lagos at the weekend, said the trend is a major concern to the leadership of NUPENG. He said: “CWC-in-session seriously frowns at this imposition of indecent work condition by various International Oil Companies (IOCs) and their local collaborators as it is illegal, unfair, and inhuman to keep giving a worker three, six and twelve months employment contract and keep rolling it over for several years. Our statutory institutions and agencies saddled with the responsibility of protecting Workers job interest must start addressing these challenges of workers exploitation and abuses now. He explained that the Nigerian labour laws are being barefacedly contravened with impunity by the employers, while our Statutory Agencies and institutions are fiddling, and added that “sadly the situation is getting worse by the day. Akporekha stressed that the unhealthy contract circle in the industry can further impoverish workers in the Oil and Gas industry, and on that note called for immediate stoppage of the unfortunate trend in the interest of industrial peace and harmony. He noted that the CWC-in-Session was using the opportunity thrown up by the conference to call on the federal government and other relevant authorities to call to multinational and indigenous oil and gas companies to order. The labour leader emphasised that it is expedient the government call them to order as they constantly exhibit anti-union postures through refusal to allow unionisation of Contract workers, refusal to negotiate, refusal to recognise workers already organised, even as they engaged in multiple fragmentation of contracts to frustrate the efforts of the Union in organising the workers. He added that the IOCs were wont to treat labour relations issues with contempt and disdain to the extent of refusing implementation on rulings of Industrial Arbitration Panels whenever it goes against the wishes of the affected companies. While disclosing companies that have been found wanting in the alleged violation, Akporegha said:  “It is regrettable to note that NAOC and its Service Contractors have refused to review the service workers’ condition of service since 2012, hiding under the guise of litigation which has nothing to do with the Union. No one should take the patience of the Union for weakness or abandonment of our responsibility; we have waited this long so as not to give room for misinterpretation of our actions. “We will not hesitate to take some decisive actions in coming weeks if these situations are not immediately ameliorated; some of these companies include NEST Oil and its Contractors, Shell Petroleum Development Companies with its Contractors, Nigeria Liquified Natural Gas (NLNG) and its Contractors such as WAEP, MIDIS Nig Ltd, RYPAC, D.A ENTERPRISES, Slumberger Nigeria Limited with its Contractors and AMCON as it affects ASCOT”.