Katsina – Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State has on Tuesday night recieved 23 Nigerians sold as slaves in Burkina Faso. The victims include an elderly man and 12 men from Kankara council area of the state, as well as 10 men who are indigenes of neighbouring Zamfara state. It would be recalled that, seven other victims had been earlier assisted to return to the country, bringing the total number to 30. All of them were said to have been tricked into slavery after one Alhaji Usman, (now at large) sold them to a female trafficker in neighbouring Benin Republic, before she later sold them off to another trafficker in Burkina Faso. The said Alhaji Usman is presently been trained by the security agents who are said to be in possession of his mobile phone numbers. One of the victims, Ali Ali, while narrating their ordeal, said they were promised menial jobs that would fetch them good money once they agreed to go and aawork in Burkina Faso. Ali said they were transported from Kankara council area to Benin Republic and handed over to a woman who later handed them over to a man when they arrived in Burkina Faso. According to him, they began to work and for several days, they were not given food to eat, and were being maltreated cruelly.
.
“Some of them became very sick, and were refused medical attention of any kind, these raised the suspicion that, they may have been sold into Slavery in the country”. Governor Aminu Bello Masari, while speaking at the brief reception for the victims, said two other victims were supposed to have joined them back to Nigeria, but were reluctant due to suspicion that, they had connection with the man who sold them into slavery. He also averred that, in the event if some other persons were identified as facing similar slavery conditions outside the country, government would strive to see that they were also brought back home. He however assured that, despite the expenses incurred to bring them back home, government would rehabilitate them after they would have gone through the necessary security checks.