LAGOS – The 2014 National Conference was inaugurated by former president, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan on 17 March 2014 and there were about 492 delegates that represented a cross-section of Nigerians including the professional bodies group. The Conference was headed by retired Chief Justice Idris Kutigi. The conference, amongst other things, recommended for the restructuring of the Nigerian federal system of government. Even though some sections of Nigerians condemned the gathering, describing it as a waste of resources and an avenue for enriching certain individuals, some others were of the opinion that the Confab report had in it certain recommendations that must be implemented to move the nation forward. Jonathan, who was the organiser of the confab ultimately couldn’t implement the recommendations, which eventually vindicated those who had earlier condemned the gathering. Jonathan, had in July this year, noted that it was time to implement the report of 2014 national conference which his administration convened. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, his government could not implement the recommendations of the confab because of time constraint as the 2015 electioneering had reached its peak. Jonathan, who spoke in Lagos during the public presentation of a 669-page book, The Dream: Pursuing the Black Renaissance through the Murky Waters of Nigerian Politics, written by Senator Femi Okurounmu, said most of the problems facing the country would be addressed if 2014 confab report was implemented. Jonathan said, “I believe the constitutional conference will solve our immediate challenges. My administration was prepared to change the narrative of our constitutional democracy with the assurance that sovereignty belongs to the people. “However, we were constrained by time. The conference was conducted one year to the end of my tenure. We did not have the time; even the National Assembly, which ought to have validated the report, was busy with political survival. I did not insist on a rushed implementation because my administration did not set out to achieve political popularity but to genuinely advance the course of nation-building.” However, Junaid Mohammed, a Second Republic federal lawmaker, on Tuesday, said the 2014 national conference was a fraud, which was allegedly manipulated by the former president and some other people in order not to favour the North. Mohammed had at different fora, maintained that if President Buhari implements the report of the 2014 National Conference, he would plunge the country into a constitutional crisis. He believes that with the country already facing different crises, the administration would not be able to contend with the constitutional crises the implementation of the report would cause. According to him, the manner the participants of the conference were selected was undemocratic. The whole arrangement was aimed at ensuring that ex-President Goodluck Jonathan won a re-election. The delegates were handpicked by Jonathan and the governors. “It should be recalled that most Nigerians kicked against the conference. So, the conference itself was a political arrangement. There was no sincerity of purpose on the part of the government. Every Nigerian who followed the process would attest to that,” he stated. It would be recalled that Jonathan, who lost the 2015 presidential election, handed over the confab report to President Buhari. Though, Buhari has refused to implement the report, saying it would be kept in the archives. Speaking in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT on calls by some Nigerians that the report of the conference be implemented, Junaid, who was also a delegate to the conference, alleged that many of the issues that were rejected during the conference were smuggled into the final report of the conference. According to Junaid, “Those saying that the report should be implemented, have they read the report? Has anyone of us who attended the conference told Nigerians what aspect we want to be implemented? “I was at the 2014 national conference. I represented Kano State, which is one of the two biggest states in the country. I had been involved in several conferences in the past and even after the 2014 conference, we also had another one here in Kano concerning the state. “As far as I am concerned, that 2014 confab is a fraud. What they are purporting to be the report is a fraud. Most of the issues that we discussed, which were rejected was brought back into the final report through the backdoor. They did that with the full cooperation of the then president, Goodluck Jonathan. “But we defeated every issue they brought even though we are in the minority. If you want to have a constitutional conference, one, it must be representative of the whole country. People don’t feel unnecessarily marginalised,” he said. Junaid said it was absurd that the Northern region, which he said has the highest population and has always been in the majority even before 1914 amalgamation was treated as a minority at the conference. According to him, despite being accorded the minority status, the North defeated others in most of the issues discussed at the conference. “The North has been in the majority of Nigerian population even before 1914. You cannot have a constitutional conference in which the North has been reduced to a minority and you say you are holding a national conference. How is that possible? In spite of this fraud, we still defeated them. “It was one of the gimmicks employed by former President Goodluck Jonathan and we know that. In fact, the idea in the North was that we should boycott the confab. “But we thought that may affect the unity of the country and we don’t want to be held responsible historically for that. So, that was why we went, we saw and we defeated them.” While responding to Junaid’s allegation, Afenifere, a pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, challenged him to mention some of the rejected issues discussed at the conference that were smuggled into the report through the backdoor. Yinka Odumakin, the group’s National Publicity Secretary, said Junaid displayed brazen disregard for the truth, character and integrity through his utterances. “Can Junaid mention such items? One is amazed at how some of our compatriots display brazen disregard for the truth, character and integrity when they push sectional and parochial agenda no matter the level of facade they wear. “I put it to Dr. Mohammed that he is not a witness of truth until he points out those items,” Odumakin said. It would also be recalled that a former Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav in 2016, urged President Buhari to discard the confab report. He said the report of the conference could not be perceived to be the genuine wishes and aspirations of all segments of the country and Nigerians in general. Tsav faulted the procedure adopted in the selection of those who attended the conference, maintaining that the process was skewed from the onset. According to him, “People clamoured for a National Conference during the last administration and the then President Goodluck Jonathan inaugurated one, but what we had did was not a national conference. “President Jonathan, to a large extent, handpicked and selected the people he was comfortable with and those were the people who attended the conference. We cannot in all sincerity describe what we had then as a collection of the people’s representatives. “Right from day one, we criticised the composition of the conference. Jonathan selected people he wanted and they went there to discuss what was favorable to him. Also, a former spokesman of the Senate, Dr. Jonathan Zwingina, had in July, said it would be very difficult for the current National Assembly to pass the reports of the 2014 National Conference. Zwingina, who spoke at the second annual lecture of the ‘Legislative Digest’, a publication of the National Assembly, held in Abuja, said, the conference does not amount to a national consensus. While delivering a lecture captioned “Consolidating Democracy: Agenda for the Ninth National Assembly”, the former Senate’s spokesman said that restructuring itself cannot hold unless issues being canvassed got the two-third votes of the National Assembly. Though, political observers, have argued that Buhari’s administration took the report from the administration of Jonathan, but are also of the view that taking and working on some of recommendations of the report, wouldn’t be a bad idea. Mohammed