Trade unions and their managements have been urged to identify challenges facing the industry as this would offer opportunities for robust discussions. Mr. William Alo , the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, made this assertion in Abuja on the occasion of the fifth Registrar of Trade Unions Annual Workshop on Current Challenges and Prospect of Trade Unions Administration in Nigeria. According to Alo, unions play critical roles in social economic development of any nation, noting that workers who form the trade unions were an integral part of the growth and development process of the national economy. He, therefore, suggested the need to accord adequate recognition and allot appreciable time to matters that affect the welfare of workers in various sectors of the economy, while at the same time recognising the right of employers to have a peaceful and effective industrial relations environment. Making reference to the theme of the workshop: ‘Effective Industrial Conflict Resolution Mechanism, A Panacea for Sustainable Growth and Development,’ the Permanent Secretary said there was nothing wrong in having challenges, saying that challenges in themselves were not an end. He, therefore ,urged participants to engage in meaningful dialogue and instructive brainstorming sessions that would proffer real term solutions to the various challenges confronting trade union administration in the country. In his goodwill message, Dennis Zulu, the Country Director of the International Labour Organisation said, while the role of the unions in national development could not be negotiated, he implored them to engage in social dialogue to achieve the desired growth and development. Also the Director-General of NECA, Mr. Timothy Oluwole requested labour unions to follow due process in handling challenges and prospect of trade union administration. The Vice President, Trade Union Congress, Comrade Oyinkan Olasoyin said that national growth and development was key to the well-being of workers and therefore appeal to the Federal Government to conclude the unending negotiation and conflict in relation to the implementation of the national minimum wage.