Lagos – The Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika has called on the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) to support the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) policy. Sirika, while addressing the 40th Assembly of ICAO in Montreal, Canada, recently said that SAATM could be used as incentives to achieve global liberalisation of market access. Sirika declared that Nigeria had been a major champion of air liberalisation on the continent, stressing that the efforts had been yielding results, which included increased manual traffic and foreign airline traffic in the country. He said: “Nigeria has been a great supporter of liberalisation and as a continued champion of liberalisation efforts in Africa through the implementation of the Yamoussoukro Decision (YD) and the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM), I wish to call on ICAO to continue to support the regional liberalisation efforts of states as they could be used as incentives to achieve global multilateral achievement on liberalization of market access. “I am happy to inform you that Nigeria’s effort of liberalisation has led to significant increase in the operations of foreign airlines utilisation so far our airports resulting in manual traffic growth of over 8 per cent.” The minister also expressed Nigeria’s belief that successes in technological advancement should be complemented with the modernisation of global regulatory frameworks. He further relayed the country’s resolve to be a hub stating that the country was enacting new strategies to make air transportation safer, more secure, more efficient and more environmentally-friendly as well as ensure the growth and sustainability of aviation industry globally. He explained that with 200 million people and 923 766 sq km of land mass, the government’s resolve was to make Nigeria the hub of West and Central Africa region by making  air travel the preferred mode of transportation. He however said that the government was aware that to achieve the status would require a robust industry that was safe and secure. “In the area of safety, Nigeria in the last three years has continued to work towards sustaining the successes achieved ICAO universal safety oversight programme and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) International aviation safety assessment Category One rating through strengthening of the Nigeria civil aviation authority to keep regulating aviation safety without political interference,” he added.