ABUJA – The Minister of Sci­ence and Technol­ogy, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu yesterday dis­closed that Nigeria’s leath­er industry generates reve­nue for the country worth over $800 million annually. Onu, who made the dis­closure at the National Leather and Leather Prod­ucts Policy Implementa­tion Validation Workshop in Abuja, underscored the need for implementation of National Leather and Leather Product Policy to boost leather production as a major source of revenue for the country. Onu, represented by Minister of state for Sci­ence and Technology, Mo­hammed Abdullahi said the global market size of leath­er is about $20 billion trad­ed annually and with lots of opportunities abound Therefore, he charged stakeholders in the leather and leather products indus­try, to ensure all hands are on deck for the success of the Leather policy and in the long-run ensure Nige­ria benefits from the enor­mous potential. The leather industry, according to him, is stra­tegic in the development of Nigeria’s economy, due to substantial export earn­ings and value and the enormous employment opportunities it provides. He said Leather has the potential of success­fully increasing Nigeria’s foreign earnings, adding that there was the need for value addition in Nigeria’s leather value chain. He tasked leather indus­try stakeholders to initi­ate visionary and creative strategies, which would fast-track Nigeria’s move from a resource based to a knowledge based and inno­vation driven economy. In his words, “This will help Nigeria fast-track the process that will enable it become self-reliant in indig­enous technology capacity”. Earlier, Dr. Eucharia Opar­ah, the Acting Director Gen­eral of Nigerian Institute of Leather and Science Technol­ogy (NILEST) said the work­shop provided opportunity for major key players to interact, cross fertilize ideas and ex­change information that will contribute to the growth of leather sector in the country. In furtherance, the Sen­ate Committee chairman on Science and Technology, Uche Ekwunife, said the workshop was organised to take the leather industry in the country to a greater height.