 Contrary to the general notion that women are the major victims of domestic abuse and violence, it has now been revealed that more men suffer such abuse than women. Disclosing this information was Professor Basirat Olushola Oladipupo while delivering the 71st inaugural lecture of the Lagos State University (LASU) titled: “Goodie Bag Of Health Problems: Health Educator The Town Crier” on Tuesday at the Ojo campus of the institution. The professor of Health Education disclosed that recent researches had revealed that though more men suffer emotional and psychological trauma born of domestic abuse from their wives, such men have always kept mute about their experiences simply because of their chauvinistic ego. The latest addition to the lofty ladder of academia empathised that the noise of domestic abuse and violence had been unduly loud in favour of women whereas many more men are actually going through untold hell at home in the hands of their spouses. She noted also that the rate of suicide has kept rising as a result of such domestic abuse and other social, environmental factors. She further enlightened the audience that ordinarily a goodie bag connotes a pack of good things but the problems enumerated are the accompanying adulterations that must be sifted off. “All these problems are continually present in our population, which means many things have to be done to eradicate the problems. “Government and stakeholders in the health sector should improve human health and protecting it from environmental hazards. “They should also initiate and implement health hygiene, sanitation and environmental programmes to promote understanding of environmental health principles,” Oladipupo urged. According to Oladipupo, school health education programme can contribute effectively to the good health of children and by extension, the nation. She, therefore, urged health educators to keep creating wide awareness towards minimising health-related problems. This, according to her, will be fulfilling the “Town Crier’ function of health educators in society. The sharp-talking academic Amazon also posited that it was essential for children to receive a good diet to ensure that they grow and develop normally even as she disclosed that research supports that children perform better in schools and learn better, when well-nourished. She said that many factors could influence the decision by adolescents on when, whether and how to engage in sexual relationships or activity. Oladipupo said that some of these factors include: self-image, religious inclinations, socioeconomic background, media, family values, peer influence, among others. “Globally, adolescents are becoming more socially and sexually sensitive, mature and active much earlier than parents and other adults around them. “Adolescent boys and girls are confronted with numerous adjustment problems that are peculiar to their age group, owing to the demand of parents, schools and society at large. “They are faced with social and emotional problems, ranging from health and physical development to courtship, sex, and marriage,” she noted.