Barrister Okoli Akirika, Chairman Anambra State Chapter of Atiku / Obi Campaign Organization Publicity Committee, in this interview with PERCY ONYEJEKWE, speaks on the debate over zoning in Anambra ahead of the 2023, Atiku’s decision to approach Supreme Court and other issues. Excerpts What can you say in favour or against the issue of zoning as a political arrangement for the 2023 presidential election in Nigeria and the 2021 Anambra State Governorship election ? The truth is that there is no way we can wish away the issue of zoning. Zoning is one with politics. Once you have a political structure, you must look at the various components of that structure that make up the entity. So we can’t pretend to wish away or toy with zoning. More so , if you look at the various constitutional arrangements you will see an implicit zoning arrangement . Nigeria is divided into North and South with six geo-political zones. Conventionally every state, no matter its size and resources, has three senatorial zones. So, you can see that contextually, zoning is an inherent arrangement in Nigeria political structure. Coming down to Anambra State, if you look at the various opinions of people it is without doubt that, for purpose of 2021 election, Anambra South Senatorial zone should be allowed to produce the governorship candidate. Some months ago the Anglican Bishop of Aguata, was very unequivocal, unapologetic, certain and unambiguous that in the interest of equity, fairness and peaceful coexistence, Anambra South should be allowed to produce the next governor of the state. Interestingly, since ever he made that comment, there has not been any dissenting comment either within the Anglican Church , Catholic Church or Pentecostal. So, one can say that there is what I may call a consensual ecumenical endorsement of the concept that that the gubernatorial election for 2021shall be Anambra South affair. Moving away from the church, some days ago the former minister for labor, Dr Chris Ngige, that in the interest o9f equity the next governor should come from Anambra South. And since ever he said that, there has never been any dissenting view from the APC leadership. Before then the National Chairman of APGA, Dr.Victor Oye was very emphatic when he said that Anambra South shall produce the next governor of the state. So if you look at the apolitical comments of the Bishop of Aguata and the view of the APC leader, Ngige, and the view expressed by their National Chairman of APGA , Dr Victor Oye, you can that there is a consensus ad idem from the Church, APC, APGA that Anambra South should produce the next governor of Anambra State . It is now left for the leadership of the PDP to consider all this statements , to consider the realities on ground to make sure that the party does not swim against the political tide because the ecumenical cannot endorse a view, APGA cannot endorse a view , APC cannot endorse a view and the PDP will endorse a view that is contrary to all this established views. Considering the views expressed , it shall be fair, just for PDP to do what is popularly accepted in Anambra State. The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal affirmed President Muhhamadu Buhari winner of the 2019 presidential election, what led to PDP’s loss at the tribunal? Firstly, the main reason Atiku went to the tribunal is for the overall interest of Nigerians. Now that he has gone to the tribunal Nigerians have come to realiSe the the ways the court interprets various sections of the electoral Act especially Section 31 dealing with pre-qualification to conduct election, the issue forgery and proof of electoral malpractice. So we should not concern ourselves with the mere outcome of the judgment delivered by the Election Petition Tribunal, rather we should concern ourselves with what the nation would benefit as an outcome , as a concomitant of Atiku and PDP taking the matter to the Tribunal. The court interpreted section 31 of the Electoral Act and came to the conclusion that when somebody swears the affidavit it is taken that the person has fulfilled all constitutional requirements, that there is no need for that person to go further to attach qualifying or supporting document. You saw the way Nigerians reacted to it. Does it mean that a mere oral deposition in an affidavit will take over certain constitutional requirements. There is no doubt that sections 133 and 137 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) deal with qualifications and disqualifications of persons to contest for Nigerian presidency. Do you have to show that you a member of a political party orally. Do you have to show that you attained school certificate level orally Do you have to show that you were born at a particular date orally. These are matters that require proper documentation. So that is where and why the ruling of that Tribunal, with all due respect, is deficient and deficit in many material manner. Sections 31,87 of the Electoral Act vis-a-vis sections 131 and 137 of the Constitution show beyond doubt that there is need for proper documentation. Let me take the issue of forgery, for instance ,how do you proof forgery in the absence of document? So, the court are expected to go beyond literal interpretation and adopt a proactive and purposeful interpretation of the law so as to meet the intent of the makers of the law. The PDP appeared to pick holes in the Tribunal’s judgment on the 2019 presidential election. What was the composition of the Presidential Electoral Petitions tribunal? Where and why are you not really satisfied with the judgment. ? Many people are now beginning to raise eyebrows as to the way and manner the court of appeal was composed. Problem started when His Lordship Justice Zainab Adamu Bulkachuwa, President of the court of Appeal wanted to preside. Then it started with the presence of the president of court of Appeal coming to preside over the tribunal when Aboki commenced the interrogatory application. Aboki took the interrogatory application of the tribunal. As the chairman, when he finished the President wanted to take over.. That caused so much disaffection and suspicion which at the end of the day led to President of the Appeal Court excluding herself. So let us avoid a repeat of that issue.Now that some Justices have been accused of paying Sallah visit to the presidency and some of them are being elevated to the Supreme Court what the CJN, Tanko Muhhamed should do is remove these two classes of from participation , and select only a panel of judges based on seniority. That is the only way to assure Nigerians of independence and impartiality of Nigerian judiciary. Again if you look at the fact that the panel that delivered that judgement. Five of them delivered that judgement on a Wednesday.. By Friday the upper week, which is barely less than nine days , 3 out of the 5 Justices, were penciled down for elevation to Supreme Court In some quarters some people were alleging that, that was an inducement. In other quarters some were saying they qualified. Whether their elevation was an inducement or whether they merited elevation people are beginning to question that.