Joseph Attah, the National Public Relations Offcer of Nigeria Customs Service and spokesman for the joint operations by Nigeria security forces at the country’s borders code named ‘Exercise Swift Response’, spoke to journalists recently in Lagos, on how the operation is directed at addressing security concerns like banditry smuggling, illegal migration and other vices, which is contrary to some thinking that Benin Republic is target for the exercise. ANDREW UTULU was there. Excerpts: Could you please tell us what is going on at the borders; we heard about closure? Closure is not the right word to use here. There is indeed intensive patrol by joint security forces that is ongoing along our border routes with particular reference to unapproved routes which smugglers are taking advantage of, preventing proliferation of weapons and checking movements of illegal migrants who attempt coming in to the disadvantage of our national security and economy. Like we said earlier, It is being coordinated by Office of National Security Adviser (ONSA) .That is a brief about what is ongoing. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network How long is this supposed to last? It will go on for some days. By the time we have gotten our acts together and the reason for the exercise is achieved, it will be called off. Anyone who lives in Nigeria or follows our affairs will know that in recent times there have been cases of insurgency, increase in kidnapping, increase in use and abuse of controlled drugs, smuggling of weapons which contributes to general insecurity. Every responsible government will put its muscles together to address these issues for citizens’ benefits and ensure that the safety and economic well being of the country are preserved How many agencies and how many men are part of this operation? The Nigeria Customs Service, Nigeria Immigration Service in collaboration with the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) , intelligence agencies and Nigeria Police are pulling human and material resources together for the joint exercise to police our borders. We have recorded some success barely one week into the exercise started. I can confirm to you that 33 illegal migrants have been arrested , 59 bags of NPK fertilizers intercepted (I hope you know NPK fertilizers are used to make improvised explosive devices),  over 3000 bags of rice, petroleum products and other items have been stopped from coming into the country and seized. Its been largely successful and we will keep ensuring that those whose acts and movements are unlawful around our borders are brought to their knees. There has been this complain that there was no earlier information before the exercise started, and that some of them who had perishable goods have to suffer losses. How would you react to this? We cannot be talking about perishable goods when national security is at stake. We did alert the public. It may not be as long as those traders would have wanted and we issued a press statement announcing commencement of the exercise. Criminals and anyone doing unlawful activities would have loved to have long notice and go into hiding before the operation. The idea behind our short notice is to catch them unawares and red handed. Do you have manpower strength and technology to man the illegal routes? The fact that managers of national security thought it necessary to pull manpower and resources together for this exercise should tell you about the importance government attach to the country’s security and citizens well being. Beyond the physical patrol, there are efforts to acquire non intrusive equipment. Every necessary action to achieve improved security is being taken. We heard Benin Republic is crying that the operation is affecting their economy. Don’t you think this can hinder trade between both countries and affect our relationship? For some reasons, it appears that some persons are making too much reference to a particular country. For the avoidance of doubt, this exercise is not targeted at any country. The targets are those who take advantage of our porous borders to perpetuate illegal acts. As we speak, the exercise is not only in the South West. It is going on in the South South, North West and North Central geo political regions of the country. These zones have borders with other countries. It’s not solely about Seme or Benin Republic. It is about anything that will negatively affect the security and safety of Nigerians and the country as a whole. Any country that transacts business with Nigeria and keeps to the rules should have nothing to worry about. Do you think we have security men at the borders who will keep to the rules too? I have discovered that the escapist tendency of any critic is to talk about corruption. Who is corrupt? Who is corrupting who and for what reasons? If you are an international trader and you are importing legitimate things through the approved channels and paying appropriate duties to government, why should you worry? If any law enforcement officer attempts to take you beyond the lawful aspects of trans- border transactions, you have a right to raise he alarm. If for instance, you import a hundred units of an item and declare 30 trying not to pay for 70 units, which is an illegality on its own. As a service,  I can tell you that customs under our Controller General never spare any officer found compromising. I am sure you are aware that some officers have been dismissed for compromising their positions or conniving with economic saboteurs against national interest. Some of them might not be directly involved in the act of smuggling but maybe in the course of carrying out examination on import or export cargoes, they did not do due diligence. I think the important message being passed here is that the security forces of this country see themselves as one fighting a common cause. Our difference in uniform does not inhibit our togetherness in fighting criminals and criminality. We are working jointly as a team and in the interest of the country. Clearly explain aside from security , what are we achieving in the long run from all of this? It is the desire of the Federal Government and Mr. President that we achieve self sufficiency in food production with local industries adequately protected to grow . Nigeria is blessed with arable land and vast human resources to grow the food we need. This operation supports that drive. We should do less, and if possible, none of food importation into this country. If we continue to rely on foreign rice that we don’t even know how long it’s been harvested and kept in silos before shipping; what are we saying to Nigerian rice farmers? Are we saying they should pack and go away? Our local rice are more nutritious. The more we patronise them , the more we support that aspect of our local industry to grow and providing job opportunities for our teeming youth population Before this time, you have been seizing rice but they kept coming? Visit our warehouses and see the tonnes and tonnes of rice in our custody. It shows that smugglers are unrelenting. They are using neighbouring countries to bring in what we don’t want into our country. To that, we are saying NO. The other issue boils down on borders all over the country, and what has been their response so far to the seizure of rice from the unapproved votes? You mean the activities of Customs as regards rice seizure? Look, if you are talking about the challenges of our anti-smuggling operations and you want to know what particular product remains most challenging across the land borders, rice will certainly be the number one and vehicle will probably take the second position. That is not to say that other prohibited items , one way or the other, may not be part of their shortlist of the economic saboteurs. We have remained resolute in our fight against rice smugglers this is because as Nigerians we believe that this country is blessed with arable land with enough manpower to be able to farm rice that will feed the populace and even export outside. I mean we should not continue to feed ourselves with food produced by other countries. Do not forget the fact that each time you buy a foreign product, each time you consume foreign rice, you are empowering that country to produce more and making yourself dependent on their ability to feed you. The health implications of some of these rice calls for question. Like I told you, Customs officers are Nigerians like every other nationals, we have family members also who will eat this rice most of these rice that are being brought into this country are those that have overstayed their shelf life in the producing countries. They just export them to us and they turn us into a dumping ground for all sorts of rice. They are brought in awesome ways. Our experience as Customs officers have shown that not only that these smugglers are depriving government of needed revenue, not only that they are taking away jobs from our people, they apply diabolic ways to smuggle the rice into Nigeria. I use the word ‘diabolic’ because we have situations where rice was smuggled in coffins, caskets that are used for dead bodies. We also have situations where rice were brought in  spare Tyre compartments. We have seen situations where rice were brought in fuel tankers with all sorts of contamination These people do not care about the lives of Nigerians, all they care about is the profit they will make, they are enemies of the state and we urge all Nigerians to see them as such and provide the needed support for us by way of giving us credible information that will up our game. The fight against rice smugglers is total and unrelenting and I tell you what, we are receiving unprecedented support from the federal government to remain resolute and even stronger against rice smugglers. Recently, we have issued out 50 brand new patrol vehicles, and we’ve had approval for the purchase of another 68 in addition to 70 that is already being purchased for the joint rice task force that’s making an unprecedented total of 188 vehicles within a record time. So, we are receiving a robust federal government support, with this our ability to respond to the scene of crime, our ability to respond to arrive at a place where smuggling activities is about to take place will be swift and decisive. There is this stories that talk about drone, how true is it? Yeah, you see we continue to look at various ways of raising the stake of fight against rice smugglers we are collaborating with the Nigerian Airforce and you know that recently they lunched their drone the ones. We are collaborating and looking at ways where we can leverage on their expertise for aerial surveillance, so those are the new ideas and new strategies that are being brought in to the anti-smuggling operations to give us information that ordinarily would have eluded the usual ground patrol that we do. Is the Customs management satisfied with the level of seizures of this concealment or formations? It’s usually said that the road to success is always under construction, satisfied? Yes. Is it enough?  No, we will continue to make these seizure as long as we feel that there is a need to continue we feel that this smuggling thing is happening we will not be satisfied, I mean the fight continues. The question is, how we can be satisfied when the smugglers are not retired, as long as there are smugglers, as long as there are activities that can compromise the economy and security of this country, Customs officers are paid to fight such activities. Are there plans by the management to go round  most of the border Commands where these things are being smuggled in to educate them on the effect of smuggling? Educate who now? you mean the border community dwellers and the villagers?  Yes. You see the issue of stakeholders’ engagement is a continuous one.  We urge media houses to join in the collaborating effort to save guard the economy and security well-being of this country. We have several outlets to reach our stakeholders, especially the border community dwellers you know we have this programme on NTA Customs duty every Monday 8:30 – 9:00pm, we have another programme on FRCN in Hausa, we have another programme on Armed Forces Radio . Controller General of Customs has reemphasised and directed that the Customs Community Consultative Forum should be reorganised and supported in such a way that there is a routine interface between Customs Commands, Customs Stations and the immediate border community dwellers, because one of the major ways that we lost against smugglers is traceable to information’s that these smugglers get especially from those who live around the border areas. We are aware that some smugglers, these days, buy handsets and give to some people ostensibly to provide information about the movement of our ground patrol operatives. When our people are going left, such informants call smugglers to say look they are going left, when you are coming pass through right and burst out in this village and go. And when people see such smugglers in the town, you hear people saying ‘where were Customs officers when these smugglers passed through the borders?’ Customs is not omnipresent, so we need the support of these border community dwellers especially; we need the support of everybody for us to do even better.