Dr. Bimbola Ogunkelu, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former minister of Cooperation and Integration in Africa spoke to JOY ANIGBOGU about the reconciliation committee saddled with the responsibility of building the party in Lagos State, the need to restructure the country and other topical issues. Excerpts: You are chairman of a reconciliation committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State. What is the main responsibility of this committee? I am the chairman of the reconciliation committee of PDP in Lagos State. There was a fact-finding committee headed by Senator Ben Obi. It was at the second meeting of that committee that it was decided that there would be a reconciliation committee. We have since started work and have made a lot of progress. Can you say how much progress your committee has been able to make because there is insinuation especially from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) that your party no longer exist in Lagos State? It is the wishful thinking of APC that PDP is dead in the state. The PDP is alive and vibrant in the State, the committee meets every Wednesday and we invite leaders and elders of the party and some office holders of the party in the state. At the reconciliation meeting, we all agreed that there is no more division in the party. When we say “PDP”, members would respond, “100 per cent”, and when we say “100 per cent”, the response is “PDP”, that is the new slogan of the party in the State. We know that there could be few elements that are not fully engaged but you know that reconciliation is not a one-day job. Every local government is represented and representatives would devolve to the wards, so that reconciliation gets to grassroots. The result has been encouraging. Do you think that at 59, Nigerians have any cause to celebrate the Independence anniversary of the country, considering the state of the nation? I think we should celebrate Nigeria, we must admit we have problems but problems are not reasons why we should not celebrate. We should celebrate life. We should celebrate Nigeria after the civil war, in spite of all the problems, we are still one country. We look forward to programmes that would bring the people closer. When we watch Nigeria playing another country during a football match, and everyone would be supporting our dear country. All effort must be made to ensure that grey areas of disagreement are handled and sorted out. We must ensure that there is proper democracy in Nigeria, elections must count and it is only when we do that should we build the confidence of the citizens. It was discovered just recently that about 300 children were chained in a camp in Kaduna State, while shallow graves where kidnappers buried their victims were also discovered in Benue State. What can you say about that? In Kaduna State, there is a government that should attend to issue of security of its people. Where government is not up to date with its responsibility, it should be called out. Where Nigerian children, the future of the country are abused and chained is not good at all. Federal government must do something so that we don’t have a recurrence of this. We know that there is a lot of insecurity in the country and that is where government at all levels must arise and protect the citizens. The first duty of the government is to protect lives and property of the citizens, as well as the territorial integrity of the country. Where there is this kind of abuse citizens should cry out loud and hold government accountable and responsible. The APC has accused your party of being responsible for the posters of its leaders campaigning for 2023 presidency. What can you say about that allegation? It is not possible and they know it. They have just alleged that our party is no longer functional in Lagos State, the same party they accused of making posters and displaying them. I think the leaders of APC are ashamed of the actions of their members. They are not truthful people. They always want to blame someone else for their problems. They got to power in 2015 and all they talk about is fighting corruption. We all know that corruption is worse now than ever before. Instead of facing governance, they blame other people, all they do is blame game. They are blaming other people for their own activities. What can you say about the running battle between the vice president, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo and Comrade Timi Frank, former national publicity secretary of APC, on alleged mismanagement of N90 billion fund for election purpose? These are controversies that one shouldn’t get involved in because of allegation that money was spent and was not spent. Let them go to court and be attested in court. You also know that a lot is hidden which is not known to the public and if Timi Frank that presented the issue said that he would meet them in court when they threatened to sue him, so let them take him to court if it is not true. What is your view about this issue of 2023 when your party is still in court fighting out the 2019 presidential election? PDP can’t be talking of 2023 when the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT) has given a judgment that is not acceptable to us as a party. We are now in Supreme Court, and so PDP is not talking about 2023. The APC that is talking about 2023 is only jumping the gun. If the Supreme Court reviews judgment of Presidential Tribunal and finds that it is inappropriate, PDP would come to power. It is because we know that we have supportable case, we have evidence that we have adduced in court. Presidential Election PetitionTribunal has used technicalities, waved a lot of things, so let us go to Supreme Court. As a matter of fact, Nigeria judiciary is really on trial, how the judges and the Supreme Court deal with this will tell us whether the judiciary is the last hope of the common man or not. How far has your party been able to resolve the issue of minority leader at the lower chamber of National Assembly? There are so much working going on underground and when they are done they would announce it. There is no party where you don’t have disagreements. In 2015, APC wanted to have very much, the president of the Senate as well as speakership of the House of Representatives and because of that they were in court, charged Bukola Saraki to court and eventually they failed. It is part of the democratic process. What is the way forward for Nigeria as a country because some people believe there is nothing to hope for any more? There is hope for Nigerians. The last thing anyone would do is to lose hope. The problem of Nigeria up till this point is problem of leadership. Nigerian citizens are crying out for good leadership. At independence, we had a true democracy, some of us who have grown up at that time voted for election of 1959 and there was true democracy and later there was military incursion. In 1962 we had presidential system and 1966 there was military incursion. What has happened in Nigeria is that, a federal system became more or less a unitary system. At independence, there were there federating regions, the North, the West and the East, and by 1962 and 1963, the Mid- West was created and we had four regions. During the coup, the military took over and by the next year, there was secession by Biafra. The military created 12 States, later 19 States and then 36 States. Creation of States has not been done democratically by Nigerian citizens in a referendum, only done by military fiat and today, the structure that the military had was direct command and control system. A lot of responsibilities that should be shared by federal and state have been taken over by federal. The States then, were generating funds, retain 50 per cent of the revenue generated and remit 50 per cent to the center but today, a state that produces oil, all it gets is 13 percent derivation. The revenue in the centre would be shared in line with the sharing formular, which would include population, even land mass would be used to share Nigeria revenue. Nigeria is the only federation in the world that uses land mass to share revenue. We all know where the revenue of Nigeria comes from and we also know that land mass, empty space take money. We need to go back to true federalism, go back to fiscal federalism, we need to restructure Nigeria, and until Nigeria is restructured, there would be no peace and all Nigerians must get together, which are the federating units. Some are saying six, others are saying eight federating units but the states will continue to exist, even though some people are still asking for additional states. In Lagos State, officially, there are 20 local Government Areas (LGAs), whereas the government of Lagos created additional 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs). Kano and Lagos used to have the same number of LGAs and Kano now has 44 LGAs. Jigawa was created out of Kano and it has 27 LGAs and so Kano alone has 71 LGAs while Lagos has only 20. We must address the arrangements of living together.