ASABA – Stakeholders at the 18th Joint Planning Board (JPB) and the National Council on Development Planning (NCDP) have emphasised the need for states in the country to vigorously pursue fiscal sustainability and economic diversification through responsible governance. At the three-day summit with the theme, “State Fiscal Sustainability and Economic Diversification in Nigeria,” which began Wednesday in Asaba, Delta State, agencies maintained that it is only through promotion of domestic investment, engagement of the organised private sector, widening of the tax space and monitoring and evaluation of projects that economic growth could be sustained. They urged states of the federation to block all areas of financial leakages, uncontrolled finances and boost agricultural sector. Addressing delegates at the meeting, the Federal Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Budget and Planning, Mr. Ernest Umakhihe, said many states were lagging behind in revenue generation, correctional services, continuity and maintenance of projects in an overpopulated environment but thrive in uncontrolled expenditure. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network While he called on governments at all levels to start planning for the future of their states through ‘fiscal sustainability and economic diversification’, especially in agriculture and establishment of cottage industries, the lead discussant, Prof. Ndem Ayara of the Faculty of Science and Fiscal Responsibility, Calabar, attributed fiscal challenges at state level to poor rate of Internal Revenue generated by state governments. Ayara said, “Many states of the federation are planning against the tide by excluding the organised private sector but appointing hundreds of Special Advisers, Special Assistats and Senior Special Assistants.” He lamented that development partners have started packing out of many states and Nigeria at large, owing to poor budgetary provision, unrealistic economic diversification and fiscal irresponsibility. He stated that the over-reliance of state government on federal allocation has become visible through the economic meltdown of the country, stating that most state governments were facing fiscal crisis and trying to cover it up. “We can see that the meltdown at national level is beginning to flow down. States that generate more internal revenue are not states that collect the highest revenue,” he asserted. Barr. Chiedu Ebie, Secretary to the Delta State Government, described the theme as apt, considering the trajectory in the economic landscape among states. He hoped the recommendations in the course of the programme would provide guidelines for improving the economic fortunes of the nation.