LAGOS – The Nigerian government and the military have consistently maintained in the last two years that the Boko Haram sect has been technically defeated, despite continuous attacks on villages and communities, especially in the North-Eastern part of the country by the deadly group. Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari, said in July that the real Boko Haram we know is defeated. Shehu claimed: “The position of the Nigerian government is that the Boko Haram terrorism has been degraded and defeated. The real Boko Haram we know is defeated. “At the moment, the Nigerian government under President Muhammadu Buhari has made the country safer than it met it. “In 2015, when he took power, Boko Haram terrorism was active in nearly half the number of states in the country. “They controlled a territory the size of Belgium, with a flag and systems of administration and taxation of their own. “Emirs and chiefs had fled their domains along with hundreds of thousands of ordinary citizens. Such is no more; they have been taken from them.” It was, however, a shocker, when Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), on Monday, said that terrorism and terrorist groups could not be eliminated alone by the military unless religious bodies and organisations in the country come to the forefront of what he described as a “spiritual battle”. Buratai, who made this disclosure at a spiritual warfare seminar at the Nigerian Army Resource Centre in Abuja, with the theme, “Countering insurgency and violent extremism in Nigeria through spiritual warfare”, noted that the focus must be religious groups interfacing on addressing the ideologies, which fuelled the Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists. Buratai, who was represented at the event by the Chief of Administration, Maj. Gen. Sani Yusuf, urged Islamic and Christian clerics across the Army formations to join the fight against terrorism, and reorient the people against negative ideologies. His words: “It is easier to defeat Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists than their ideology because, while we degrade the terrorists and their havens, the narrative of the ideology grows the group. “Therefore, communities, families, and groups should join in the fight and narratives to reject and prevent the ideologies of the terrorists and extremist groups. “Religious bodies and organisations in particular who interface regularly with the grassroots should be at the forefront of this spiritual battle and fashion out ways of stepping up their roles. “The fight against terrorism, Boko Haram and ISWAP, as well as other security threats, cannot be left to the troops in the battle field alone. “Yes, we will do our duties, but the need to tackle groups through spiritual warfare and re-orientating the followers against the ideology is also a necessity. “It is a well-known fact that terrorism and terrorist groups cannot be totally eliminated by mainly military actions. “This means focusing our efforts on the underlying narratives through ideologies that are employed by these terrorists to lure innocent citizens to their fold. “The need to defeat the ideologies of Boko Haram and ISWAP is based on the awareness that it is the ideologies that enhance their resources and help to recruit new fighters to their fold and as such; kill their ideology and the terrorist movement withers and dies. “Religious leaders and clerics who regularly interface with members of the society must fashion out ways of stepping up their roles, remembering that the fight against terrorism is a collective responsibility,” he added. However, Nigerians have continued to react to the statement from the Army chief, with many criticising him for making such a statement. In his reaction, Debo Adeniran, the Executive Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), noted that Buratai’s recommendation was ridiculous. Adeniran, who wondered why the Army chief would recommend a “fetish approach to prosecuting a physical war”, pointed out that Buratai’s statement was an admission that he no longer had anything to offer and should be replaced by the President. According to the CACOL boss, “I think that this Buratai of a soldier does not know his onions; he had made a couple of laughable recommendations in the past and all he is doing is like groping in the dark. “He doesn’t seem to know the technicalities of prosecuting such a war by the sheer ignorance he has been displaying and the trial-and-error strategy that he is adopting has led to Nigeria losing many brilliant and agile soldiers who could have otherwise been very useful in prosecuting sensible wars. “But because of the carelessness of the leaders, we have lost many of them; as well as the fact that several trillions of naira has been pumped into prosecuting that war. “I will join the school of thought that has asked the President to waste no further time in looking for a more brilliant and technically-savvy warrior that can prosecute the war that is going on in the North-East; otherwise, we will be losing our future to carelessness and that will not do Nigeria any good.” The Christian Association of Nigeria on its part, called for the sack of the Buratai, maintaining that the handling of the security challenges in the country has been everything, but satisfactory. Adebayo Oladeji, the Special Assistant (Media and Communications) to the President of CAN, Samson Ayokunle, said, “CAN has been consistently calling on President Muhammadu Buhari, the Commander-in-Chief, to overhaul the security system and replace the service chiefs. “As far as we are concerned, the handling of the security challenges in the country has been everything, but satisfactory. We have also told the President to overhaul the National Security Council with a view to injecting new blood with a new vision and to address the lopsided appointments of the NSC.” A civic rights lawyer, Emmanuel Ugochukwu, in an opinion article on Tuesday, said the statement of the Army chief never in anyway suggested using spiritualism to fight insurgency in the war front. “Rather The Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, called on religious leaders to support the Nigerian Army in eradicating ideologies fueling insurgency in the country. “Now, if not for mischief, how does the headline justify the goal of the seminar organized by the Nigerian Army yesterday? How does the entire speech of the Army Chief amount to seeking prayers to fight a physical war as portrayed by the PUNCH? “What the Army Chief stated clearly was that aside eliminating the insurgents in the battlefield, their ideologies must also be killed spiritually. Ideology is not a physical realm, it is a thought process and you do not kill ideas or ideology by physical war,” part of the article read. Ugochukwu maintained that the news was an attempt to portray the Army Chief as suggesting the use of spiritualism in the actual battle field and thus try to tarnish his image. Though, President Buhari, in his Independence message to Nigerians, admitted that good governance and economic development cannot be sustained without an enabling environment of peace and security. The president explained that in the last four years, “we have combatted the terrorist scourge of Boko Haram. We owe a debt of gratitude to our gallant men and women in arms, through whose efforts we have been able to achieve the present results. We are also grateful to our neighbours and allies – within the region and across the world – who have supported us on this front. “The capacity of our armed forces to defend our territorial integrity continues to be enhanced by the acquisition of military hardware as well as continued improvements in the working conditions of our service men and women. “The Ministry of Police Affairs has been resuscitated to oversee the development and implementation of strategies to enhance internal security. My recent assent to the Nigerian Police Trust Fund (Establishment) Act has created a legal framework to support our Police with increased fiscal resources to enhance their law enforcement capabilities. “These initiatives are being complemented by the ongoing recruitment of 10,000 constables into the Nigeria Police Force. This clearly demonstrates our commitment to arrest the incidence of armed robbery, kidnapping and other violent crimes across our nation,” Buhari said. There is a Biblical quote that “Heavens help those who help themselves”, in fighting insurgency, there is no amount of prayers that would bring an end to the menace if the needful is not done.