The 17th International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) World Championships will end today in Doha, Qatar. While tiny Gulf Kingdom of Bahrain celebrated winning the women’s 400m gold through a Nigerian athlete, Ebelechukwu Agbapuonwu , who has changed her name to Salwa Eid Naser, with the third all best all-time of 48.14secs – the fastest time in the world in 34 years, Nigeria her country of birth, is still searching for a medal of any colour in Doha. Agbapuonwu, born in Anambra State, and was the 2013 Schools Champion in Port Harcourt, is not the only Nigerian that has won medal for this gulf kingdom at the World Championships in Doha. Other athletes of Nigerian descent, who have switched nationalities are Edidiong Odiong, Precious Moses, now known as Moussa Ali Issa, Iman Isa Jassim, Basira Sharifa Nasir (Lolade Shodiya), and Aminat Yusuf Jamal. They now compete for Bahrain. Bahrain’s sprints coach, John Obeya, who also left Nigeria for the oil-rich Asian country in 2010 after the World Youth Championships in Italy, trains Naser, Abbas and Odiong. Odiong was one of the talented athletes discovered by the defunct Cross River Athletics Grassroots Development Initiative. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network She was regarded as a great asset for Nigeria in the women’s 400m and 4x400m events after representing the country at the 2014 IAAF World Junior Championships in Oregon. However, in 2015, she joined a growing list of Nigerian athletes who ditched their country for oil-rich Bahrain and have excelled representing their adopted nation. Naser and others are not the first Nigerian athletes to have dumped the country and changed nationality. The list is legion. Francis Obikwelu (Portugal), Gloria Alozie (Spain), Femi Ogunode (Qatar), Tosin Ogunode (Qatar), Abiodun Oyepitan (USA), Margaret Adeoye (UK), Anthony Alozie (Australia), Omo Osaghae (USA), Morolake Akinosun (Britain), Anyika Onuora (Britain), just to mention a few. Other sports are not left out. In basketball, football, weightlifting, wrestling, Nigerian athletes have sought refuge in other countries where their ‘bread will be buttered.’ For example, Akeem Olajuwon (USA), Giannis Antetokounmpo (Greece), Andre Iguodala among others, have switched their allegiance to other countries for one reason or the other. There seems to be no end in sight to Nigerian athletes switching nationalities—mostly due to financial strain, lack of opportunities, and living conditions back home. If there is one thing that is fundamentally wrong in the administration of Nigerian sports, it is the way our athletes are treated. The neglect is appalling. From poor welfare to neglect when injured by officials have always been cited as a reason by athletes why they switched nationalities. For example, Obikwelu switched nationalities in 2000 after Sydney Olympics after he was neglected by Nigerian sports officials when he was injured while representing the country in Sydney, Australia. Nigerian sprinter, Mercy Nku, said of his decision: “He had to go to Canada to undergo an operation on his knee spending his own money.” Even those Nigerians running for Bahrain cited neglect by government officials for reason why they decided to switch nationalities. Abass Abubakar, in an interview MoC and quoted by Punch online, decried inadequate support for Nigerian athletes as the reason why Nigerian athletes switched nationalities and urged the Nigerian government to protect them. He told MoC, “Running for another country is different, especially for Nigerians. There are a lot of things that made us change nationality. Running for Bahrain is something good for me. If I was still in Nigeria, maybe by now, I will no longer be running. “We could have made Nigeria proud too, but if we were in Nigeria, I don’t think we can reach this level. I don’t need to be telling you what is happening there. You already know. I think it is a big achievement that we are all Nigerians representing Bahrain and doing all these things. “This is to show that our people can do more, they don’t need to go and take people who are in other countries to represent Nigeria. We have our own best and do more. They only need support and good amenities for training. They should stop tribalism. Other countries also have different languages, but you can’t see them fight over being Yoruba, Hausa or Igbo. “We need support to make it together. When I was a Nigerian, nobody cared about me. Nobody looked after me. I know the condition that I was faced with; I know what is going on.” The worst aspect of this neglect is that athletes have been denied allowances approved for them at major championships. Several times, the athletes have had to protest or embarrass the country before what is due to them is made available. A good example is when Super Falcons players refused to quit South Africa after winning the CAF Women’s Championship until their allowances were paid in full. U-32 team also protested the non-payment of their allowances at the Rio Olympics in 2016. Several times, the Super Eagles have had to protest nonpayment of allowances. Dare Esan, Complete Sports Editor and an Athletics buff, said on Saturday in an interview that poor welfare was why Nigerian athletes switch nationality. “It’s basically about their welfare. They are not treated well, and also not recognised. “For example, no Nigerian athlete prior to the World Championships, was paid training grants. Those in school are left to fend for themselves. Nobody is talking to them. Nobody is asking them how they are faring. “No one is telling them don’t get yourselves burnt out because we will pay so and so amount,” he said. Commenting on the country’s not impressive performance in Doha, a former Technical Committee chairman of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Omatseye Nesiama, a retired Navy Commodore, said that funding was a problem. Nesiama also added that the problem of inadequate funding was complicated by government refusal to refund personal monies administrators source in order to administer the sport. According to him, most administrators were skeptical to drop funds to allow athletes participate in championships, as monies given in the past were not refunded, adding that such development reduced the zeal of administrators to want to work because they were afraid that their monies would not be refunded. He said that during his tenure as the Technical Director, Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), he raised N15 million to ensure athletics qualified for the 2015 African Games and 2016 Olympics. “I alongside my family committed the sum of N15 million for the purchase of tickets to qualify our team for the 2015 African Games and 2016 Olympics. “Solomon Dalung. who was the minister at that time, scrutinised everything and magnanimously approved the sum to be paid. Till date, a kobo hasn’t been paid. “With this kind of development, do you think sports administrators will be willing to commit and make such sacrifices after knowing about what we faced? “That is why I have taken a back seat,” he said. Even if the problem of athletes’ welfare is properly addressed, what of the facilities they need to train with. Available facilities are decrepit state. Sunday Dare, Sports Minister’s recent inspection of facilities is an eye opener to the state of facilities in the country. Though he promised to revamp them, when will this happen and for how long will athletes have to wait for. If the Federal Government as promised by the sports minister, resolves the problem descript facilities that dot the landscape, what of the problem of half-bake coaches? Nigerian athletes who improve their performance have done as the instance of foreign coaches, who understands the sport more than them. He believes that the way out is for stakeholders Nesiama believes that stakeholders meeting to ascertain where the problems emanate from were the way out. “I want to call on the new sports minister to call a stakeholders meeting on some of these issues to know where the problem is coming from. “A lot of people have made sacrifices in the past, they have been pushed away, the new ones on board know about what happened in the past and they find it difficult to make that commitment. “That is why we have found ourselves the way we are today and I hope that we will be able to get off the blocks,” he said. He also said that their efforts of raising such monies during their tenure yielded positively by putting the country on the continental and world map. “Our effort yielded some of the best results we’ve achieved at the World and African level. Winning the African Youth, Junior and Senior Championships at the same time. “Developmental programmes brought up the likes of Divine Oduduru, Tobi Amusan, Ese Brume, Usheoritse Itsekiri, Raymond Ekevwo and their likes,” he said. He also proposed that the AFN’s Technical Committee be well constituted, become more effective to ensure checks and balances, especially for processes leading to major competitions to avoid what happened in Doha. “The way forward to ensure that we don’t get disqualified in subsequent world championships is for the technical committee to be effective, well constituted and provide checks and balances. “I will talk from my experience, to me, the assembling of the team to the world championships was a bit faulty, there was no clear cut plan. “They were not aware of the number of athletes that will be able to make it until the last minute, probably due to miscellaneous reasons. “Based on that, they couldn’t meet the team to effectively decide on the entries,” he said.