Lagos – The National Assembly is set to review the Bilateral Air Services Agreements (BASA) arrangements Nigeria has with various countries. The Assembly said that this was necessary in order to address the increasing dominance of foreign airlines in Nigeria. Hon. Nnolim Nnaji, the Chairman, House Committee on Aviation stated this yesterday in Abuja. Nnaji insisted that the dominance of the country’s airspace by foreign carriers had left the indigenous airlines helpless, stressing that the nation needed to protect them. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network He explained that the House Committee on Aviation and Senate Committee on Aviation had resolved to address the challenge. At present, Nigeria has over 90 BASA arrangements with various countries with less than 20 per cent reciprocity. ‘’Our indigenous carriers can be protected from early collapse as has been observed,” he said. Nnaji also expressed concern about the single airport runway for the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja. He warned that in case of an accident or major incident on the runway, the airport would be shut against traffic until the aircraft is evacuated, stressing that the committee would work in synergy with the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and the Ministry of Aviation to address the situation. ‘’Permit me also to emphasise that the protracted second Abuja Airport runway is now overdue for actualisation because of the strategic importance of the airport as the gateway to the nation’s capital and seat of government. ‘’It is pertinent to point out that in the event that we witness an accident on the runway; the airport will be shut down to traffic, until accident investigators are done with their preliminary investigations. We shouldn’t wait for that to happen before we do the right thing. We will engage the Federal Ministry of Aviation and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to bring this to fruition,” he said. He added that the committee would collaborate with industry agencies to bequeath to Nigerians an industry that is safe, reliable and viable. He said that the Committee had the mandate to oversight the Federal Ministry of Aviation and its six agencies, which included FAAN, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, (NAMA), the Nigerian Meteorological Agency, (NIMET), the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) and the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) The aforementioned agencies operate dual budgets that included the statutory federal Budget, which is embedded in the Ministry’s Annual Budget Proposal and the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) budget, which are all supposed to be submitted to the committee annually for appropriation. Hon. Nnaji said beyond this, the Ministry was expected to forward to the Committee, an Aviation Development Master Plan (ADMP) yearly, which would form the policy frame work for the development of Nigerian aviation sector as a major hub for the continent of Africa, the creation of an enabling environment that would support local airlines to fly our flag globally; ensuring that the foreign airlines’ domination in the Nigerian aviation market was curtailed; the possibility of reviewing the multiple entry designations granted to some international airlines to protect the local industry and ensuring safe and quality service delivery by all agencies and organizations that operate in the industry.