ABUJA – The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, on Thursday said the federal government has decided to prioritise the construction of 47 roads in the country due to lack of funds. Fashola stated this at an interactive session with the House of Representatives Committee on Works in Abuja, saying that at the moment, there are a total of 524 roads projects going on across the country. He said while the Ministry has a total of N306 billion unpaid certificates, its budget for 2020 is estimated at N157 billion. Fashola explained that the implication is that Ministry does not have enough fund to clear the unpaid certificates, not to talk of undertaking new projects. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network According to him, government has decided to prioritise the construction of 47 roads and major bridges across the six geo-political zones. Fashola explained that government is giving priority to roads that lead to the ports, power installations and other roads that align with the economic policy objective of the present administration. “At the moment, 524 projects across the country are ongoing. We have unpaid certificates of N306 billion. There is no state in Nigeria where one project is not going on. We have covered everybody. But the question is can we complete them? “The budget ceiling for highway is 157 billion in 2020. That is the reality of our funding,” Fashola told lawmakers, whilst commending them for the thoughtfulness of the interactive session ahead of the budget defense exercise. Responding to statements recently credited to him that the federal government will not reimburse states that fix federal roads that traverse their states, the Minister explained that it was a directive from President Muhammadu Buhari. “This administration inherited a lot of claims that has been unsettled for years. The president just took a decision that we will try and settle what had been done during the tenure of his predecessors by states, but that state should focus on their own roads too, unless they wanted to intervene without claiming a refund. “These were written directives to Ministry and we circulated it. There is really no story about it, that’s what our employer has told us and we are bound to comply,” he stressed. The minister therefore appealed to politicians to avoid playing politics with private sector investments in the road sector as it is the only fallback mechanism the country has in the face of scarcity of resources.