LAGOS – Super Eagles coaches, player and officials of the Nigeria Football Federation will leave for Singapore today, venue of the international friendly against Brazil on Sunday. Speaking exclusively to DAILY INDEPENDENT on this, Oluwatoyin Ibitoye, media officer of the Super Eagles, also revealed that Ikechukwu Ezenwa, the Heartland of Owerri goalkeeper, will be the only player to join the train for Singapore later today. He revealed that after the weekend’s league matches in Europe, other players will fly to the venue of the match from their respective basis, noting that apart from some reported injuries, players expected to prosecute the game were in good condition. “We all will be leaving for Singapore on the night of October 9, which is Tuesday,” he revealed to DAILY INDEPENDENT. “No player except Ikechukwu Ezenwa will travel with us and all the persons scheduled for the match, apart from the players, will be leaving with us. “You know the players across Europe just played their league matches but they will join the team in Singapore. They are all expected latest Wednesday so that they will achieve cohesion before the match. “Players are in good shape except the injuries reported earlier of which the coach has made necessary changes,” he said. Brazil and Nigeria last met a couple of years back in Abuja and the Samba Boys defeated the three-time African champions 3-0. Meanwhile, Brazil will meet Senegal on Friday before squaring up against the Super Eagles Also Brazil players have arrived the Singapore camp ahead of their friendly match. As reported by Foxsports. com, several of the Selecao top stars including Paris Saint-Germain talisman Neymar arrived Singapore on Monday for the game. Neymar who was cheered by the Brazil fans in Kallang, also took time to sign autographs for his admirers. Neymar’s PSG teammate, Marquinhos has also arrived for the game, as well as the likes of Liverpool duo Roberto Firmino and Fabinho. Other early arrivals in the Brazil camp are Richarlison, Lucas Paqueta, Casemiro and Eder Militao. Several other top stars including Philippe Coutinho, Gabriel Jesus and Ederson are still being expected in camp