Arsenal midfielder Dani Ceballos missed Spain training on Wednesday due to a hamstring problem. The midfielder joined the Gunners on a season-long loan from Real Madrid in the summer and has already established himself as an important player in north London. Ceballos has featured in every Arsenal game this season – functioning as either a No 8 or No 10 – chipping in with one goal and two assists. Given his impressive early-season form, Ceballos was called up to the Spain squad ahead of their Euro 2020 qualifiers against Norway and Sweden. Powered by RubiQube Ad Network His progression with the national team suffered a setback, however, during training in the week. READ ALSO: Fikayo Tomori Explains Decision To Accept England Call-Up Ceballos could not complete the morning session on Wednesday due to muscular discomfort, according to AS. He had undergone an MRI scan on Tuesday which ruled out a serious injury but confirmed a hamstring overload. Otherwise, Arsenal headed into the international break with just four injury worries. Arsenal suffer injury worry early into international break in blow to Unai Emery Dani Ceballos Alexandre Lacazette is the main player of concern with an ankle injury that should keep him out until the end of October. Arsenal revealed that Lacazette had been “playing through this injury for several weeks” before taking time off. READ ALSO: Emery Reveals Abnormal Reason Why He Substituted Dani Ceballos Despite Scoreline Hanging He is making good progress and should be back, as planned, by the end of the month. Mesut Ozil has been left out of the last few matchday squads but remains fully fit. Arsenal suffer injury worry early into international break in blow to Unai Emery Arsenal frontman Alexandre Lacazette could return by the end of October (Image: Getty)
Emile Smith-Rowe is close to returning from his concussion episode sustained against Nottingham Forest two weeks ago. He has not featured in a matchday squad since but is expected to return after the international break. Konstantinos Mavropanos has had no luck with injuries since joining Arsenal in January 2018 but there is some light at the tunnel for the youngster. The centre-back has been playing regularly for the Under-23s in a bid to improve his fitness and could edge into a first-team squad soon. Elsewhere, Reiss Nelson pulled out of the England Under-21s squad with a knee injury. The decision was believed to be a precautionary measure but Nelson is set to sit out for two weeks at least.