Simon Ebegbulem is the Chief Press Secretary to the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. In this interview with journalists, he responded to some of the allegations leveled against his principal as regards the crisis in Edo state APC by Hon.Charles Idahosa. He also spoke on other issues in the state. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: A leader of the APC in Edo State, Hon. Charles Idahosa, in a recent interview, accused your boss, Comrade Oshiomhole, of being behind the problem in the crisis bedeviling Edo APC, how would you react to that? I actually read several comments he made, trying to paint Oshiomhole in the image of the devil. Ironically, he was Oshiomhole’s Political Adviser for eight years. So, I wonder how he worked so closely with Comrade all those years, if what he is saying today about Comrade is true. Like I told you earlier, I served for over 12 years as a reporter in Edo State, and I know these people. My boss in a recent interview explained very vividly the issues in Edo APC, so I don’t want to start repeating them. But, let me tell Hon. Idahosa, it will be laughable for him to think that Oshiomhole, as National Chairman of the APC, will keep a blind eye to happenings in Edo APC. He is known to be a winning machine and he will not want any issue that will create problem for the party in future. However, I was happy when Hon. Idahosa confirmed some of the issues my boss raised as regards the crisis in Edo APC; when he narrated how Governor Obaseki tried to frustrate him out of the party, but that Oshiomhole waded in and stopped him from leaving the APC. So, you should ask him at what point did he now become the governor’s spokesman?. He is always speaking from the two sides of his mouth, and that is why the APC leaders in his local government, Uhumwonde, described him as a political jobber. The same Idahosa earlier in the administration of Governor Obaseki advised the governor to embark on ethnic politics, so as to undo Oshiomhole, but he found out that Oshiomhole is more Benin than himself, because he has done more for the Binis than any Bini governor. The same man who is preaching Bini agenda, is the same person who is protesting the emergence of the former Deputy Governor, Dr Pius Odubu as chairman-designate of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC); the first time such a position will be coming to Edo State, and Edo South for that matter. To him, is that not sacrilegious? The same manner he blamed Oshiomhole for the emergence of Chief Victor Ekhator as Edo State representative in the board of NDDC. Is Chief Ekhator an Afemai man? As a matter of fact, Chief Ekhator is one of Omo N’Oba’s Enobore. The function of Enobore chiefs in the palace system is that they are the two chiefs that hold the Omo N’Oba’s arms when the Oba is in full traditional regalia. Is Hon. Idahosa not supposed to be happy as a Benin man, over the emergence of Odubu and Chief Ekhator, rather than querying who was instrumental to their emergence? Benin interest should have come first. These are mindless people who love to make political gain when none exist. They are willing to sell their patrimony for a morsel of porridge. I read him also accusing Oshiomhole of abusing Benin leaders including Chief Igbinedion, the same Hon. Idahosa told us how former governor Lucky Igbinedion sacked him as Commissioner for Information, after which he declared war on that family. Oshiomhole was still at the NLC when Idahosa was abusing Chief Igbinedion, the Esama of Benin. The same with late Chief Anenih of blessed memory. He was pained that former Governor Igbinedion dumped him for Ize-Iyamu, and as a result he declared war on the Igbinedions and Ize-Iyamu. So, why will he now try to use Oshiomhole’s name to settle scores with these same people. He is free to choose his friends without qualms, but he should leave Oshiomhole out of his problems. Benin City was taken over by flood few days ago and people were accusing your boss, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, of not executing the Benin City Water Storm project, after the state got N30 billlion from the stock market for it? Well, those are lies from the pit of hell. Unfortunately, most people parroting this falsehood, know from the bottom of their heart the truth about what was achieved with this laudable project, which is one of the legacies of the Oshiomhole-led administration in Edo State. As a journalist who practiced for over 12 years in Edo State, I recall in 2008, when Comrade Oshiomhole assumed office as Governor of Edo state, many houses in Benin City were submerged, due to the menace of flooding. Lives were lost. I recall on one occasion when a little child died around Aruosa Street, Upper Sakpoba Road, due to the menace of flooding. Oshiomhole paid a visit to the families, where he promised to tackle the problem. It was one of the major problems Oshiomhole met as governor of Edo State. The area called Teachers House was unpassable. The Teachers House around Siluko was abandoned, and over 50 houses around that area were submerged. He was particularly disturbed that this was happening in Edo South; an area that gave him the highest votes. He invited experts to come and help study the topography of Benin City, with a view to finding lasting solution to the problem. He was told that unless that problem is fixed, he will be wasting his time in building any road or embarking on his urban renewal project. The Storm Water Master Plan took about 12 months of study, and was carried out by Eurekon, one of the best companies in the world renowned for handling such projects. The company has handled other projects in Nigeria, including the Lagos Bar Beach problem of the Atlantic sea surges. Eurekon, the South African company recruited over 400 surveyors on the ground in Edo State, doing topography mapping just to profile water-flow, establish watersheds and determine the final flood water destination during the rains in Benin. They identified Ikpoba River Ogba as where the water will be channeled. However, the study showed that three quarter of flood waters end up in Ogba River, because of the topography, as water does not flow up, but downwards. If it must be made to flow up, then mechanical devices – pump and constant power – would be needed. What Oshiomhole’s government did was to identify the lowest point in Benin, where water could flow and where eventually it would end. Following the study, the administration identified a two-pronged approach, which was adopted. First, government looked at the low-hanging fruits: there were areas where former two-time governor of old Bendel state, the late Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia had put some underground drains. Focusing on those areas, Oshiomhole put drains that would connect to those undergrounds constituting the primary drains that de-flood the city. The secondary drains on the sides of the roads that are visible to the eyes are only ancillary in the process and to protect the roads. If there are no primary drains to which they are connected, the flood problem would be transferred from one area to another. Significantly, Oshiomhole’s administration confronted the expensive nature of the primary drains, and for instance, constructed underground drains on the Airport Road, that were as deep as 22 feet. That administration Constructed an open concrete canal of about 45 feet wide and 15 feet deep, covering a distance of 7.5 kilometers. Construction of a network of covered concrete tributary of smaller canals, covering over 7.8 kilometers. The reclamation and reconstruction of nine intra-city roads, with side-drains, walkways, street lights and lawns. Let me also tell you that underground tunnels that cars can comfortably drive on if they were not covered were part of this project.